ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e1651	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 178. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocol of 177. Meeting of 30 March 1990 In October 2012, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Josef Auer, Hakel, Fürntrath-Moretti, Mag. Ikrath, Clickovits, Mag. Lettenbichler, Mag. Honey, Grosz, Kößl, Pack and Neubauer. [[10:16:01]] Communication on the establishment of a new parliamentary club
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e1688	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In October 2012, I was announced to MEPs Hagen, Lugar, Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Markowitz and Tadler to set up a new parliamentary club “Team Stronach für Österreich”. As a preliminary question for the steps to be taken by me in the event of the emergence of a new parliamentary club, I have now had to examine the legality of this club on the basis of the relevant rules, namely the Federal Constitutional Act and the National Council's Rules of Procedure. I conducted this examination – as my predecessor Heinz Fischer did in 1993 on the occasion of the foundation of the "Liberales Forum" club – on the basis of opinions and opinions of the Parliamentary Directorate and the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service and in-depth discussions at the Presidential Conference, in particular on 30 June. October and today. The then President of the National Council is at the meeting of the Presidential Conference on 19 February. February 1993 – I quote literally – came to the conviction, ‘that the arguments against the admissibility of the constitution of this club, compared with the pro arguments, as contained in various opinions, do not have the weight to decide to call the constitution unlawful or unconstitutional, and it will proceed in the handling of the standards to be implemented by it in this sense’. In the meantime, the Constitutional Court has also dealt directly and indirectly with questions of the regulatory admissibility of a club during a legislative period, confirming, or assuming, the decision taken in 1993 as correct. Against this background and also taking into account the fact that the current re-education of a club in a current legislative period differs in a number of points from the constellation in 1993 – I only remember that the founding members of this club did not differ at the same time and with quite different points. I have come to believe that these actual differences are not significant in the sense that they would be allowed to come to a different assessment than in 1993. This conclusion is also shared by the large majority – not one-bright, but by the large majority – of the members of the Presidential Conference. So I can confirm that the National Council belongs to a sixth club, the parliament club “Team Stronach for Austria”. I have allocated provisional seats to the members of the new club in plenary and reserve a final decision on the future seat order, which I will discuss again as usual in the presidential conference. I have been informed by the new club that it still wants to be represented in some of its main committees during the current legislative period. The other clubs have signaled me their willingness to do so so, so that I assume that after the talks still to be held for the committees concerned, we will be able to make a new election at one of the next meetings of the National Council. Furthermore, I would like to ask all the clubs to include the necessary talks for the integration of the new club into parliamentary work, in particular for the distribution of speaking time, as soon as possible – it is agreed to lead to a good outcome after the final parliamentary deliberations on the 2013 budget – and to a successful outcome. I would like to conclude by thanking all the clubs and, in particular, the members of the Presidential Conference for the constructive atmosphere in solving this certainly not simple legal question. In this context, I can also report that, as already in 1993, the most relevant standard of § 7 of the National Council's Rules of Procedure – as already in 1993 – is generally regarded as not sufficiently accurate and not meaningful – is included. There is therefore agreement between the members of the Presidential Conference to update this provision of the Rules of Procedure in the current legislative period with a view to establishing a clear rule on club formation. I encourage all parliamentary parties to enter into negotiations quickly and contribute to a positive conclusion. [[10:21:37]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e1765	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:21:47]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e1954	Mr Pilz, fellow Members, asked for urgent consideration of the written question 12992/J tabled at the beginning of the meeting by Dr Pilz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Justice on political corruption in Austria. [[10:22:08]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e1976	In addition, in accordance with § 33 para., Members of Parliament have Petzner, colleagues and colleagues. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigation committee on the emergency nationalisation of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank, municipal credit Austria AG and Österreichischer Volksbanken-AG. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after consideration of the urgent question. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. The meeting will be held live on ORF 2 from 13.15 a.m. to 15.10 a.m. and on ORF III. I shall interrupt the sitting until 1/15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2025	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:17:13]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Justice on political corruption in Austria (12992/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2063	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 12992/J. In the meantime, this has been done by all the Members of Parliament, so there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2495	I give the floor to Mr Dr Pilz as the first questioner to justify the question. In accordance with § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure do not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2518	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I welcome the fact that this is the case and because we are a particularly polite group, another new group, a new club in this House, and that is a very special club, because this is my knowledge of the first club in the history of the Austrian Parliament, which not only has Members, not just a clubman, but even a owner. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Call:But no voters]] I hope for Members, for colleagues in this club, that the owner does not deal with them as with other parts of his property. [[Call:As with the “Austria”]] You have the chance that you will be fed and brushed regularly. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I wish you all the best, and I promise you that, next time we discuss the issue of Eurofighter in a committee of inquiry in this House, we will also consider together the activities of the Magna Group in this context, and will also report together on all suspicions relating to corruption by Magna Boards in connection with Eurofighter. I also wish that this would be a little different from that of this committee of inquiry. It is likely that a next Eurofighter Examining Committee would also be extremely successful, but the National Council's Rules of Procedure would apply to everyone. And in the Rules of Experience for Parliamentary Examining Committees of this House, ladies and gentlemen, § 26 states: ‘The Examining Committee shall report to the National Council on the basis of the evidence carried out.’ It does not say that he may be allowed to report, but says: “Feed back a report to the National Council. ” And on top of that: ‘In addition to the course of the procedure and the evidence received, the report shall, in any event, include a description of the facts found, where appropriate, evidence and, finally, the outcome of the investigation.’ That's an order! In a committee of inquiry, no one can choose whether to report or not. The submission of a report by a committee of inquiry is a legal obligation which applies to all members of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And now I am asking the ladies and gentlemen of the government – not just Mr Pendl, not only Mr Amon: Why didn't you meet your legal obligation? Why did you prevent a report from being submitted in this House by the Committee of Inquiry to clarify and then discuss corruption accusations? Why did you prevent – as you both and many others say – the most successful investigative committee from reporting on its success to the National Council's plenary session? [[The speaker referred to Mr Pendl and Mr Amon.]] In my opinion, the answer lies in the possible report itself. The success of the investigative committee has also made you think about it, because you have found that not any evidence has been raised, but that evidence has been collected and abuses involving four parties: the ÖVP, the FPÖ, the BZÖ and also the SPÖ. But it was only SPÖ and ÖVP, the two government parties, who took a follow-up and turned off the investigation committee. And that is why we – and we are unfortunately the only group – have said: Okay, if all the other Members, all the other political groups, do not comply with this legal obligation, we will do so. [[Abg. Strache:... Deputies rosary... orally presented!]] We shall present this House with a final report which is not an official final report of the Committee of Inquiry, but which, I hope, is a summary of our main results, according to best knowledge and conscience. That is this report, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker holds a paper convoluted in height]] That's 680 pages about corruption in Austria. These are 680 pages on covered party financing for ÖVP, FPÖ, BZÖ and SPÖ. These are 680 pages about the successful purchase of parties, of representatives and of government members. These are 680 pages about how a large company, namely Telekom Austria AG, has hidden and illegally financed parties and has tried to buy itself laws. These are 680 pages on the abuse of the privatisation of public property, namely the BUWOG, the federal apartments, by a finance minister and his possible fellow perpetrators. These are 680 pages on public procurement, on government radio, but also on consultants, on sham contracts, on sham accounts, on sham reports, on lobbyists, on networks, on networks in which the same people can always be found: Mr. Meischberger, Mr. Hochegger, Mr. Mensdorff-Pouilly – and the members of the Federal Government who have probably not only been able to influence ideas from these rulers. And because we don't want this anymore and because we have to end corruption, we have presented this report. [[the speaker shall keep them up to date]] This report, ladies and gentlemen, is – probably not the intention of the National Council plenary session – a representative sample of corruption in Austria. It was a selection that we all met together, where we did not ask ourselves at the time: Is this representative for corruption?, but where we have said we agree on seven issues of proof. In retrospect, with this sample we have very, very carefully examined, we can not only present for the first time a report on a system of corruption in Austria, but we can also report how this system is going through the whole Republic at the federal level and probably at the level of many countries and perhaps cities. The most important thing about corruption is not that it is politically or criminally worrying, but rather that it is a systematic political destruction of future opportunities. If in black and blue governments the Republic of Austria has been damaged by privatization, corruption, the machinations of ÖVP, liberties and BZÖ ministers by up to €10 billion, then it is €10 billion that is missing today – for schools, for universities, for care, for the ecologisation of the economy, for a new traffic system. These €10 billion are missing, and we will get back to the budget debate, how bitter we are missing this money. How can honest and decent majority in this Republic not know what happens to their taxpayers, but to know only one thing: As long as all this is not stopped, the taxpayers do not know how much of their taxes flow in dark, in black, in blue, in orange, and unfortunately also in red channels. You only know one thing: it happens. You know it happens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] Today, if we take stock of the fact that only with regard to Deutsche Telekom, the ÖVP has received €1.6 million over various channels, the BZÖ has received €1.6 million and the FPÖ has received some € 750 000, the SPÖ has, by the way, received about € 100 000 over the delegation Gartlehner, then the question of distribution keys – not only after the division of power among black, blue and orange, but also about the distribution of lubricating money among black, blue and orange. That, ladies and gentlemen, we had to investigate these patterns of corruption – and we have also successfully examined them, only: This cannot be the end of the investigations. Everyone here in the house and all those who watch or listen to today know when a corruption case is over, we are already in the next position. I ask you: How do you imagine that we are now working on Eurofighter? This is no longer about a few 100 000 € lubricating money, and this is the case – and the public prosecutor's office Vienna notes – of 180 million €. At €180 million! And where does the first political trail lead? – After Klagenfurt to Dr. Haider. [[Call the BZÖ:Go! Go!]] Again the same as with the Lakeside Foundation, as with the citizenship: cashing, devoting a part to the purpose and additional € 1 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] But Dr. Haider and the Carinthian BZÖ or the FPÖ or what that was then will not have been the only ones. [[Call:That's all been examined.]] We are now at one point, and this must be done at the end of a committee of inquiry, where one not only draws a balance, not only talks about a system, not only about successful information, but also asks: So, and what political consequences are there now? How will Austria be governed in the future and where and how will not only anti-corruption laws be passed in Austria in the future? And here I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and SPÖ, a question: Should and can Austria continue to be ruled by a federal chancellor accused by prosecutors? Can Austria continue to be co-ruled by a State Secretary after whom the prosecutor is advocating? Can Austria continue to be governed by an infrastructure minister, who is already a case for the public prosecutor's office? And does not the same apply to an environmental, agricultural and forestry ministers Berlakovich, against whom the public prosecutor also determines and which is also a case for criminal justice? How do you imagine, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, that Austria is being ruled? Should we simply extend the government bank to an indictment bank so that, if an indictment occurs, the rulers do not have to move too far? Is it really true that a federal chancellor who runs away from Parliament, who is not even brave enough to be politically responsible here, where members of the government have traditionally and on the basis of our federal constitution, that he is not responsible and says: My club, my party won't let me, I'm the hostage of my party, I can't go to Parliament!Unknown term type: "%s".? Should Austria continue to be governed by such members of the government? Is that possible at all? Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, perhaps this is your motive or one of your motives that this Committee of Inquiry has been turned off: because you have precisely known that if we all present a report together and only close to what is in it in this report, you will only ask one question, namely the question of personal political responsibility. [[The speaker shows]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] You obviously wanted to avoid this question and the answers to this question at any price. One last thing about this report: There has already been an interest – I have always observed the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ – in the absence of a majority report, because then there would have been a risk that there would have been a minority report, then there would have been a risk that at least one of the opposition parties, but perhaps everyone together would return their report. You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, have obviously believed that you can prevent a report from seeing a report on the great successes and intelligence of the Committee of Inquiry not only to Parliament but also to the public. And because we do not want you to prevent this, and because we want to publish these results not only in the middle of Parliament, but here in the middle of Parliament, we will today bring this report by the Greens on corruption into the debate as a motion for a resolution. I'll tell you one thing: There is not only what we have publicly in the Committee, but of course there is everything that was available to us because of the files and documents. This is absolutely essential for a very important reason: because it was also the intention of SPÖ and ÖVP not to have to discuss any serious acts which have not yet been discussed in the Committee. They wanted to go back to the fact that the Committee has received all documents – at least until a certain date – and all the files. However, we can guarantee you that the publication of which you wanted to prevent is now in place in this report and is now publicly available everywhere. If you want to censor us, you can't censor us. If you want to undo educational results, you can no longer do that. As an opposition, we in this National Council have the means to fight corruption and to resolve corruption in addition to the Committee of Inquiry. Finally, a fundamental point: Many of you rightly say that Austria is a beautiful and rich country. Ms. Justice Minister, especially in a beautiful and rich country, it is necessary that every question about his politicians be answered in detail. We ask you today: What members of the government are there pending criminal proceedings for corruption crimes? To which Members of the National Council are there pending proceedings for corruption crimes? What members of national governments are there comparable procedures against? So how corrupt is this Republic from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice and the public prosecutors? I hope you don't hide behind provisions that don't exist at all. Today, every journalist/judgment has the right to call the public prosecutor's office in Vienna and to ask whether a criminal trial is being conducted against a particular person as an accused/accusing person. Every human being has the right to receive an answer. And if this applies to all the citizens of this Republic – I should like to draw your attention to it, Mrs Minister of Justice – this applies in particular to this House. I expect you to list today and report on the state of the proceedings. Not only about the procedures where we say: Yes, there are lawyers and prosecutors doing quite excellent work!, but also about those who do not go further, who are disabled, such as the Enlightenment of Telekom East Businesses and the entire complex Sleep, where the suspicion is in the room that Mr. Sleepf is a pure strawman for organized Russian crime and has given the impression that an Austrian investor and not a Russian great criminal with Telekom Austria in Causa Bulgaria is making business. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right! Yes, I do!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] This Republic has a right to learn – in Parliament and before the criminal justice – whether organised Russian crime is already under the eyes of Austrian banks and with the help of Head of the economic police here could do business about strawmen like Martin Schlaff with Telekom Austria AG, and she has a right to know why through the ÖIAG to the Ministry of Finance has failed to complete control. If organized crime can once enjoy such broad support – up to an ex-ÖVP observer – then it is high time that it is determined that it will be investigated, that it will be clarified and that consequences will be drawn. Last comment, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, we live in a beautiful and rich land. We live in a country where huge numbers of skilled people and incredibly highly qualified people work, learn, study and pay their taxes regularly, on time and precisely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And that is why it is only very difficult to bear the impression that these people have to get the impression that there is a certain group of politicians who still believe that they can judge it, who still believe that they can lead as accused federal governments, who still believe that they can turn off parliamentary investigations that still believe that a confession against corruption is sufficient to continue as one has done in this Republic for decades and decades. This investigation committee was a success – but it will only be a real success if political culture in this republic changes when politically responsible ministers and ministers against whom there is as much as Werner Faymann, against Josef Ostermayer and against Nikolaus Berlakovich have political and personal consequences if there are laws on the basis of which it is ensured that prosecutors are allowed to pursue illegal party funding and if there is a change in political culture if there is for the first time not only a common lip commitment of five parties, but joint investigation work, common anti-corruption legislation and a common clean political start in that republic. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] And first of all, we want to contribute to this green report on the Committee of Inquiry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2725	I would like to stick to this point – but this is well known to everyone – that § 24 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure for the Examining Committee clearly state that publication and quotation from files from the Examining Committee, namely from those transmitted by public authorities, is not possible and cannot be published. I'm saying it right in the middle of the good order. In response to the question, the Federal Minister for Justice has reported itself. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e2756	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Let me get to the bottom of one: Corruption must be fought decisively and vigorously! Quite frankly, and without wishing to take the decision by the prosecutors or the courts here: I am really shocked at what has happened in recent years! In all these cases, I follow a very clear line: It must be clarified without regard to the person. It simply must not make any difference against which person is determined, especially in those cases where people of public life are involved. There's one thing for me: There will be no special treatment. It is a personal, a very essential concern to help the prosecutors and courts to really solve all cases of criminal relevance. High house! Corruption hurts the rule of law and therefore the foundation of our society quite massively. It is not only economic damage, it is the economic disadvantages that are being done, it is a lot more. It is also a question of ensuring that the people's confidence in politics and in justice is at stake. And this very confidence is one of the highest goods in a functioning democracy. People in our country must be able to rely on politics. People in this country must also be able to rely on the effectiveness of justice, they must be able to rely fully on it. Justice is one of the central pillars of our rule of law, and I therefore see it as one of the most pressing tasks for me as Minister of Justice to strengthen the confidence of citizens in justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the fight against corruption, justice and politics must, in so far as it is a task of policy to create the framework conditions necessary to enable public prosecutors and courts to carry out their tasks in independent jurisdiction, and to carry out these tasks without any influence. The Parliamentary Investigation Committee here in the House has played an important role in the past few months because it was able not only to build on the activities of the public prosecutors but also to make the results of their investigations transparent. At the same time, the investigative committee – and I would like to thank all its members and also the chairmen for this – was borne from the outset by the spirit of cooperation with the prosecutor. This highlighted the different tasks and made them clear. The principles of the file request and the practice of charging and surveying persons have allowed the activities of the investigative committee to be the successful investigation of the prosecution has not threatened. Fortunately, it has been shown that joint solutions have been found which at least have not inhibited the investigations of the prosecutors. For this reason, I would also like to stress that, from the point of view of my ministry, the Committee of Inquiry has really worked well with the judiciary. At the same time, however, it was also important for me to support the Committee on Inquiry from the Ministry of Justice as much as possible. For example, I should like to mention that a total of around 1.6 million pages of files and 1.7 terabytes have been sent to Parliament. The problem of parallel investigations by the Justice and the Investigation Committee with regard to the disclosure of investigational tactics has been mitigated, although from a legal point of view I would also like to point out that respect for defence rights and the requirement of equality of arms in such a situation are, of course, very special challenges. Nevertheless, I believe that it has succeeded in highlighting the different objectives of the investigations. The clarification of criminal responsibility may be done solely by the judicial system, while Parliament has the political responsibility to clarify. I would also like to draw attention to this difference in today's reply to the question. It is a question of preventing any appearance of political influence on the independent perception of judicial activity from taking the approach. As Minister of Justice, I am of course committed to the law and to the law. This respect for the law forbids me to disclose details from the investigations of the public prosecutor's office here at the public meeting. The fact that the prosecution procedure is not public has good reasons and I am of course not entitled to interrupt it. It is about safeguarding the rights of the parties involved and their right to an undiminished and fair assessment of the outcome of the negotiations. Here I have to respect fundamental legal positions which are repeatedly secured, such as through the fundamental right to the protection of personal data or the right to respect for private and family life. These include, in particular, the requirements arising from the principle of presumption of innocence and from the procedure as a whole. Finally, I must also mention the limits of my inconsistency on ongoing investigations. The management of the investigations is under the control of the prosecutors under the control of the court. My task, and therefore the area of my ministerial responsibility, is to preserve the uniform application of law and the proper application of the formal and material law. In other words: My task is focused on the control of results, but this also means that I am not informed of every step of the process, which in fact makes it impossible for me to answer the questions addressed to me in a comprehensive manner. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we agree that corruption is not a cavalier offence. That is why, from the very beginning, I have been very much committed to strengthening the right of corruption. The work in the Committee of Inquiry was also so important and valuable, because it clearly identified the abuses and thus made us all aware of the clearly necessary and existing need for action. This awareness-building is Thanks also to the fact that my ambitious objective of implementing the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Council of States against corruption could be achieved by unanimously adopting the 2012 National Council's Law on Corruption, which was adopted unanimously after a very short, intensive and truly well-founded discussion. But not only in the field of criminal law, but also in the practice of combating corruption, we have made considerable progress in Austria lately. The economic and corruption prosecutorship, almost our special unit in the fight against corruption and economic crime, has proved to be extremely effective. The alliance of expertise in this field and the pool of experts, which is available to the prosecutors of the local economic and corruption prosecutors, enables a targeted and extremely efficient approach. With 1. In September, their skills have now been expanded as planned, which is why I have of course used vehemently for a staff increase. And this commitment to a staff increase was also successful. For the fight against corruption alone, there will be almost 30 new sites in the future, and further expansions will also be made in the field of experts. I think that this investment is necessary and useful even in times of saving. An effective fight against corruption also makes Austria more economically successful in the long term – quite apart from the legitimate expectation of the population in terms of propriety and cleanliness in public action and in the economy. In addition to the staffing of the Public Prosecutor's Office for Economic and Corruption, I am of course also very concerned about the creation of extensive training and training measures. It has been shown that sound legal training alone is not sufficient for the treatment of complex economic procedures, but it also needs an economic know-how to solve these cases in the field of economic criminal law. It is only with the necessary understanding of economic and business processes and contexts that it is possible to judge economic criminal matters legally as well. Ladies and gentlemen! With the novelle of corruption law, the extension of the economic and corruption prosecutor's office, but also the transparency package, the new lobbying law and the party financing law, we have created framework conditions for transparency and honesty in politics and the economy, and finally, framework conditions for social change. Public administration should be guided by propriety, honesty and morality. Of course, it was also necessary to create clear and unmistakable standards. The work of the Committee of Inquiry has confirmed the importance and correctness of all these legal innovations. High house! I now come to answer the individual questions of the urgent question. Questions 1 to 7: The questions refer here to the clarification of the performance of payments without comprehensible consideration, the activity of lobbyists, consultants and intermediaries, as well as related payments, the transfer of payments to politicians and those related natural or legal persons, as well as, directly or indirectly, to parties and the direct influence on the development of laws and regulations in ministries by the Telekom Group and related payments. These are several procedural complexes which are currently subject to extensive investigations by the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna and which concern a wide variety of accused persons and facts. You will understand that I cannot present a detailed report on the state of the proceedings here. As far as I am concerned, the following complexes are to be mentioned, and I must also ensure that further investigations are not jeopardised or that understanding and delivery obligations to the parties involved are not circumvented. There is the fact that Deutsche Telekom payments to the Valora or the Valora. This is a procedure of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna for suspicion of infidelity according to § 153 StGB or the money laundering according to § 165 StGB. Investigations continue. A degree can not yet be estimated. Fact payment of Telekom to Dr. Hochegger Kommunikationberatungs GmbH: There is a trial under way by the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office. Fact settlement payments: This is a procedure of the Procuratorate of Vienna for contributing to unfaithfulness through the execution of an additional “handling” of € 585 600 on Euro RSCG Vienna GmbH, which is currently subject to an examination by the Procuratorate of Vienna, whose outcome I do not wish to anticipate. The same applies to the fact that Deutsche Telekom's payments to the mediaConnection, proceedings of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna for infidelity by paying an amount of € 600 000 from Telekom to the mediaConnection and related false statements before the investigation committee. Factim Universal Service Regulation – Electoral Force Donation to the BZÖ: This is a procedure of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna, in which it has a project report of 4. In October 2012, I submitted a review of the subject-matter of the law, which I do not wish to prejudge. The suspicion of infidelity is examined, partly as contributors due to payments made by Telekom to advertising agency forging of €720 000 and power. Haslinger, amounting to € 240 000 for the BZÖ election campaign in September 2006, as well as related false statements before the Examining Committee. The project report concerns as accused magistrate. Rudolf Fischer, Dr. Peter Hochegger, Klaus Wittauer, Kurt Schmied, Mag. Tina Haslinger and Christoph Pöchinger as well as Arno Eccher for money laundering as well as fishermen, Hochegger, Wittauer and Eccher for false statement before the investigation committee. I now come to questions 8 to 14: Currently, a procedure is pending at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna for payments by Telekom Austria AG to the company Holdenhurst and Robicom GmbH, each to a maximum of one million euros, in connection with an acquisition in Belarus, which is against seven accused, namely Mag. Rudolf Fischer, Stefano Colombo, Mag. Erich Gnad, Mag. Martin Schlaef, Mag. Boris Nemsic, Mag. Gernot Schieszler, Robert Nowikovsky, due to § 153 para. 1 and 2, second case of StGB, or contribution to it. The investigations are ongoing, a conclusion is currently not foreseeable. Another investigation procedure is pending with the Public Prosecutor's Office. It concerns the allegation of the expropriation of approximately 358 mil. billions of € from the Republic of Serbia by means of an alleged non-existent society for a non-owned share of mobtel. The procedure is against four defendants, namely Mag. Martin Schlaff, Michael Hazon, Dr. Josef Taus, Dr. Herbert Cordt, because of serious fraud, infidelity, money laundering and bribery. The investigations are completed. A procedural finalisation is expected in the foreseeable future. Questions 15 to 21: In summary, I can handle the legal charges in the fact of course manipulation, proceedings of the public prosecutor's office in Vienna against Mag. Rudolf Fischer, Dr. Stefano Colombo and Heinz Sundt, Mag. Josef Trimmel and Power. Johann Wanovits for Infidelity, partly as contributors report. The date of the main proceedings is not yet fixed. Questions 22 to 28: The Factim Nordbergstraße is determined by the Public Prosecutor's Office for Economic and Corruption. In summary, it concerns the performance of commission payments in connection with the handling of the sale and rental of the Superädificate Nordbergstraße, the owner of which was Deutsche Telekom. ==References== On October 3, 2003, the Super-Edificate was €30,522 million from Telekom Austria AG and €3. November 2003 the property was purchased by the Austrian Bundesbahnen from SOREG Beteiligungsverwaltungs GmbH at the total purchase price of €34,622 million. As a result, according to the fund brochure of the Bankhaus Wölbern, the entire property had been resold by around €49.97 million. Reimbursements of renovations at the building will also be checked after transfer to the disadvantage of Telekom AG. It is determined against a total of seven accused persons, namely Walter Meischberger, Ernst Pelech, Stefano Colombo, Wolfgang Frauenholz, Anton Kallinger, Birgit Wagner and Erich Zanoni, for § 153 StGB. A conclusion of the investigations is expected in spring 2013. On questions 29 to 35: This is the WKStA procedure for awarding to Lehman Brothers and selling the federal housing companies, in which about 20 persons are held as accused, namely Grasser, Meischberger, Plech, Hochegger, responsible for Immofinanz and Raiffeisenlandesbank Oberösterreich, because of §§ 153, 304, 307 StGB, i.e. infidelity, bribery, bribery. The completion of the investigations depends on the length of the investigation or on the outcome of various legal aid proceedings. On questions 36 to 42: At present, criminal proceedings relating to the cases examined by the investigative committee as a subject of evidence 3 are pending the award of the digital government radio at StA Wien. In this, payments from Telekom Austria AG, Motorola GmbH and Alcatel-Lucent AG to Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly will be charged to companies in the direction of § 153 para. 1 and 2, second case, StGB examined. The accused are four persons, Alfonso Mensdorff-Pouilly, May. Gernot Schieszler, Mag. Rudolf Fischer, Mag. Harald Himmer. Investigations continue. A degree is currently not to be cancelled. I come to questions 43 to 49: Yes, a case at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna is pending with the following partial aspects: I come to the first partial aspect of the advertising facts and start here with ASFINAG AG. On the one hand, this is about the magazine “GEWINN. ” In the July/August 2007 issue, a two-sided article entitled “New Roads to Neighbors” was published. The original order confirmation of the magazine “GEWINN” from 21st January. On June 25, 2007, addressed to ASFINAG AG “hands Alois Schedl” on June 25, 2007. In June 2007, ASFINAG AG received the note “Your order: according to Mr. Faymann”. Then I come to the daily “Small Newspaper”. ==References== In this daily newspaper, “The Future of Mobility, New Ideas Ensuring the Progress on the Roads of Tomorrow”, a 16-page supplement on the topics “New Construction Projects of the ASFINAG in the Styria and Carinthia, Construction Sommer, Completion of the Pack Autobahn, Rest Stations in Styria and in Carinthia, Transport Safety Initiative and Transport Telematics in Austria” was published on July 9. In the file note of ASFINAG AG on this media connection of 23. In July 2007, it was stated that this media cooperation had been completed by the then cabinet of accused Werner Faymann, thus by the accused Dr. Josef Ostermayerin in the form that a cost key of €3 020, thus totaling €48 317,17, and the billing to ASFINAG AG had been agreed. Newspaper ‘Austria’: In 2007, ASFINAG AG commissioned the advertising agency Rock & Comp GmbH to make investments totalling €441 023,03 net. Newspaper “Today”: According to the UCOM Act of 26. In June 2007, the accused Werner Faymann, in turn by the accused Dr. Josef Ostermayer, concluded and agreed on a media cooperation in “Live”, a supplement to the newspaper in the form of an 8-page printing line on the topics “Regionenring Vienna, Research and Development, Transport Telematics in Austria, A6- Spange Kittsee, EU lines to the new Member States”. The invoice is to be made to ASFINAG AG. This brings me to ÖBB Holding AG and the magazine “GEWINN”. In the July/August 2007 issue, a two-sided article entitled “Everything on Rail” was published. The order confirmation of the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website Walter Sattlberger, of the time Head of the Group Communication, was addressed and listed the note “Your order: according to Mr. Faymann”. The ‘VOR Magazine’: In June 2007 and December 2007, two articles were published in this magazine. “NEWS” magazine: ==References== In June 2007, a 24-page special supplement with the title “The Gate to Europe, Vienna Central Station, all about the new transport hub” was published. By e-mail of 1. In September 2008, the then head of the advertising department of NEWS Mag. Sattlberger informed this 16- This was done in close cooperation with Thomas Landgraf of BMVIT and the Ministry had promised a cost contribution of € 58 000 net. Other media connections: In the Executive Board decision of ÖBB Holding AG of 11. ==References====External links== Walter Sattlberger submitted to the Executive Board a request for a decision on the amount of €1.5 million under the passages “Bereff” and “Saxony” “Media Cooperations via BMVIT”. However, the request had been further amended in the light of the fact that it had been amended under the passage “Concerning media cooperation on the framework projects” and under the passage “Saxony: In connection with the planned and to be realized framework projects (Koralmbahn, Lainzer Tunnel et cetera), PR cooperations with the media listed below are carried out for sustainable information and image improvement; this is done in the form of either PR-moderately prepared advertisements or thematic supplements, projects and topics are specifically matched to the individual media’. Newspaper “Kronen Zeitung”: At the end of December 2006/beginning of January 2007, Werner Faymann and Hans Digand agreed that in the “Kronen Zeitung” a 14-day dual-sided engagement on topics of ÖBB Personenverkehr AG will appear for the duration of one year, in which Faymann could also comment as Minister of Transport in a quarter. I now come to the second partial aspect, namely further accusations: Call for increased print advertising under threat of dismissal: Dr. Stefan Wehinger, on the occasion of his Witness's receipt, dated 6. In October 2011, the accused Dr. Josef Ostermayerhabe contacted him several times in 2007 in connection with the then television advertising of ÖBB Personenverkehr AG, presented it as absurd and asked him to “put more money into the print advertising.” In the case of these telephone calls, he accused the accused Ostermayer of doing so, and he finally said that “he is still in the position of the Board of Directors of ÖBB Personenverkehr AG in connection with his cooperation in such matters”. A total of 13 persons were accused, namely Werner Faymann, Dr. Josef Ostermayer, Mag. Martin Huber, Mag. Erich Söllinger, Mag. Christian Trattner, Dipl.-Ing. Franz Lückler, Ing. Mathias Reichhold, Mag. Walter Sattlberger, Mag. Miriam Mang, Mag. Johannes Kasal, Ing. Franz Nigl, Dipl.-Ing. Alois Schedl and Dr. Klaus Schierhackl, because of § 153 para. 1 and 2 StGB. Further investigations are currently being carried out within the meaning of the adoption of the Federal Ministry of Justice of the 14th century. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the aid granted to BMVIT, ÖBB and ASFINAG is compatible with the internal market. A degree is not yet forecast. Questions 50 to 57: Yes, two cases at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. The following partial aspects are examined: To Mrs. Bures: An anonymously transmitted list of the costs of advertising calls would show a leap increase in expenditure in 2009 to 2011. The attached invoices and the ‘votum’ of Dr. Christa Bernert indicate that BMVIT did not negotiate any discounts in 2009 to 2011 and that no Sconti has taken advantage of this, which is why the best possible conditions have not been used. The status is as follows: The request was sent to BMVIT to provide supporting documents. Then the suspicion of infidelity in connection with the tendering and award of the production of the advertising spot “Alcohol at the tax” in 2009: Among other things, Vienna Nordbahn Werbagentur GmbH and Lowe GKK Werbagentur GmbH would have participated in this. The procedure is in the initial stage. At present, BMVIT was invited to submit the supporting documents. I will now come to Mr Berlakovich. On the basis of the Court of Auditors' report, there is a suspicion that in the case of audited legal transactions (insects) a hidden financing of the Farmers' Federation, a sub-organisation of the ÖVP, was in the foreground. The Court of Auditors was asked to submit the Court of Auditors report. The proceedings are against three defendants, namely Federal Minister Doris Bures, Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll and Federal Minister Nikolaus Berlakovich, because of § 153 StGB. BMVIT and BMfLF are affected by the investigations. On questions 58 to 64: At present, a criminal proceedings in connection with the cases of the attempted influence on gambling legislation examined by the investigative committee as a theme 6 is pending at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. Another procedure is carried out by StA Salzburg for payment of an amount of CASAG to the Orange Advertising Agency. The Vienna Procuratorate investigates the suspicion of bribery/gifting of Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser in return for the modification of the gambling law in 2006. Walter Meischberger and Mag become accused. Karl-Heinz Grasser led by §§ 302, 304, 307 StGB. At present, the expert Dr. Kopetzky checks whether cash flows from Walter Meischberger and 1040 GmbH to Mag. Mr Grasser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. Altenberger for BUWOG. A conclusion of the investigations is expected in the first half of 2013. In the case of the Salzburg Public Prosecutor's Office, the deputies become the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthalerand Leopold Wallner led as accused for §§ 153 and 308 StGB. The investigations are still ongoing, and the time for procedural finalisation cannot at present be estimated in a serious way. Questions 65 to 71: There are three procedures, namely the Economic and Corruption Procuratorship, the OLG Graz and the State Court for Criminal Matters Vienna, because of the suspicion of prohibited intervention in connection with the award of citizenship to four foreign interested parties, the claim for an advantage for party opinion or the granting of an advantage for party treatment of the application for citizenship of two foreign stakeholders against a total of seven accused persons, namely Gerald Matt and Dr. Horst Lumper, Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch as well as Alexey Bobrov, Artem Bikov, Mag. Helmut Seitz and Franz Koloini, because of forbidden intervention, gift acceptance conducted by officials or arbitrators, bribery and money laundering. The investigations are completed. A procedural finalisation is expected in the foreseeable future. A procedure is in the stage of appeal, another in the second instance in the first instance. On questions 72 to 78: A procedure will be carried out at the public prosecutor's office in Vienna for the following partial aspects: First, I come to the basic suspicion. Substantial amounts were made available for the fulfilment of the counter-business obligation of the Contracting Partner Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug GmbH agreed on in the purchase contract. These have been forwarded to not yet known decision-makers or officials after assignment of the counter-business obligation to EADS through a company construction and various subbrokers, which are expected to be lubricating payments. I now come to the second part of the issue, namely “Project Lakeside and Spielberg”. First, Lakeside. Lakeside Science & Technology Park is a research and technology center on Lake Wörthersee near the University of Klagenfurt. The owner is Lakeside Technology Privatstiftung, whose founder is Scientific Research & Development Ltd. EADS-D has contributed funds to the financing of this project. ==References====External links==* Official website In December 2004, EADS-D paid a fixed monthly amount of €30 000 for this project. The background to this payment obligation is unknown. In any event, the project was not submitted to BMWA as a counter-business, although it is referred to in the contract as “Special Offset Project”. The Lakeside project is also mentioned from documents secured by Gianfranco Lande regarding alleged counter-businesses, where the “subjects concerned” are mentioned as vectors and the EBD. The extent to which the EBD was involved in this project is also unclear at present. According to these documents, Vector also received an amount of €4 million as a “Credit for Lakeside Technologies”. Second aspect: Spielberg. Furthermore, between EADS-D and Vector for a “Spielberg” project, a payment of a “non-refundable lump sum” of € 10 million was made. Under the underlying contractual agreement, EADS-D was obliged to participate with third parties in this project with €20 million, which would seem to have been filed unsuccessfully as a counter-action. In return, Vector took over the obligation to develop strategies to free EADS-D from this involvement obligation. The actual economic background for this construction is not known. The trial is against seven accused, namely Alfred Plattner, Dr. Walter Schön, Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Klaus-Dieter Bergner, Dr. Rudolf Lohberger, Frank Walter Petmecky, Klaus Peter Kaindleinsberger and Mag. Dr. Thomas Eidensberger on the grounds of §§ 146, 147 para. 3, 165 para. 1, 2 and 4, 153 para. 1 and 2, 307 para. 2 StGB and § 33 Financial Criminal Law. Last searches were made on the 6th. ==References== The next step in the process is to evaluate the documents secured. On questions 79 to 87: In this connection, I would like to point out that, in the light of the information provided by the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European Communities have held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Evaluation of individual files to answer this question would be necessary, which was not possible for me in the specified time. I gave an instruction in the proceedings dealt with in the previous questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3215	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Total speaking time per club: 25 minutes. The first is Mrs. Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3242	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is right today to have confidence in justice. And very rightly today we need to discuss confidence in politics. Madam President, we are trying to take both tasks seriously. We are making an important contribution to this, just as you, Mrs Karl, have made a very good contribution to a proper response culture today. That's why I applauded you earlier. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now, in my opinion, Parliament has a sort of double balance for the first time. We have been informed in detail by you, Mrs Minister, in various proceedings. We've heard about who's being determined. We have heard to what extent. We have heard the state of play of the procedure. This transparency, which you have demonstrated, was really one thing. It is true, Mrs Minister – you mentioned this at the outset – that the cooperation between the Investigation Committee and the Justice has worked well from my side, from our side and also from the Justitia. We were dependent on each other. We have managed this parallel action, we have been able to deliver results. One of the interim results has been presented today. We, on the other hand, are devoted to political responsibility. And here we also want to fulfil our mandate in this National Council with our Committee balance sheet – I deliberately say, “with our Committee balance sheet”. It has been decided, Madam President, that this committee will be set up, and according to the Rules of Procedure, which have already been quoted, we are talking about reporting. We adhere strictly to the rules of procedure. We didn't facsimile any files. We don't publish any files either. However, we have quotations – quotations, which are used as evidence on behalf of the Committee of Inquiry and which in so far fully comply with the constitutional framework. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I would like to formally present our political part of the double balance sheet as a motion for a resolution today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Madam President, you will receive this comprehensive – 681 pages – report from us personally. We also expect it to be made available to everyone on the Parliament homepage immediately. We would like to make a copy of the report available to each Member, but there are some problems with printing. But we want to establish, as soon as possible during the afternoon as possible, a computerised access to this Green Report – unfortunately, there is no joint report – for each Member. This is our contribution to clarify, discuss and discuss the aspect of political responsibility so far that we finally come to comprehensive political consequences. I should like to refer once again to you, Mrs Rechtsminister, because you said that the framework conditions for justice are the policy. Just as the framework for the laws presupposes policy, so do the laws, just as we, on the one hand, have to deal with politically in this Parliament – I am looking at you, Mr Pendl, in particular – with our very own resources, the Parliamentary Directorate, the many staff in this Parliament, and it is also about providing justice with enough good framework conditions and also financial resources to enable it to work out this whole range of anti-corruption moments in a serious way and to bring it to a serious end. Because that's what it's all about: Finally, people expect not only the political consequences, but above all the criminal consequences. And here it is our duty in this Parliament to ensure that the appropriate financial and human framework conditions are guaranteed, so that what you have been talking about today – this spirit of cooperation you have always mentioned – will become reality and will lead back to a state-of-the-art and trustworthy overall system, where the people can really be sure that if injustice happens, this injustice will be committed; this injustice will not only be suspected, but it will also result in convictions if the rule of law makes sense and is necessary. – So far away from my wait the judicial side. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to the comprehensive political responsibility that I have mentioned several times. We've done exact research. You will also find in our report the many contributions made by individual Members in this committee of inquiry. Starting from A such as Amon to P like Petzner you will find everything quoted here, so that in a summary, which I believe is on legally flawless feet, at any time also the overview of the extensive work of the committee of inquiry is guaranteed. In addition, to facilitate, we have written or compiled a kind of summary which structurally lists exactly where the deficit is structurally located in Austria, so that political corruption is possible, so that criminal corruption is unfortunately also found in the field of tension between politics and the economy. And I particularly recommend this structural composition to you, because here it is a Parliament to hold. As a Parliament, it is important to create better legal frameworks here. We have listed some of the proposals that have been made. Perhaps I can deal with this immediately, because it is a question of learning from what we have now worked out effortlessly, namely, with over 1.6 million file pages being reworked, with a total reference to, I believe, more than 130 employees, in Parliament alone, not fully time-consuming, but only partly peripherally, but after all, half of Parliament has invested time in this research work and in this administrative support of this committee of inquiry. That is why it is so important to me that you get excerpts from the consequences of the same now in summary form presented by us. It is about “corruption – an inventory”. On page 376, I can recommend and quote from you immediately, because there are certainly no parts of the file. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: What now? Is that fungus or yours?]] Now on the recommendations: ‘As a result of the results and experience of the Committee of Inquiry, the following legal measures are essential:’ First Recommendation: ‘Inspection Committee as Minority Law’. There is consensus about this – see SPÖ Party Day – consensus! Let's do it! It is still possible, I believe, certainly until spring. There are not so many points in dispute. Madam President. I would also like to thank you for your initiative, which you have put in the chair in public and also in Parliament. Let us take the reform of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure in combination with the Committee of Inquiry as minority law! If this had been done earlier, we could have carried out investigation committees between 1999 and 2006. Schwarz-Blau has prevented investigation committees, timely investigation committees on the entire privatisation. At that time, control was tied up. You now have the result on 681 pages: late control. Proper intervention, investigation committee as a minority right – then all of this would not have happened. Second recommendation: ‘Judderful criminality of illegal party financing’. Third recommendation: ‘Independent prosecutor’. Fourth recommendation: ‘More means of combating corruption’. Fifth Recommendation: ‘Protection for decks’. As regards a "whistleblower" rule, you have already done work. The procedure we have already decided has been the cornerstone of the investigation procedure of the prosecutor's office throughout the telecoms sector. Sixth recommendation: ‘Novelisation of the award of citizenship in the special interest of the Republic’. Seventh recommendation: ‘Clarification of procurement issues’. This is another reform package that we have to deal with. It is true that we have already worked, say, we have already passed the Media Transparency Act, we have already decided on the transparency package for party funding. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is why everyone here in the National Council is saying that the Committee has been successful. But we must complete it to the fullest extent, to the final success. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] That is why, Madam President, I should also like to personally recommend this report, because we Greens are really taking the orders given to us by Parliament seriously and have thus taken the evidence of the seriousness of our policy in the sense of confidence making. [[Call the BZÖ: Off!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3342	Ladies and gentlemen, I have now given you many minutes. To the application submitted, the following shall be added: This motion for a resolution contains a very broad statement of reasons. You saw it, you heard it. In any event, for reasons of time, it is not possible for me to check immediately whether this statement contains confidential documents from the committee of inquiry. Therefore, as already discussed in detail in the Presidential Conference today, I reserve the right to distance myself from publication on the Internet for the above reasons, following prior information to the members of the Presidential Conference. I assure you: I will not examine this matter more rigorously or strictly than was the case in the past in case of precedents. This request is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. [[Editorial Note: The motion for a resolution is contained in the general explanatory statement in the Parliamentary Directorate; see also p. 32.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3393	Madam President. The ladies Federal Ministers! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I can join my colleague Moser directly because I can join many of what you said here. This was also much more material than what Mr Pilz did in part – one has to say, in particular, on an aspect; I come to it later – here. In fact, this Committee of Inquiry has been a success story. Not only a success story by discovering a variety of things, in cooperation with the prosecutor's office, but also because we have in the meantime passed a series of laws that are unlikely to prevent such a thing from happening in the future – crime can never be completely prevented – but make it much more difficult. We would also have nothing to do with the documents - I can only say this for my group - if we could see them in public, because we are in favour of transparency. There is, of course, data protection, so you have to look at it. We don't know what's inside, but I'm in favour of making the public aware of this as much as possible. On the question, Mr Pilz, whether there was a report or not. We have been sitting here, five quarters of the hours it took when the colleague Rosenkranz of the opposition returned an extremely objective, comprehensive report from my point of view. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] – I rarely get applause from this side. [[Abg. Strache: It rarely happens that you clap!]] We had this report, and I think we have to take note of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] - Yeah, let's put it there. Ladies and gentlemen. The period from 2000 to 2006 was in itself the worst thing you can imagine in the Second Republic. Here we have been looted, almost in the vote. There was even a decision in which, among other things, the then Minister of Finance was also mentioned. Only if I look at – this is also known to the public – that there has been 1 million in revenue on an income tax declaration for more than eight years by then Minister of Finance Grasser – and German Chancellor Schüssel has still been watched – but at the same time Foundation solutions have been built up that have moved more than 8 million in total, I would have liked to know where this money comes from. And we'll hopefully have this resolved by the justice system soon. But you can see on your own how this place has been shut down. All, Rumpold, Meschberger, Plach – mein Ladies and gentlemen, the taxpayer's pockets have been taken in with full hands. So, of course, this was also one of the greatest tax frauds of all time, which is to thank God for being gradually prepared here. Now I also understand those who, in the light of these circumstances, want to experience this horror and, of course, the concern that the people will be able to divert a little bit from all this – and I believe that this should be revealed in the context of transparency. That is why, and I do not understand at all, I have a problem with the fact that the Pilz colleague here today – perhaps for other reasons, the list setting is just happening – pretends to be comparing these criminal cases with media procedures, i.e. things that we have had for decades in this country, which we have been putting off in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen. You just can't compare that. And that is why it is not understandable when more or less attempts are being made to put one step at one level with the other. I would like to say that here with all the vehemence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Whether that is Berlakovich, whether it is the Federal Chancellor, whether it is the State Secretary Ostermayer, who has also been in committee. To this end, I might say the following: The Federal Chancellor does not appear in all these files. What is happening, these are allegations, advertisements that are directed primarily against the State Secretary, and he has also come to the Committee. Therefore, one should also stop with this legend that the wrong people do not come. Ladies and gentlemen. We all know that if someone makes an ad, then this will result in the adjudication being made the next day as an accused person, with the criminal code providing for it because it is true in favour of the person who is shown, because he then has certain rights. Now, in the present case, we are faced with the fact that Mr Vilimsky has returned an advertisement against the Federal Chancellor, an advertisement against State Secretary Ostermayer, and therefore logically he is automatically in accused status. Every one of us facing an ad is in charge status. So if you bring an ad against someone, it will be automatically accused for formal reasons, and if you ask the next day, he must resign because he is accused, then this is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! You have to take note of this in order to understand why all these strange things are happening here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Are these also your arguments in the Carinthian Landtag?]] – This is certainly a very good argument, including content, because it is a formal correct argumentation. Mrs Bundesminister, one thing I would like to say to you, namely that the debate with the ads also has another facet, which may not be known everywhere. They always talk about great confidence in the prosecutor's office, that the prosecutor's office should develop things together with the judiciary. – The Public Prosecutor's Office has considered the advertisements, which are quite different parties, and has proposed to the Public Prosecutor's Office of First Instance, i.e. the Public Prosecutor's Office of Vienna, that the proceedings be terminated. The Vienna Supreme Procuratorate has also submitted this. They then issued an order, and in the files it is documented that the head of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office even refers to the fact that damages relating to them have not occurred, that there is no one who has been seized into the bag, that these accusations are not criminally relevant, in any case civil law. [[Abg. Strache: What's the prosecutor's name? Have you been sitting with that one in the law firm, at Lansky, years ago?]] If you today, Mrs Bundesminister, the first block of this urgent question, namely the scandalous years, the events in the years 2000 to 2006, are devoted in a italic and summary very few words, but also, when it comes to the ads, become very detailed, from my point of view, far more detailed than it would be necessary, then I will be a little bold if I believe that this is objective. You're the head of the prosecutor's office! I'm excited about what's going to happen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3488	Mr Mag. Gerstl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3520	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser requires an intensive discussion on how parliamentarians deal with the rule of law. Madam President Prammer rightly pointed out that § 24 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees provides that all files submitted in the Investigation Committee may not be published. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Right!]] Mrs Glawischnig! In his contribution to the debate, Mr Pilz announced that he would now like to publish points that have not yet been discussed in the Committee of Inquiry and points which have not yet been published. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You could have done this the same with a report!]] Mrs Glawischnig, if you do not allow my colleague Pilz to go into non-legislative elements, do not let yourself be wronged, Mrs Glawischnig. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know very well, Mrs Glawischnig, that is a Rules of Procedure, a Rules of Procedure, of which you are authorised to publish things that the rule of law rightly says that they must not be published, because, as the Minister of Justice has said, it is about accused rights, it is about fundamental state rights, it is about protecting the personal sphere, about protecting the family, it is about the rights of victims, which you obviously do not want to take note of. [[Abg. Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek: Because you are unable to submit a report because you are not willing to submit a report!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: You don't even submit a report, you cover up!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why did you suppress a report?]] In this case, you are not a model of the Greens, because you obviously follow two directions: the one, if you are right, that something is published, and the other, if you are not right. But I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: If you start by granting rights only to more certain persons and not to others, then that is the beginning of the end of the rule of law, and on the other hand, we clearly remember! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Fundamental rights must also not be trampled on by the Greens. That has nothing to do with the Enlightenment, quite the contrary! You can rely on our justice. This has been demonstrated by Carinthia, and this will be shown in those cases which the Federal Minister has referred to in her reply. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Carinthia is a bad example! A bad example!]] Justice works independently, that's a basic law. We no longer have the system of inquisition of Mr Pilz, as was usual in the Middle Ages in this state, but we have the rule of law. We have a separation between justice, administration and Parliament. These three forces work independently of each other. I would like you to know that no publication of accused rights or victim rights has taken place with feet in your report.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3638	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3659	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to welcome the new club and point out that once, from our point of view, there has been an unlawful decision in this House by former President of the National Council, Dr Fischer, and by this prejudice, the President's decision has only been taken today. Of course, it should also be pointed out that in addition to the Liberal Forum, we now have another club in history, which has never made a choice, but has 2 million euros in additional tax money. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They always separate from you! What's going on?]] This is quite a fact to be prevented in the future by a change in the Rules of Procedure, because it is simply not fair for the citizens either. – I want to hold on to that at the beginning. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Amon.]] To Mr Jarolim. – Mr Jarolim, it was interesting, as you have said, that investigations have taken place in our rule of law on the basis of anonymous advertising, and therefore, with pre-conceptions, one must be particularly careful to reject them, even when it comes to withdrawal requests. I'll give you the right. Perhaps you should give talks within your party, not only here, but also in Carinthia and elsewhere, so that this argumentation is also lived by your party colleagues towards other political competitors, because I do not recognize your line of argument, since a completely different behavior of yours becomes visible than you have tried to present here today. So it was quite interesting to see how different actions and actions are being done. Corruption in general is a multi-faceted phenomenon that we unfortunately have to do with God in our Republic today, not only for a few years, but obviously and because of other scandals that have occurred in Austria for decades. It is therefore important that we detect and do not cover such developments in political responsibility in committee of inquiry. The corruption investigation committee was particularly important and did very good work. That is why he has been turned off by the two government parties, by SPÖ and ÖVP. He has been turned off when it became hot for representatives of these two parties, such as for German Chancellor Werner Faymann, Ostermayer, but also for Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich. When the Committee came into a phase in which it became unpleasant for these people, it was seen how seriously you deal with investigation and detection. I therefore say that it is necessary to make every effort to ensure that in the future such practices cannot be possible. Corruption is nothing but an abuse of power, and you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, have done nothing but ultimately prevent intelligence with your common majority of votes and those who are accused of corruption to make the wall so that we could not further clarify! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this, you are solely responsible and accountable! That's exactly what we've experienced. This is in the truest sense of the word power abuse par excellence, which you have also lived in your behavior. That is why – and I say that at the beginning – it is urgently necessary to finally implement what you have promised for years, but once again have broken and not kept it, namely to implement the establishment of investigation committees as minority law in this House, so that things like this can no longer happen in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is also necessary to ensure that an investigation committee can only be terminated by a different majority vote, not by a simple majority, but perhaps by a two-thirds majority, so that such processes as they have now happened can be excluded in the future. I would also like to thank the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Dr. Rosenkranz, who has presented an excellent report here in plenary, which Dr Pilz and his Wischi have today completely disregarded. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Header]] I say yes, if I were Peter Pilz – who I am fortunately not, thank God! – then you would probably also have the suspicion and come to the idea that Peter Pilz and his green party friend, Chief State attorney Geyer, will exchange and that some investigation results will then appear to be played. Otherwise, one could probably not see this as Peter Pilz. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I wonder, however, that Peter Pilz completely forgets that there are red-green sourries in Vienna and the Greens are corruption followers, partners when it comes to covering. Whether Skylink should be Investigation committee on sexual assaults and incredible scandals against children – you do not allow a committee of inquiry by the Greens in Vienna. [[Consistency with FPÖ and BZÖ as well as with the Abg. Gerstl.]] Such scandalous developments cover as greens in the city of Vienna today! These are the things you're trying to hide. And here you play the Inquisitor, give the great Morala Apostle of the Republic. I'm sure you're not, Mr. Peter Pilz. I say that it would have been much more to investigate, and there is also much to examine in Vienna. But they are active as a cover-up party and prevent that. There will still be much to study, but there will be a next legislative period, and I already know today that at the next election the Austrian population will make sure that the majority will change and red and black will not have a majority together, so that we can examine these crucial areas in the future. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We will have the majority in favour of finally discovering all these areas – from EADS and other piglets in this Republic – which will be covered. The SPÖ should not weigh in safety and act as if it had nothing to do with all these developments. At the Euro 2008, for example, the red echo publisher rented the Burgtheater by €800 000 and then rented it on. To whom, Mr. Jarolim? – To the Telekom, to plenty of € 1.4 million! This means a profit of €600 000. And who is the owner of the echo publishing? Who rules in the city of Vienna? Who forgives such leases? What basis of existence is behind it? – It is necessary to speak of a SPÖ money laundering machine, that Deutsche Telekom has financed it, that the public prosecutor has rightly identified and rightly set out investigations on this subject area. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Kronzeuge Gernot Schieszler has said that Deutsche Telekom has flown over €10 million. Yeah, where? – Among other things in the direction of echo publisher; not only Gartlehner, not only Rudas, but also echo publisher. Three months ago, Hannes Ametsreiter was consulted, and for two months Mr. Ametsreiter, echo managing director Christian Pöttler, Boris Nemšić, Schieszler has been accused, and Ametsreiter has not informed the Supervisory Board about this up to now. I say that is a clean performance, respect that you don't even inform the Supervisory Board. Then there were the “7 million for Werner”, which of course we all know about, which is then simply so fluffy over. “7 million for the Werner” – Pah, what a topic!Unknown term type: "%s".? In all of this, you still show character or missing character – otherwise I can't describe it – by deceiving the population, and soon you want to see a proper gag increase. That's what we want and will try to prevent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is exactly what the three parties have in mind, and I say that this can only be called an insult to the population! To conclude: It smells a lot in this republic, as does the field of gambling. If there are documents that confirm that gambling licenses have apparently been prepared so that the monopoly of Casinos Austria is ensured that even owners from the Raiffeisen area rule like Mr. Mag. Hellers have sent to the ministry so that the calls for tenders are also formulated accordingly, so that this monopoly can be secured if the developments show that the owner has apparently looked at the fact that the right people in the ministry are also sitting in front of it, and apparently also the responsible ones have played along, then it smells enormously in this Republic! But there are also other areas that we have to explain, namely, that we have no time to explain. And then you ask yourself: Why is that so? If you look at the property relationships, then you'll of course notice that this isn't a coincidence. The Raiffeisen Group has a large share in the Medial Beteiligungs-Gesellschaft m.b.H., with 38.3 percent it is also the largest shareholder of Casinos Austria, and the Austrian coin, a 100 percent subsidiary of the National Bank, holds a corresponding federal share at Casinos Austria. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] There are still many, many things that remain to be explained, and we will not give up making these piglets manifest, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3786	On and on, it is agreed that we leave animals aside in our statements. I'm looking beyond that right now. The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3843	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e3864	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to ask, first of all, what is the motive for this special meeting of the Green Group, which is taking place well outside the three-party agreement between BZÖ, FPÖ and Greens. What's the motive? Is it really the forcing of the Enlightenment of Corruption? Or, in fact, is there not something else behind it, namely, ladies and gentlemen – and that is the truth – that the Green Group is in the middle of a list of places in which Mr Pilz is fighting for his survival as a representative? He wanted the second place, but he already lost to Mr Kogler. Now he is fighting with special meetings for public attention and for saving his place of listing. You've got to hold it at this point, too. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also think it is a bit unfair that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, do not comply with this three-party agreement, but we take note of it in the sense and will also draw the corresponding consequences from it! I'm not going to take part in what you're doing here either. That you are trying to publish confidential files on various applications, I believe that there is a lack of confidence here and a damage that is done in order to ensure that we had very exemplary, good, cooperative cooperation with the judicial authorities in particular with a view to making all the investigations available. With your approach, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you are damaging this trust, you are damaging this cooperation between Parliament and Justice, and you are ultimately also harming the Enlightenment of Corruption – and this is what we condemn, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When we talk about corruption, I am in favour of questioning what is still ahead of us about corruption, including Mr Pilz. What has been discussed and examined within the Committee of Inquiry has, I believe, been dealt with many times. I would like to come to a more up-to-date case of corruption involving a prominent Canadian. Mr Lugar will speak after me, perhaps he can explain something. Corruption case Frank Stronach – and I also have the documents, ladies and gentlemen –: We are talking about the very specific question, why Mr Frank. Stronach and Mr. Gert Seeber, the lawyer of Mr. Stronach – I have the invoice – are paying €240 000 for a Stronach contract to the FPK advertising agency Connect, Mr. Lugar. Why does Mr. Stronach do, why does the lawyer of Mr. Stronach do that? I'll explain to you exactly the background. There is an agreement here, too, between this connection and Dr. Gert Seeber, who is the lawyer of Mr Stronach. In this agreement, the company Connect leads – quote – to: "Connect () has excellent contacts with several members of the Kärntner Landesregierung (). The Connect () is therefore able to promote the award of orders to lawyer Dr. Gert Seeber and to provide strategic advice to Dr. Seeber in such matters and to influence the approval and recognition of sufficiently high representation fees.” “The company Connect () will therefore endeavour to ensure that () appropriate orders are given to the law firm Dr. Gert Seeber”. [[Abg. That was BZÖ, Mr Petzner! That's where you have to be right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: BZÖ!]] And we have such a mediation here, from a time, Mr. Strache, where Mr. Scheuch was in Kärnten am Ruder, who should be a term for you and certainly not belong to the BZÖ. [[Abg. Strache: Mr Petzner, you were at the time as BZÖ!]] There is this invoice from the Connect to Mr Seeber, and the subject of this invoice is: [[Keeping a document in height]] “Acquisition premium in matters” – and now it comes – “Magna Tourism Project Reifnitz”. Now I ask you, Mr Lugar: Why does Mr. Stronach's lawyer have to pay €240 000 to the blue advertising agency for receiving the Magna Tourism Project contract in Reifnitz? [[Abg. Street: Orange advertising agency! Orange!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: There is no blue advertising agency!]] These are the true cases of corruption that belong to the investigation, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's where we'll stay. We also know that the public prosecutor is finding out in this context, and I am also sure that Mr Stronach will still have to answer accordingly. The fact that this committee of inquiry has been quite successful can I add another example, because it is also important for me to stress. Many Austrians are skeptical about the work of research committees, questioning the costs and asking: Yeah, did anything even come out? – Yes, it has come out very, very much, it is even, and this has been particularly gratifying, new investigations of the judiciary have been initiated by this committee of inquiry, and I do not wish to let that be mentioned here. In concrete terms, I speak of the Causa BUWOG and the hearing of the former Chief of Cabinet of Finance Minister Grasser Heinrich Traumüller. In the news magazine “FORMAT” a few weeks ago an article was published under the title: The boss unseals. “Karl-Heinz Grasser is charged with new statements by his former cabinet chief Heinrich Traumüller before the prosecutor. FORM quotes exclusively from new Bouwog protocols.” And we need to know that this hearing, this further hearing of the Heinrich Traumüller, his very stressful statements in connection with the BUWOG, and thus also the forced investigation against Mr Grasser's Minister of Finance, are a concrete success in the work of this committee of inquiry. I should like to quote Mr Traumüller here, who said: “I have only become aware of the true meaning of the pre-purchasing right in the course of the U-committee.” And then he goes on to explain that it was only there that the light had been given to him that this BUWOG thing could not be quite clean and therefore he had to take the path to the prosecutor's office again. That means, once again: This recent experience of Traumüller is also intended to show all the skeptics that this committee of inquiry has very probably had legal and technical consequences, which is really a great success. What you will not succeed in, Mr Pilz, and I come to you with this, is the attempt – he is not there – to warm up some old stories to him by the colleagues. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is not there at all!]] You, Mr Pilz, in turn try to get media hits through old hats, to get back to the media, and thus to continue fighting for your list space. Because Lakesidepark's story is really an ancient hat, so you just need to look at the newspaper reports I've all brought along. There are newspaper reports from the years 2003 to 2008, you just need to read everything, then you know. The fact is, a foundation was set up with €4 million; the Minister said that. From this foundation all parties, including SPÖ, also the ÖVP, knew in Carinthia. As far as the distribution of these funds is concerned, there are separate directives. I can only quote Schönegger's board of trustees here: ‘All parties knew about it.’ On the question of whether there have ever been payments to parties, the Schönegger completely excludes and has also communicated this to the authorities at that time. That means that everything has been examined, nothing has come out – and nothing will come out of history either. Just as nothing came out of this Gaddafi story. I should like to remind Mr Pilz of this time and again, and I should like to end by mentioning it. Mr Pilz has also claimed here at this speaker's desk about half a year ago that he has very concrete evidence that of Muammar al-Gaddafi 45 million € or $, whatever, have flown to the Haider. That is what you said, Mr Pilz, and you have proof of it. Where are the evidence now, Mr. Pilz? Where's the evidence? [[Abg. Strache: They are probably hidden in the community apartment of the fungus!]] They've been saying this for half a year and haven't put anything on the table today. And these are the criminalisation attempts that we condemn because they also damage the reputation of this House and also the instrument of the Committee of Inquiry. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The investigative committee is a serious educational body of Parliament, but it is not and should not be a criminalisation instrument for failed party politicians who are fighting for them to return to a Green List, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming election!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4012	Mr Dr. Strutz spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4036	Madam President. High house! Member Stefan Petzner here claimed that funds from the attorney Seeber would have been transferred to a blue agency of the FPK. I'm actually correcting [[Abg. Amon: It was more!]] [[Rejoicing]] The Connect was not a blue agency, but an orange agency, founded by the BZÖ. Stefan Petzner, then managing the state party, was named. [[Ah-Rufe des Abg. Bitch.]] That's the truth. Dear Stefan Petzner, even if you get a red head now, not only from the solarium, I would like to ask if the company Connect has not also paid fees to a Stefan Petzner.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4112	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4133	Madam President. High house! In my first speech as a clubman, I would like to say that it is, of course, very strange for me that a new club in Parliament is being attacked in such a way. [[Call BZÖ: Go! Go on!]] But I did not expect anything else from Mr Petzner. I would recommend to Mr Petzner and really ask him if he sees any dubious channels or has any suspicions to hand over to the prosecutor. [[Abg. Petzner: He's already finding out!]] Then it will happen to him just as it was last time: The prosecutor will laugh at you again because you are doing something here, which from my point of view is harmful to politics as a whole. After all, you are not trying to clean up your own vest, Mr Petzner, no, you are simply trying to throw dirt in order to make all the West as dirty as possible. And that is exactly the problem, what is happening there, and this hurts politics in general and you in particular, and I would ask you to stop it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would now like to address Mr Pilz briefly because Mr Pilz compared us with horses. Now I like horses very much, I don't really think it's bad to be compared to a horse. But it is a certain undertone that swings along when Mr Pilz calls us the property of Mr Stronach. It's also a little incomprehensible from my point of view why you're reacting this way. You have defamed us here in a very unpleasant way, and now I wonder why, because in the end, the Stronach team, this new party that is now in Austria, is exactly according to your taste. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Finally, the money comes from Canada!]] I can still remember how you have always explained to us that it would be nice if a party were not dependent on anyone. – We don't depend on anyone! We're not dependent on anyone! [[Lively ironic cheerfulness at SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] They have repeatedly said that it would be nice if a party existed in Austria, where the funding channels would be transparent. Mr Pilz, ours are transparent. We only have one who supports us accordingly, that's Frank Stronach, and that's transparent, everyone knows. Do we know about the ÖVP? Do we know about the SPÖ? How are you? Is that all revealed? That's the point. That means we're doing exactly what you've always said and you've always wanted: We are transparent, everyone knows from whom we are financed. And above all, we are only one obligation, and that is the Austrian state and the citizens. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In the Committee of Inquiry, we have repeatedly seen that the parties with economic operators, with all possible means, are putting themselves in bed in order to have financial advantages. We don't need that. Frank Stronach certainly does not set up a party to gain an advantage. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because no one has a place under the spell!]] Explain to me what an advantage it would have! What an advantage would he draw from establishing a party in Austria? We have known since the Committee of Inquiry that in Austria at least €100 000 – there are some who have also confirmed this on television – can buy at least a certain influence on laws. That's all right. This is happening in Austria, we know that since the committee of inquiry. That is, if someone in Austria wanted to influence the laws, then there is a simpler method than to start a party, a much easier method. Or do you think that Mr. Frank Stronach is taking millions' hands in order to change the way over a party, and then to gain benefits? In addition, where it would not at all be possible to imagine what benefits this might be in Austria. Therefore, just take it as it is: Frank Stronach is a successful businessman who has probably moved a lot in the economic sector that has created 115 000 jobs worldwide, 13 000 jobs in Austria, which has invested 2 billion in a region that has been structurally weak, and now also wants to move somewhat socially politically in his lifetime. [[Abg. May. Widmann: War! War!]] He has already shown economically that he can. [[Abg. Großruck: On the topic! On the subject!]] And now he also wants to show socially political that an ideal society, a better Austria is possible. That's the background. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's it. You don't want to see that, I'm perfectly clear. Of course, you have no joy that there is competition here. Of course, it will also be so that we will ultimately take away votes from you. Of course it will. But if you look closely at it, you've only made it possible. The fact that there is a team of Stronach in Austria was your co-religion. [[Abg. Großruck: But we have a urgent request to deal with today!]] They have all made it possible because you are not in a position to address the pressing problems in this country for decades. If you had done good work, there would be no need for new parties! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If we were to do something that I have been recommending here for years, namely put us together at a table and decide, we will not stand up until we have a good solution for Austria if we do what Sweden, Switzerland and other countries have already done, then there was no need for a team of Stronach in Parliament, and there was also no need for all the other 930 parties that have set up. [[Abg. Großruck: Mr. Lugar, we have a urgent one today!]] So if you show some sadness here, I can only tell you that you are to a large extent yourself guilty that the Austrians are dissatisfied, and that is right. That is why it would be necessary for us all to put together and produce good solutions. I know that's not easy. There you have to look beyond the party boundaries, there you have to shake off the ideological bonds. That's not easy, I get it, but that's exactly what people expect from us outside. Finally, they expect us to develop a good solution to the problems we have. And we have enough problems. If you hear the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors sitting here from time to time, you know where the problems lie. We've known that for decades. And what happens? - Nothing! The President has said that not even 2% of what he has advised us to do has been implemented. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: No, that's not true! Read the report!]] That's a fact. So either we will soon get in the way and solve the problems that exist in this country, or it will be even worse – and many more parties will be established in this country, and the parts of the votes will shrink even more, especially by the old big parties. So, as I said, Take yourself by the nose, and don't be so sad! One thing I'd like to address. Mr. Strache came out today, and here he told us that we would get a club promotion. – Of course we will get a club promotion. This is regulated by the law. [[Abg. Strache: Do you have a democratic legitimacy? Has your club joined the election?]] Now I ask you: Who even decided on this promotion of the club? Were these not your representatives here in Parliament? Who has decided to promote the club? [[Abg. Kickl: Is there anyone in this country who has chosen Stronach?]] Who has doubled the promotion of the party just a short time ago? Who was that? Who has doubled them, these 15 million that are in addition to the parties every year? Or we will talk about the €300 million that will flow to the parties in Austria as a whole! Let's talk about it! But no, you don't want to talk about it. But we will make another request that this doubling of party funding be withdrawn, in the sense of the taxpayer, and I am eager to see how you will react to whether you will vote in favour. That's what we're going to look at. But if we get something that you all get, then there's a big problem right now, because it's not about your cash register, it's not about the money you use, and that's exactly the problem. [[Abg. Strache: We made a choice in contrast to Mr Stronach!]] Of course, I am willing to talk about bringing the money to a reasonable end. Of course. Frank Stronach has always said he doesn't need anything from anyone, he takes his own money to move something here. Who else does that? Who's doing this in this room? Who takes his own money in order to change Austria? How many are there in this room? But there is one out there, Frank Stronach, who takes his own money and wants to move here in Austria. He wants to break up this country, break up this reform. [[Abg. Strache: That's almost sect-like!]] And what's he reaping here? – Here he only reaps disfavor, envy and accusations from the pages we already know. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Are you still free with the number?]] Normally, we should be grateful to him for finally coming to someone who has an idea of economics and gives us some clues in many areas as to how we can make it better. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The fact that he knows how it goes is seen only by the fact that even Mr Spindelegger from the ÖVP asked him to look at the ÖVP for the right, to see what can be done better. This is a good approach, I welcome the fact that the ÖVP has finally come to its senses and says: Yes, we have deficits in this area, please look at this and tell us how we can do better! That's exactly the point: We all have our hands, we want here in this house that everyone comes to a table that we are developing good solutions for Austria. [[Abg. Strache: Should a party take over the ÖBB now?]] The ÖBB is the first step, and we will take a closer look at what we can do better, and we will also make our proposals in all other areas. And then we invite everyone to fight with us for a better Austria. Frank Stronach is ready to do everything to support us, and that's good, and I'm glad he's at our side for a better Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4409	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4430	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I turn to the reply of the Minister of Justice, it is difficult to get around after the almost virgin speech by the clubman of a new – you do not know how to say – party to this. That already has something of a sectlike appearance. There has never been a clubman in the Second Republic, I think, who, in such a long-lasting period, consistently talks about any subject, but has always had a name in his mouth, namely that of a non-deputy. He is not here yet, Mr Stronach, and we do not know whether he will ever come. Only one thing is safe: He must be the cult leader, we can close that. I don't know if in this case you're not a very slow case for the Cult Officer. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] But be it. You said something else that I would correct exactly to the contrary. It's gonna get worse, you mean if more parties are formed. So I don't understand either. Parties should be established as it is popular – that enriches. I mean that very seriously, only in this case is this very strange, because under the call for battle some new values are being done in such a way that they say that they are against the system. – And in reality, this action against the system – which is supposed to be or actually corrupt – is designed in such a way that the whole system is bought together. This is, of course, very consistent. I am not only proud of it, but I defend – precisely for this reason, you have provided the best evidence – the public party funding and the sufficient and reasonable payment of politicians, so that exactly that does not happen: American conditions in which not even democratically elected presidents can free themselves from the encroachment of the oil and nuclear lobby, because they are paid by it. [[He also welcomed the Greens and the representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This is obviously also a family condition: Ms. Belinda Stronach has appeared to two parties in Canada – every time after considerable donations have been paid in the same parties. Whatever the case, you did not say anything about the Committee of Inquiry. It may be that Magna will be a case for the next investigative committee – I come to the first keywords – if we have to deal with the Eurofighter causa once again – but we have to: – because it is most likely that this is the biggest corruption case in the Second Republic. – And that’s how we’re still not done with the reprocessing. But I would now like to come to the Minister for Justice: Praise, recognition and respect for the clear and clear answer to questions! It wasn't always like that. Let's just think about Gerstl, who celebrated this with the game Carinthia! In the meantime, you should perhaps just throw in – so that we can give a little hope –: What is happening now, all year long, is the reworking of recent years, the last ten years, if you want to. Let's leave the party political colors away – because Mr. Klubobmann in Blue is just passing by – but let's work on it! [[Abg. Strache goes to the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Karl]] It looks like there's more scandals now than before. – That's not true. We're just working on it. This discovery work as well as the new transparency laws, which most of them have adopted here, will help to make it better in the future – and I am really convinced that I am also opposed – thanks to this information work. That is why it is so important that it is brought to a close. And that's why you missed a knee shot from the government itself – but now only more red and black, I have to take out the other two opposition parties – by turning off the investigation committee. The spirit behind it has proved that the previous speaker, Gerstl, has just returned. Carinthia was brought as an example. You know what was there? – We still have one last chicken to grumble, Mrs. Minister of Justice: You always have justice. ==References====External links==* Official website These have simply thrown down the clear stand Holubs and the twice ad against any reasonable eyelight, so you can say in good German. It was only then that the corruption prosecutor's office was established on our insistence and we put it there again – and not because justice has always worked so well. The good thing about it is – and you can see it in recent months: Now she works much better. An objective reason that God is grateful, a success of the educational work – so you have to see it, and that is why there is hope and the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What has no future, Mr Gerstl, is the hold over the Greens. It's just the other way around. It's embarrassing that you want to continue the cover-up. One has to say it again because it may become important for legal disputes, for prejudicials in the future: It was the majority parties who not only prevented a report from being submitted by the U Committee after it had already been strangled by not introducing it, but also prevented the opposition from presenting a minority report, because it was not at all different. In this way, we are restoring this right. We fulfil the duty you have failed to fulfil, because even as majority groups you could have said something critical at some point, but it is the task and role of the Greens – and again and again of the other opposition parties – to ensure that. And that's what we're doing here now. The Rules of Procedure have not been broken because we quote from the files and establish links – that is exactly the mandate of the Committee of Inquiry. It's not just the testimony evidence, it's especially the files that you have to read! Yes, Mr President, we know this; You've always said we don't need to read that. We read this, we interpret it, we make connections – and see: It was written the largest anti-corruption report, based on completely clear facts that this Republic had to take note of, exactly where it belongs, here in the House. We will continue to do so so so that your turning and covering can not continue. Finally, I would like to remind you that this is exactly what happened in the Banking Investigation Committee and in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee – I only call them both; others you have ended in a bad way too – has resulted in consequential damage of several billions. I tell you at this point again and again: The hypo would have been different if you had not done so with your majority – with certainty! That was in 2007. In the case of Eurofighters, we would have come much faster where we are now necessarily landing. The escape won't help you. We will continue to clarify for the benefit of the Republic, and then we can go about it – then, if all of this is done: Rework, repair and re-start – to really organize the moral restart of the Republic. Look at that. You're there, and don't always stop the game!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4526	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4550	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I would like to deal with two things in advance: first of all, I would like to say that there is no report. I remember how we did not debate the oral report of the then chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Rosenkranz, here in the House not too long ago – that was about two to three weeks ago. And I can also recall the statements made by Dr. Rosenkranz, who went on 16th. On 1 October 2012, one could not move another to the Black Peter if one did not even present a minority report. – So much to the claim that something would be prevented. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: a minority report can only be made if there is a majority report!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, it is not up to you to draw up a report yourself, but I would like to say one thing: All of us here in the House should comply with the Rules of Procedure, in particular with the fact that we are also dealing with confidential file items which have not yet been part of a public meeting. I have already noticed in the Committee of Inquiry how this works, especially as the Pilz system, I would like to say, works: One cites individual files, but leaves away the key elements and then distributes them to journalists. I don't think it's feasible to spread misinformation in the sense of letting go of decisive things without going into your report now, because 600 pages can't be read in such a short time. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Which one? What misinformation?]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] To the colleague Klubobmann – now I would almost miss the name – Lugar Your speech was very interesting, I have to say; I would almost say she was a little scurry. [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Actually, it doesn't affect us, but I hope you don't do it like the SC Wiener Neustadt. It was also first of all the talk that this was a new toy, I would almost say, of Mr Stronach, who then did not fruit after it did not work that way. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is important to stick to this – and this has also been seen here in the debate –: It does not help all of us – and I am now talking about the parties represented here in the House – if we are only evading each other, adapting to each other, presenting subjective perceptions. I believe that we in the House should be for detection and not for abuse, we should be for Enlightenment and not for criminalization, in particular it should be important and serious for all of us to eliminate corruption. The Committee of Inquiry, which we have unanimously decided here in the House, has been one of the most successful committees of inquiry in the Second Republic because we have decided on important legislative proposals to prevent corruption in order to eliminate corruption. This should be at the heart of this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Suggestions!]] – Because you say “proposals”: I'll be right there. First of all, I would like to quote – you have seen it today – that: The system investigation committee, as it is currently, I find personally, antiqued. We must also ask ourselves whether, if we are going to set up the next committee of inquiry, we are not saying that an object of investigation is enough to determine whether we are not setting a time limit, so that in the end there is not always the dispute, who is when what it is supposed to have initiated. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. That's right. Witness prevention program!]] This should be our common objective: a ‘unencumbered’ committee of inquiry, which is led mainly by materiality. I miss this fact in today's debate – and not only today – in particular. People demand from us politicians on matters, not evasion, no reluctance, no mutual adaptation, because that hurts us all. The Parliament's main task must be to clarify, in particular, the political responsibilities in a committee of inquiry. We are not a court, we are not a prosecutor, and, finally, we should really start a reform of this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4669	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4691	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kogler! The Committee of Inquiry shall have the task of clarifying political responsibility. That's what we did, and everything [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, not at the East.]] Further, justice will now be clarified, and the courts will clarify it. On behalf of Mr Lugar, who is now no longer here, who today has made his Clubobmann-Jungfern speech as a bulwark speech: Considering that Mr Stronach and his club now receive basic funding of €1.2 million and that all is not necessary because Mr Stronach has so much money anyway and can finance the club and the new party, it would be just to give up either the club promotion or to donate this money to the poor. You can do this, Mr Hagen, your clubman and your patron. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would now like to refer to Mr Pilz's urgent question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] You always notice this with Dr. Pilz: It's just about publication, it's just about criminalization – the first few speeches are made, and it's gone again. Mr Pilz only wants to criminalise, he wants to condemn. – Who says if someone is accused or accused, that he is then also sentenced and that something comes out in a trial? Mr. Kolle Pilz is constantly hiding behind his immunity and ultimately – what my previous speakers have already said – behind a near-punishment freedom, which is § 24 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, and it shall enter the rule of law with its feet. He has also not managed to do so in the Committee of Inquiry, has treated information individuals such as serious criminals. This is unacceptable and cannot be carried out by an investigation committee. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are in favour of information, we have shown this about session procedures and the number of meetings – my colleagues will continue to address this. I just want to take a few things out because it always means that we've turned the investigation committee off. I would like to point out that the flooring of the Committee – thank God is the former President Moser here – is due to the fact that Mrs Moser, from a party-political point of view, has just pushed away a four-party request with which a roadmap has been presented and said that her legal position is both this and that. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To be honest, Mrs Moser, that you, as one who knows a lot of what has come up with in this committee of inquiry – I only call the BUWOG and other things – are aware that you have been disturbed by Mr. Dr. Pilz by the Investigation Committee like a piece of calf on a nose ring, I have never understood that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Hello call at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens.]] To the successful investigative committee: Dr. Pilz said today that there was no report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] First of all, he never brought a report to the committee of inquiry with his group; he did not let it vote, he did not bring it in. And if you talk about a report which is being presented here for one and a half hours or so, which is to be read in the Stenographical Protocol, that this is not a report, then you do not trust Mr Rosenkranz, who has done his job as chairman, by the way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Now to the success of the Committee of Inquiry: It is dear, Mrs Moser, if you say that you have in your 680-page report which you have tabled today as a motion for a resolution, several proposals, where we could make improvements, that there are no more cases of corruption, but I would like to point out what we have decided here together in the House before the summer – and this is also the success of this committee of inquiry, because there have never been so many laws as a consequence of a committee of inquiry – the whole package of transparency, the party financing law, the media transparency law, the lobbyist law, also the law of inconsistency of Members, and the new law on corruption law will be addressed by my colleague, Himmelbauerbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's right! I mentioned that too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] But now to say that is only due to the fact that the Committee of Inquiry was terminated in October, Mrs Moser, that is not all right, and that is not all right for the Greens. If Mr Pilz, who is now God's thanks again, fears his insignificance with the Greens and politics, then he can be overcome: Find a job in the private sector and try your luck there!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4840	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e4861	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr State Secretary! It's quite exciting: As a matter of fact, I came down here with a urgent request to the Minister of Justice, which was distributed, but in the course of the debate, it was actually not much to hear from this question, but we have experienced other very illuminating things. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kogler, Dr. Moser and Ing. Westenthal]] We have – and this is part of the fight against corruption – heard a confession by Mr Petzner, who quoted from documents of the 2006 Connect when the Connect was an advertising agency of the BZÖ, in the era of the managing party owner Stefan Petzner. [[Ah-Rufe des Abg. Bitch.]] – Is it clear why he has the documents at all? It is quite logical that he can also show us these documents and papers, because this is obviously from his economic era. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's the business manager doing? – He manages the business and, of course, sees that the economic – revenue, expenditure and so on – everything works perfectly. – Mr Petzner is now shaking his head. Perhaps this is not the case, because perhaps the BZÖ is now engaged in work. We have already observed today that we have two BZÖ parties and clubs here: on the one hand, there is the public-law BZÖ Bucher Club or the Bucher Troupe, that is, BBT, and then there is the private and private-sector organized BZÖ Tronach, the Stronach team, that is BST. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So that's a little bit divided. And I hope that my colleague Tamandl's appeal to my colleague Pilz was not that he might now also be privately organized and try to hire at the BZÖ's Stronach Troupe. This has now been divided a little, there is the public and private sector, and this private sector is, of course, the one we are now pleased with. We now have the American election campaign behind us – and the high goal that will now be set is obviously that we should get American conditions here in Austria. There is not only the club honoris causa, which is here because of the honor that there has been the election decision, but there is also the club pecunae causa, of the money that has been founded here. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] How does the Latin – Mr. Däderle’s Federal Minister had his joy – say otherwise? Another quote: pecunia non olet – the money doesn't smell like shit. [[Abg. Großruck: Who said that? Who's that from?]] In this regard, Mr Lugar certainly has a correspondingly fine organ that he has no perceptions there. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] We have now received a report here. Madam President Prammer – I do not see you right now – has meant that she will examine intensively – probably she is in the process of doing so – which is contained in this 680-page report and which should not actually be published. Madam President, you can save your work, because the Green Group has already put the report on its website to the public. [[Abg. Bitch: Uh!]] That is to say, anyone who has Internet access can already look at this and no longer have to wait for this report. I see that today is a certain desavowing of the President. But why is the issue of non-publication at all in this field of tension or, as the other political groups have suggested, the documents which have not been properly incorporated into the committee of inquiry? – Unfortunately, the time for the Committee was too short for us to allow all these documents that we had and which have a certain margin to be incorporated into the Committee of Inquiry. Whether this procedure, which was described as a trick, was used to immunize it, is the question, and that could have been spared. Only the committee of inquiry should have taken quite a long time and all possible information people should have been questioned, then we could have saved all these discussions about the files we are debating today, whether right or wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At this point, we see how urgently a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee of Inquiry is necessary in order not to be able to come to such situations as one of the ‘lawbreak’ and the other ‘an emergency situation’ or whatever. We had the files in the house, and we would have liked to use them properly in the committee of inquiry if the time had come. With regard to the urgent request of the Greens to the Minister for Justice: Mrs. Justice Minister, I have to tell you that your answer to the question was a huge one, as we rarely experience it in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, this is also to be seen in a tension, namely that persons who have a criminal procedure on top of an act lid, since up to a certain degree are also placed before this House and before the public to the prangler. But in a media society, that's the way it is. [[Abg. Head: Is that all right?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Jarolim has also rightly stated that one comes very easily to the acting lid of a pink file with his name, even a politician can very quickly come upon such a thing due to anonymous ads. Only: If you say here – Mr Federal Partyobmann Strache has already mentioned it – if this concerns a red Chancellor or a red State Secretary, that all of this is actually a serious sin, that you should be sparingly dealing with withdrawal requests, I must say: Keep the mirror in mind in this regard! Mr Jarolim was able to say that this criminal proceedings took place on the basis of an announcement from the Secretary-General Vilimsky. We don't need to hide in anonymity, and that's the nice thing to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we have suspicions, we can express this openly and send it to the right and competent authorities. But when it comes to liberals, there are always anonymous ads. Then – this suspicion has already been made in the room – there is usually the meeting on a small coffee between Mr. Geyer and Mr. Pilz and the media game around. But above all, there is one thing: On the part of the SPÖ, there is always the demand to withdraw from the House's top representatives! Mr Jarolim, once in your party, hold a seminar on what is a presumption of innocence and what is a presumption of innocence. In this respect, we are not so far in Austria. In this case one might, in exception, take an example of America, where one is guilty only if one is actually condemned. But in Austria it is as follows: We'll try it once, we'll pick up a mess, something's gonna be all right. And as far as justice is concerned: Who knows, maybe since birth has anything to do with it? This is the classification that also masters Peter Pilz very well. A mushroom court is something I would rather get in the Parliamentary canteen, and it is not these 600 pages that I would like to pick up from Mr Pilz. [[Abg. Strache: But this is a poison swab!]] [[Call: is toxic]] We've only been able to look in a little, but except for suspicions and suspicions, there's nothing in it. The following circumstance is very revealing: This urgent request is listed in the explanatory statement under the heading ‘Company corruption’ in the terms ‘public contracts’ and ‘laws and regulations’. There is also the following point: “4. covered party funding through washed donations and advertisements Telekom Austria – BZÖ Telekom Austria – FPÖ – that’s what the Greens say – “Telekom Austria – ÖVP, ÖAAB, FCG, Farmers’ Federation, Young VP” Why do I miss the point “hidden party funding through washed donations and ads” Deutsche Telekom Austria – SPÖ Wien? [[Call:SPÖ]] [[Call the BZÖ:Echo!]] [[Abg. Blow: Left eye blind!]] Why do I miss that? Is this now the consideration of green interests in Vienna? Is this now the consideration of Pilz's discoverer of the ambitions of Mrs Glavischnig to become Vice-Cancellor in a red-green government? Is this, at one time, the soft musculoskeletal course that one closes the eyes, where it is worth discovering, because it concerns one's own power interests? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then you get the green eyeband or a board of organic wood in front of the brain? - No, it can't be. Finally, I would like to say: Mrs. Federal Minister, given the knowledge of the files I have received and received from the Justice Committee, I note that while the mills of justice are slowly grinding, they are the same – and this should not really be a comparison now – and God's mills are slow, but very small and just. Justice has collected indices and, of course, it is clear – you have also mentioned it – that there has already been accusations, proceedings and the like. This already exists, and the population can observe it closely. But there are, of course, procedures that take longer due to company fissions and intertwinements than if in a local or somewhere else one gives a waterer to the other and the matter is relatively quickly clarified. [[Abg. Strache: But at ORF this is not a problem either!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] But in these cases of economic corruption one has to determine for a long time, and of course it also depends on requests for legal assistance from abroad. From my professional practice, I would like to include the following: What was collected against certain defendants and defendants there has already arrived in many indexing processes for juicy convictions. In this regard, I am also optimistic that justice – and this is actually the core of today's urgent question – will do this work well, although, unfortunately, God, sometimes parts of justice are always played through discrepancies of media or similar – perhaps it is also related to those acting in the executive functions – their political, their bad party-political game. Mr Jarolim is not here right now, but we know the file note, which says that SPÖ lawyers, judges and prosecutors have been gathered together and asked themselves: What do we want to do to finally get people from the BSA into the legal system?
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5069	Mr Petzner spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5105	Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Mr Rosenkranz for his speech because he gives me the opportunity to make two actual corrections. The The first is as follows: Mr Rosenkranz, in his speech, said that I was responsible for the business of the liberals in Carinthia, as it is correctly registered in the association statute. I'm correcting: In fact, I was never responsible for the economic but exclusively for party policy. [[Abg. Strache: What is the managing director doing? BZÖ CEO!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] - Listen! May I continue, Mr. Strache? – This can only be proved by the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the Causa Connect has been established by the judicial system for a year now, in the near future with a charge and Mr. Stefan Petzner, as a witness, has ever been heard as an accused person, since he has nothing to do with it at all. [[Abg. Strache: What was the performance? What was the performance for the salary that the petitioner should have collected at the connection?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] This is the first actual correction. Second actual correction: Mr Rosenkranz claimed that I would have to have these bills because they were somehow created in my time or by myself. I'm actually correcting: These do not come from myself at all, because if Mr. Rosenkranz were to study the media a little, he would know that these invoices were published in the original of several daily newspapers, such as the news magazine “profile” and also the daily “Der Standard”. The fact is, in this procedure there are many accused, all of them ladies and gentlemen of the FPK. I'm just calling it Manfred Stromberger.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5200	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5222	Mr President. High house! Why this excitement? Mr. Strache, why this excitement at the FPÖ? I think we have explained in this Republic other, more important things which are much more important, but which are also clarified. It must also be noted to the FPÖ that in the Causa Connect, the Magna Group, only and only FPK politicians are accused and that Mr Petzner has not even been invited as a witness. You have to take note of that! I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's why he wants to complain!]] Mr President, that's it. – This allows you to shake whatever you want. But apparently you're on it, and you're about to say goodbye to your friends in Carinthia, because you know there's still a lot to come out there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: For what has the Petzner collected the Gage he has hopefully taxed? What was the performance?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also do not want to welcome the residual fraction of Stronach and his mandate robbers here in Parliament for reasons of substance. [[Call the FPÖ:Mandate Robber?- Oh, my God!]] It is significant if we are talking today about corruption that this club is being lifted out of baptism on that very day. It stands here in the room that mandates are purchased, here stands in the room that you do not have a electoral mandate and have not been elected – and since we cover ourselves, Mr. Strache, these people do not have a electoral mandate and have therefore also taken place without their own programme. [[Abg. Strache: An orange BZÖler speaks of a robbery of mandates!]] You don't have your own program to this day either. Let me mention the difference to existing parties here in Parliament! – This one is not known. The only thing I hear is that you worship Mr Stronach in prayer. That in the back is apparently a sect worship party, but not a renewal party. This can't be her either, dear friends of the Stronach party, because Mr. Stronach has had a lot of friends – Vranitzky, Grasser, Rudas, Klasnic, Paierl, to name just a few from the red and black environment – who have also been paid, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Street: Westenthaler! Grasser! List all of them!]] How do you want to reform a system from which you leave? Another, dear colleague from the Stronach party: Mr Stronach will not sit in Parliament for a minute, that is what Mr Klubobmann – Lugar, I believe – says himself. Read today's "SN" interview! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I didn’t understand that acoustically, “SN”?]] There's the following in there: When asked if anyone other than Stronach could become a top candidate, you say: Yes, of course. . So you've already fooled the voters, because Mr Stronach will certainly not be here a minute in Parliament. In the second sentence, what you're doing here is also deception. On the subject of Examining Committee: The Committee of Inquiry has Areas of good work – that was also said repeatedly; only the topics of Telekom, Blue Light Radio, BUWOG, Gambling – were mentioned – but he did not fully clarify everything, even at Telekom. Whenever I hear these funny calls regarding the Telekom of the FPÖ or also of the Greens, I have to say that there is nothing left. Because if you think today of the opinions of Haslinger or Schmied who stand in the room, then they are connected with the private person Wittauer, but not with the BZÖ. [[Abg. Strache: Wittauer has “never” belonged to the BZÖ!]] There's no cent that's flown. I am excited to see if the smile of Mr Strache is going to stop when it comes to Connect and what comes out of the FPK. I'm curious if you're going to be so funny then, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Wittauer “never” belonged to the BZÖ, was “never” part of the BZÖ!]] There's still a lot to do. We'd have some more information. The Telekom East business is about the left and right half of the empire. You know that very well. This is about mobile cars in Bulgaria, where the former ex-ÖVP chief Taus or SPÖ entrepreneur Herbert Cordt have done a lot of work, as I mean, because they are bought by €800 million and then sold to Deutsche Telekom around doubles. Who collected these profits? Was there a promotion of the party? And the name Martin Schlaef always appears – sleep, a confessing social democrat, we all know that. What's in the bush? There were party promotions? With regard to Velcom's business in Belarus, Mr Sleepf has made 300 million € in profit, we are not talking about 200 000 or 1 million, but about 300 million! Why do you refuse the SPÖ? Why did you turn off the investigation committee? Why Walls You there? Why Make You're not going on? In reality, this country needs this Parliament to have a permanent committee of inquiry with a Rules of Procedure that has washed and a minority law. I suspect that the President of the Federal Republic also plays a role that is not worthy of him. He has watched, and he has finally done so, because he has not asked the rulers to press ahead with the investigations. On the contrary, he has even approved the behaviour of this government, of the wall, of emphasizing. There are other issues that we will then discuss, such as the issue of banks. It is always claimed that both the FPÖ and the BZÖ had “worked” something – under quotation marks – at the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Let us look at it together, let us make an investigation committee! But let us also look at the municipal credit in which the SPÖ is arrested! But let's also look at the ÖVAG, where the ÖVP is stuck! These are things that you need to clarify and where you have to draw consequences, but it is not done. But the worst thing I've experienced today was the show of Mr. Peter Pilz. Ladies and gentlemen! To create yourself here, to hate other people, to adapt to other parties, to blow a report with 680 pages on the table, where there are regulations inside, where people are condemned – where we know, Mr. Pilz, as your style was in the investigation committee, dictatorial – of which one does not know whether they have something on the hat or not! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where?]] Dictatorial! Then you'll be surprised when the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ say Njet on minority rights. You're breaking this up, Mr Pilz and colleagues from the Greens! This is the Glavischnig party. They are thus undermining the opportunities to strengthen the rights of the opposition, because by your behaviour you show that you are not in a government or at all in the opposition state-bearing help to solve these abuses. It should be true that the Greens are about the two and three places of listing. Who'll be? Is it Mr. Peter Pilz, who already sees himself as an early pensioner in the cheap community apartment, or is it Mr. Kogler? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] That's why this show was released today, but not to explain. If it were serious about you, you would certainly not have broken the law and quoted from documents from the Investigation Committee, although you know very well that this is inadmissible that this is illegal. These are the greens in this country. It must be strictly rejected. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have plenty of dirt on your own, my dear colleagues from the super-reconnaissances and the super-democratic and super-human rights defenders – the human rights you step with your feet. Just think of the "inserators", for example, Mrs Vassilakou in Vienna! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser.]] Think of Anschober in Upper Austria, where everything will be insulated! Think of Van der Bellen, the university representative, €200 000 a year! What's this money for? Where's his performance? It's completely open to this day. Think of colleague Langthaler, Telekom! You would have time to complement this report by another 100 pages, namely the green stuff, the green sourries that you have to show in this country. However, they prefer to burden people, to increase the fees in Vienna, to make the red and black government the wall when it comes to freeing billions for pleite banks, for pleite states, in order to ultimately impose tax increases – here you are. There you are the first to not say no. And you are now taking part again after the general increase in the promotion of the party, to support the political salaries which are being massively increased. You're there too, you don't have a generator and you're not on the side of the little citizens. Talk to a salesman, an employee, a secretary who has to get 1 000 €, 1 500 € net and then the world doesn't understand that a national council member with 8 200 € won't get out! Talk to them! That is the basis, and there you have to move again, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] To formulate it in the Pilz’s style – my style is not that –: What you have listed today is dictatorial, the reconnaissance is extremely obstructive. You are the attackers, you are the nearer, you are ultimately the downfallers of this republic, you are in fact the load and riser holding party, and you are making the wall for this red-black federal government. That must be done!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5405	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5427	Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, when the corruptions of the Republic broke out, we promised three things, namely clarification, reparation and legislative changes to the prevention of corruption. If we now listen to the unity with which a arch of SPÖ, FPÖ, BZÖ and ÖVP forms, in the agreement that there is a single perpetrator in the investigation committee who bears the name Pilz, then all this says. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, well! The fungus breaks a lot of good things, that's the problem with it! You know that!]] There were the following terms – I quote –: Pillow dish, system fungus, U-committee antique, dictatorial adjustment. – All this is just an expression of the powerlessness of political establishment, the expression of powerlessness in view of the fact that what has been in practice in Austria for many years no longer goes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We've cleaned up with your bar over the last few months, and that's your last withdrawal fight you've all been running together. That's the truth. That's defying: They make the detector or the detectors – there were several – to the perpetrators. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't show up! You didn't find anything! It's all in some files! What is “covered up ”?]] But the Austrians do not believe this any more. Get out! Get out! Thank God the communication is unique. They are all the same, it is said first, and at the second moment it is said to God thank you: No, it's true, the greens weren't there. – You agree, you make a retreat fight, that is what you are unaware of. You will get the invoice presented for this. On the legislative amendments: If you listen to my colleague Mr Tamandl, you have almost the impression that she was at the head of all these changes in the law. She said: Please, we've changed so much anyway! – So in their world it looks like this: SPÖ and ÖVP wanted to change the laws, and everyone else did tough resistance. The truth is: Of course it was different. It took many years for the party donations to be subject to changes in the transparency of the party donations. It was the greens who made the pressure and enforced themselves. The same was true of corruption legislation. I remember: As far as the corruption privilege for Members is concerned, that they are not so important, you have always explained to me by SPÖ, FPÖ, BZÖ and ÖVP that it is impossible to regulate everything. - We didn't give up. The law has been changed. Or when feeding, I can remember: Since the entire corruption scandal has already broken out, there has been a meeting – Mr Kogler will remember – in the Ministry of Justice, where Cap and Head have explained to us: Yes, we may do something about the corruption of Members, but when we feed, we don't change anything, because that's what we deliberately put on at the time! – Thank God, too, the pressure was great enough, and the Greens have prevailed, and this mood care through gifts to politicians and administrative officials could be stopped. So, and we're in the middle of cleaning, and they're not finished yet. This report of over 600 pages contains a few recommendations, and these are the next points we will address. The first point has already been raised by Mr Moser: The Committee of Inquiry must become a minority law. This is not a point of negotiation, but it is a fixed commitment that has been made since April 2009, and I say to you: It is an investment in your future – because just as you continue, you will soon sit on the opposition bank and be glad that you have a minority right as an opposition. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second point is judicial criminality in party financing. The elegant thing about it is that, according to Austrian criminal law, parties can also be condemned, namely, according to the Association Responsibility Act. By the way, there is already a party in Austria that has been sentenced to criminal law. That was the FPÖ Burgenland because of hatred. And why should this not be the case in the event of a crime, in the event of a violation of the Party Donation Act? And the latter is the equipment of the corruption prosecutor's office. Now you have to imagine: There was a need for 40 prosecutors. For years a handful of work has been done, then one has increased to 17 thanks to God, now another 14 are added. This is all right, but this was done in turn only because of the tough pressure. We won't give up. There is a promise from us that we are organizing the restart in this Republic. And in this sense we will not let go until all these demands have been implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5489	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5510	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rosenkranz, I would like to give you one point: We should discuss a urgent question here to the Minister for Justice, discuss together. Do you know who was the first person who didn't stick to it at all? – It was – he's not in the hall anymore – your clubman street. And I have to say a few things about his statements and statements he has made. He spoke of corruption in connection with the award procedure under the gambling law. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What he has said is suspicions, and what he has neglected is that the competitors of CASAG have failed to do two proceedings at the Constitutional Court with proceedings against the award process. I would therefore like to ask Mr Klubobmann Strache, who is not here, personally, so to speak, face to face: Do you perform handheld services for a competitor of CASAG? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No!]] Who was with you, Mr Klubobmann Strache, and has led you to conduct a press conference with untenable suspicions in Vienna? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: No one!]] I would like to point this out with all my determination and point out again the decisions of the VfGH which just rejected the complaints against the award of the gambling concession. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But Strache forgot a lot more. He tries and also the FPÖ tries to steal from the political responsibility for corruption cases. I wanted to ask him now: Mr. Klubobmann Strache, have you forgotten everything yet? Are you suffering from political dementia? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Remember “Lucona” and “Noricum”?]] I would like to remind you, Mr Rosenkranz, what has been discussed in the Committee of Inquiry: €600 000 went from Telekom to the mediaConnection of Gernot Rumpold – Gernot Rumpold is known to the Freedom Party – for studies of which only the covers exist. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Just like you!]] Three days after the payment of Deutsche Telekom at Rumpold was complete, the mediaConnection waived claims of €764,000 from the FPÖ. Now I wanted to ask the Klubobmann Strache: Mr Klubobmann, can you explain to us, the High House, the television viewers why the ban has come? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Who was Obmann at the time?]] And one thing you must not forget: Strache was not anyone at the time, but he was Deputy FPÖ Federal Party. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: I'm sure that's not true!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And more: Strache and Rumpold were still close business contacts at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's a pretty stupid thing you're telling me!]] I remind you of another story that you have also forgotten, the story with the “New Free Newspaper”. You know the two bills about 89 400 € and 10 260 € to Meischberger's company TenVierzig. We found out in the Examining Committee: In the archives of the newspaper there are neither benevolent reports nor advertisements of Telekom. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: find negative reports on mobile phones!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The examples could continue. I would like to address one aspect that is going through the whole debate: We discuss the tasks of criminal justice – it has a task. I would like to refer once again to civil law at this point. There is the possibility that in all the procedures that the Federal Minister has mentioned – I am thinking in particular of Meischberger, Plech, and as they are all called – a private connection is explained. I assume that the Republic of Austria will also make appropriate requests on the financial procuratorship. In particular, the commissions paid in the real estate sector, the privatisation of the federal apartments, amounting to €9,961 million. It's about the Terminal Tower in Linz: 200 000 € to Meischberger. It's about the justice tower: twice €600 000, once to Plach. And it's about the property, the super-edificate on the Nordbergstraße, with 708,000 € to Meischberger. No one knows what achievements these rulers have actually accomplished. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Corruption is a danger to every society and ultimately also to democracy. We believe that we, as legislators, have already taken necessary measures at the legislative level, but we must, of course, try together to prevent corruption in any other way in the future in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5647	Mr Hornek has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5669	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mrs. Federal Ministers! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The EIA is clear that an investigative committee is an important instrument for parliamentary and political control. If there have been errors, these are to be shown and consequences will be merciless – of course, even if it concerns one's own area, even if it is still so unpleasant. This committee of inquiry to clarify allegations of corruption was the most comprehensive and multi-layered in the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen. It should be noted that most of the Committee's decisions have been adopted unanimously, both in relation to the subject matter of proof and to the persons to be loaded, and the timetable has been set unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen! There were 53 session days, 1.6 million pages were available as documents, 132 persons were available in 163 surveys – some people came to us repeatedly. This was documented in the form of stenographic protocols with more than 5 000 pages. Ladies and gentlemen! From the outset, we have noted from the ÖVP that an investigation committee is a problem in parallel to public prosecutor's investigations, especially with regard to the rights of dismissal. In the same way, we have expressed concerns about the Presidency of the Moser Members from the outset. Unfortunately, both of them have proved themselves true in the course of the committee – with Mrs Moser being given a little protection, because unfortunately she was very often dependent on the daily goodwill of Mr Oberdecker Pilz and was kept on the short band. With regard to democracy policy, which is very worrying – four parties have made a request, and the President is trying to reinterpret it – it must be noted that it was absolutely necessary to give the impression that Mrs Moser was tied to Mr Pilz's gang. The whole committee, which is cross-group, provided a large amount of material work. The issues of evidence were systematically and cleanly worked out, and cooperation was even partnership in some ways. But what cannot be tolerated is the abuse of the Committee on Political Show. It is also unacceptable how individual Members with unspoiled information persons have been treated under the protection of immunity, while respecting human rights and constitutionally protected fundamental rights. This is not only my way of thinking, but I am allowed to do so from the “Small Newspaper” of the 18th century. Based on a contribution by Mr Wolfgang Simonitsch on October 22, 2012 under the title “Green decker demagazines” quote the impression of a journalist: “Even the green “parade-recovery” Peter Pilz, who has also shaped this U-committee like no other, went up to the high level again.” – So far acceptable. And on top of that: “He also had to listen to a lot of criticism. There's a lot to it. The 58-year-old has become a problem bearer himself for well - meaning companions. Not only because he himself used to question ungainly persons in the committee like criminals. Like a major inquisitor, Pilz takes the unlawful right to describe before his questions a horror from files, but also from his imagination, which makes witnesses look as bad as possible.” I quote: “In doing so, he usually leaves listeners unclear, which is proven and what is not. This amalgam of knowledge and faith – where mushroom inevitably and according to statements always tends promptly and quickly to the most slumbery acceptance – also pummels in microphones and notebooks.” For reasons of time, I cannot tell you the whole content of this article, but I recommend the reading of the entire text. In order to establish the Committee of Inquiry as a minority right, as it is constantly raised by the Greens, a holistic view is needed. If you are trying to achieve the so-called German model, you also have to make it clear and clear that there is a very different culture of discussion there, for example, respectful handling of information persons and fellow Members, actual confidentiality and many other aspects that you might mention here. However, this model cannot be combined with the methods of a Mr Peter Pilz, which reminds of North Korean. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The evidence themes Telekom and BUWOG, Tetron and ads, gambling and citizenship have been correctly edited. The rest of the investigation work lies with our judicial system, which I trust to a great extent. Dear ladies and gentlemen! But let me also say thank you to those people who have worked hundreds, sometimes thousands of hours in this committee very intensively and constructively to work out old loads and to provide a basis for the future. And not for the first time, our Mrs. Federal Minister for Justice, in response to the question, has noticed with a positive and very committed basic attitude to justice, but this is the principle. – Dear Mrs. Federal Minister, I thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5748	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5769	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I was actually glad that Federal Minister Stöger was here, because there could be one with discuss the question of why some speakers have a persistent red-green or color-blindness. It is repeatedly spoken by the FPÖ and by “FPÖ-Gorbach” and other people. I don't know. Is that conscious? Do people not know which party career someone has brought, or is it just about the insulting of the FPÖ? - Don't worry. I also do not want to take part in the mud battles of the new club general Lugar, where discussion is now underway, a law is supposed to cost €100 000. This is from the BZÖ-Canada fraction. From the BZÖ-Vienna Group: A Member of Parliament costs €500 000. And then each other is picked up. – All this is really not what would be good for the reputation of this house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Lugar, you too are called upon, together with your non-present and non-tax-paying party leader, to take care of what you give of yourself, but also a little bit. It also applies to you. And to Mr Petzner, who is not present right now: Well, I don't know what you actually call in the economy or in the newspapers a managing director who didn't do anything that didn't say anything? They used to say to such a person “highlifter. ” This is likely to have changed too. And probably he will not have done and done anything for this because on the following party day he then insidiously did not argue against the change of Carinthian to FPÖ or FPK, but, quite the contrary, rather bitterly lamented and almost cried on public stage that he could not go along, and he telephoned with the Scheuch brothers until the night. This will probably have been precisely for the reason that everything is so “evil. ” Let's talk about it. Another word about Mr Tamandl, who has severely criticized Mr Pilz's report. I don't want to join your criticism, Mrs. Tamandl. Why does one leave just now, where the Greens are concerned about the Federal mandates and where anyone who has no safe place is simply looking for the public, the Grand Inquisitor Pilz is not simply his show? – She knows it now, after a three-quarters investigation committee, every normal, serious journalist. Who's going with him? – Always those who are constantly affected journalists who believe in him anyway. These are the “embedded green journalists. ” All the others who research behind his words, such as a Hedi cutting in the “Press”, do not fall on it anymore. Let's go, please, do it! – Pilz has his show, he has his joy, and maybe then he wins the mandate he needs again to not only be in the poor community apartment or go back to Kapfenberg, but perhaps also give us some ideas here in the House. If I then hear from the Greens and partly also the SPÖ, the period from 2000 to 2006, that was the worst thing you can imagine, then I think of it: If you just mathematically counted the so-called and claimed, and not only the claimed, but the realistic figures together, then the time after 2006 is not so bad either. As yet, I do not want to start from the “ couple of millions for Werner” and I could still list a whole list – while you “at random” are always only ex-FPÖ or FPÖ people. The participation of the financial procurator in history with the ÖBB inserates, which would also be very pleased. I'm excited to see if that's going to happen. I don't think that's going to happen, because if you hear that the Managing Directors, for example, the ASFINAG – and there was a date drawn with 1. ==References== October Managing Directors were and came a few days before and that they are still being led as accused, then you come slowly, but surely on it: There might be a few managing directors' farmers' victims in order to make a state secretary and a minister look good in the final effect. Mrs Federal Minister Karl, I ask you here: Let the prosecutor work, let them work independently, but also look at what comes out that there are not a few political peasants somewhere and the actual perpetrators get away from them! For me, of course, the presumption of innocence is also valid. Whoever it was not and is acquitted in a court judgment is otherwise, politically, acquitted of responsibility. But all those who have clap themselves in mud battles and are spoken guilty are very likely to be taken in the drawing.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5839	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5860	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Appreciate members of the government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to address a few words to the FPÖ at the beginning of my speech, which I believe are losing reality. If we speak today of robbers, I can remind the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ that you too have three so-called robbers in their ranks, i.e. Strutz, Linder and Jury, ladies and gentlemen, who did not have the FPÖ's mandate, but who sit on a mandate from Jörg Haider. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Strache party had 3 percent at the National Council election in Carinthia, where we should leave the church in the village. Turn in front of your own door! These three Members of Parliament voted in 2008 for the election party “BZÖ – List Jörg Haider”. [[Calls and calls between representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Now to the Greens' urgent need and to the Committee of Inquiry. The Enlightenment was good and right, we all agree. Some laws have emerged from this Enlightenment and many improvements have been made. The turning off of the investigation committee by red and black is unfortunately a scandal, since at least we agree on the opposition. The fact that the Committee of Inquiry is going to be a minority right is that there is a consensus here in the House; unfortunately, only the Red and Black Members are not at their word when it comes to the vote. I can remind you that I was here on 15 May. This year, I have tabled a request which has not found your support, ladies and gentlemen. I can remind you of that at this point. Now to Mr Pilz's urgent urgency and to the 680-page report, which is partly questionable, because it will also publish information and documents which should not be published, whose publication could be criminal, and where you, Mr Pilz, perhaps listening to me, are hiding under the cover of your immunity. [[Abg. May. Kogler: These are quotations!]] I cannot tell myself – and I agree with Mr Petzner’s words – that this is a distraction maneuver and an attempt to put your own precarious situation in the foreground of your party’s list setting here. If you look at the newspapers, you can read that just seven men are fighting for the fourth place on the federal list. In addition to you, this is your colleague Karl Oellinger, who is sitting in the National Council, Mr Rossmann and four others. We must therefore be excited about the way in which the sawing of armchairs continues to go to the Greens in December of this year, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] With regard to the large scandal announced by Pilz, in conjunction with investigations concerning the Lakeside Foundation, I may suggest that you perhaps pay more attention to the media. I should like to quote Mr Schönegger, who told the ORF Carinthia the following: “This could not be true at all, said the Foundation’s board and new Kärntner Landesholding CEO Hans Schönegger to the ORF: Research and education projects have been financed with money and, above all, interest from the Foundation. Most of the money is still available. And it can be proved that Haider or the BZÖ had not received a cent.” Finally, I would like to put a question into the room or perhaps comment on a rumor, or I would be particularly pleased if Mr Pilz would comment on this rumor concerning his activities in Angola or Cuba. Were you there only for coffee harvesting or did you do other things there, how infamously can be heard? That would certainly be very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5925	Mrs Mag. Musiol. 3 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e5946	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Much has been said about confidence in politics and the reputation of this House. I have to tell you the truth: These are discussions that we have been holding in public for weeks, months, always in connection with changes in our democracy. But what They have not been able to do anything here today to contribute to the importance of politics, nor to restoring confidence in politics here. I can also tell you why. You would have had the opportunity today to have a serious discussion on the fight against corruption in Austria on the basis of a report which contains 680 pages of facts. I would like to stress once again the Minister for Justice or her answer to the question. It is sad that we must highlight a serious response to the question, because that should be the standard. But At least here you have shown that it is also possible. All the other speakers of all four other political groups, instead of bringing up contentions here, have taken place in any motivational research, mutual adaptations, mutual accusations – of manpower robbery over other stories and motivational research, who has done what is why – in order to distract from what you have actually done with the turning of this committee of inquiry, namely to cover up what you have to cover up in your own ranks! We are clearly not involved, and we have shown this with this report, among other things. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Weninger and Mag. Widmann.]] The top of this distraction was the statement by Mrs Tamandl. Mr President, I do not understand why you are not calling for an order. have. It has made a very clear animal comparison and here, in an inhuman and despicable way, continues what was tried by all the other four political groups already weeks ago, namely to adapt our investigative committee chairman Gabriela Moser here and to operate a het. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] – No, no, by calling her cold and saying that she cannot defend herself against my colleague Pilz, you're giving her a coat. You did that weeks ago – and now you do it again! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's the end of this story: Although FPÖ and BZÖ are scandalizing the turnout of this committee, they themselves have contributed to the fact that this committee has been turned off! Not only the government parties, also FPÖ and BZÖ. I was sitting in this committee of inquiry, and I also sat in this group leader's meeting, where you have made it very clear when it came to adapting the chairman who has done an impeccable job here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That was the beginning of the end of this committee of inquiry. You don't always have to turn and act like you don't have anything to do with it. You all know, education, control is the basis for democracy. But if you continue here, then you do not need to discuss democracy reforms, election reforms, direct democracy at all, then you will not regain the confidence of the people in our work. We'll stick to it, and we promise you, we won't leave you here either.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6027	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's There are still 3 minutes of speaking time available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6049	Mr President. Twice respect of the unusual side, namely by me. First of all, I should like to pay tribute to Mrs. Minister. We have not often experienced in this house that a urgent request has been answered so comprehensively and in detail. Respect! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] By the way, my respect also applies to those officials who had only three hours to gather it all together. You have to say that too. This too is an achievement to be respected. [[New applause with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Respect, too, I say – not in view of the content, but in view of the scope of this report of the Greens. Respect! This is a huge effort! We know in particular how difficult it is to produce such a comprehensive report if you do not have an office. I would like to take this opportunity to quote a part of this report. Which is also unusual: The report is not only taxing, but it is also excruciating. It is de facto, if one wants to do so, a little in the tradition of § 3 of the Criminal Procedure, after which an objective body actually has the obligation to bring load and relief material together. This is, by the way, a principle of the Criminal Procedure, which has been lost somewhere in the public prosecutors, Mrs Minister. Perhaps in the future you will look a little at the fact that this will find a balance again, because taxation and tax will not be sought in the public prosecutor's office to the same degree. [[OBJECTIVES]] I quote page 356 of this Green Report. Remarkable is the chapter on gambling law. There was the accusation that the BZÖ had to be bought from the casinos to prevent the evasion of the gambling monopoly here in the High House, namely in the interest of casinos. On page 356 of the Green Report is literally – I quote –: “On the other hand, the investigations have shown that the aberration of the gambling monopoly planned by Novomatic ultimately failed with representatives of the ÖVP and not the BZÖ.” – Listen, listen! And then we're going to go on: ‘The payment to BZÖ should therefore not have been the decisive reason.’ Thanks a lot! It has therefore also taken this accusation out of space. Mrs. Minister, you have also read from your list that a trial is pending at the Salzburg Public Prosecutor's Office, and you have added that an end is not foreseeable. – Maybe you take page 356 and send it or maybe we will send it, then the main reason for the investigations is that it is not possible. The BZÖ has not been bought, will never be bought and is lupen pure in this matter! I would like to point this out. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I would like to say something about what has already been going on, and that is what I would like to say here: The problem of both the Committee of Inquiry and the investigative authorities is one. It is not even your own problem, but that of your representative, namely: The person in a committee of inquiry is not equal to the perpetrator, just as the defendant in criminal proceedings is not the same convicted person. I think these are principles that must be discussed again in Austria. The problem we have is that we have a degree of media prejudice in such things that are disrespectless and no longer acceptable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Everyone who is led for an advertisement as an accused person is already convicted and is in fact already being convicted, and similar scenes are, of course, also available in a committee of inquiry. We have to get away from that. You have to take it the way it is. The Procuratorate is a subjective prosecutor of the government and no part of the objective jurisdiction! You have to take note of this! It is the courts that decide – and not the prosecutors, nor a committee of inquiry, which is in its power to wish to be objective. I think that if you discuss and formulate this a little bit better, then you also come to a more objective view of some scandals.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6161	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Pilz, colleagues and colleagues on the consequences of the investigation committee on the clarification of corruption accusations. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to agree. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the freezing of political relations. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. The application is rejected. [[16:22:33]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6221	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Members Petzner, colleagues and colleagues to set up an investigation committee on the emergency nationalisation of Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank, municipal credit Austria AG and Österreichischer Volksbanken-AG. The request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6289	We are going into the debate. For the purposes of Article 57a of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time in this debate shall be 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reason. Statements by members of the Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6316	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fekter, especially Mrs Fekter! I'm glad that you too have found time to come. We again request the establishment of an investigation committee in accordance with § 33 GOG on the bank notes of Hypo Alpe-Adria, municipal credit Austria AG and Austrian Volksbanken-AG and ÖVAG. We ask for such a committee of inquiry not only for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, because, from this point of view, we here in the House always want to explain the actual backgrounds of these emergency nationalizations, but also because, since the last request, which was rejected by the two government parties SPÖ and ÖVP, very important new findings have been given, which fundamentally support and support this request for the establishment of such a committee of inquiry. Let us begin with the subject-matter 3 of the Austrian Volksbanken-AG, which is part of this request. What has happened between the first request we have already made and this request, ladies and gentlemen? Documents have appeared – and you have to imagine this: The local credit has cost the Austrian taxpayers €4.5 billion so far, namely this partial nationalization, which was carried out at the beginning of 2012, and now secret documents from the Ministry of Finance have been shown to prove that the then Finance Secretary Reinhold Lopatka and then Minister of Finance Josef Pröll were fully and comprehensively informed of this emerging debacle up to three years before this partial stateization in early 2012 – and not only that, but that the competent ministers and the State Secretary Loptka have not only been informed but have not done anything! This non-trade cost the Austrian taxpayer € 4.5 billion so far! This is a huge damage, and we want and need to clarify this huge damage in such a committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] Very specific about these documents that are available to us: At the beginning of February 2009, then State Secretary Lopatka was informed by a Volksbanker himself that there was a wrong situation there. A warning was given that the participation capital that the State has already invested in the ÖVAG cannot be repaid and interest paid back. Already in 2009, warning was given: We can't pay back! It was warned that the balance sheets did not agree that the figures and documents supplied by ÖVAG to the Ministry of Finance had nothing to do with the reality that there was a large-scale use of balance sheet cosmetics. The Secretary of State for Finance Lopatka was informed of all these facts. And how did he react? – He told the competent banker that he would like to go to the prosecutor's office, and that's it. That's all he did. Today we know that this non-negotiation cost us €4.5 billion. Next point: ==References== There is another warning on September 2010, after the first one in 2009 did not produce anything. ==References== September 2010 Finanzminister Pröll is sent a five-page written document that was lost for years in the Ministry of Finance and suddenly appeared again – what a coincidence! In this five-page document, the state of the Austrian People's Banks says that a huge wheel has been turned here and that there is a danger, that is, quote, “the danger that the people responsible for the disaster can cause a new disaster ( )”. This warning on these five pages was issued on 14 May. ==References====External links== And what did Pröll do, ladies and gentlemen? – Nothing he did this September 2010, he did nothing at all! As a result, this bank had to be declared necessary at the beginning of 2012. It is particularly interesting what justification the then Minister of Finance Pröll has for this non-negotiation today. He has made a well-known statement that many persons are meeting in committee of inquiry. He explains on this paper and this letter that he unfortunately can no longer remember. – Mr Pröll, former Minister of Finance, if you look at: It is really a cleaner and a scandal that your non-remember costs the Austrian taxpayer billion euros! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] This is the responsibility of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Also on the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria, which is to be another subject of investigation, namely the first, further facts have appeared. Ladies and gentlemen! There are also developments in Bavaria in parallel. Also in Bavaria you choose next year. What discussion is there in Bavaria? Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, listen carefully now! Their Bavarian SPD colleagues, together with the green Bavarian Landtagsfraction, are fighting for another investigation committee to be set up in Bavaria to debacle the Hypo Alpe-Adria. The tension is the reason. What is the reasoning behind the Bavarian SPD politician? What is the reasoning behind Bavarian green politicians? It goes in the direction that there is a suspicion that bankruptcy has taken place there. Quote of the green financial expert Eike Hallitzky from the Landtag in Bavaria: “This smells very strongly after election fraud, because it was basically a bankruptcy ()”. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] In 2008 one had only supported the hypo with €3 billion to keep the gap under the ceiling before the election. This is exactly the same argument I brought here a few weeks ago. I really don't understand, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, why you're making the ÖVP here the wall that is responsible for all these billion debacles, and why you don't show the same up-to-date and committed behavior as your Bavarian SPD colleagues. I would like this from you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is, in Bavaria, this Committee of Inquiry is very open to discussion. I'm sure he'll be there too. I would like to give a further example of why we also need this Committee of Inquiry in Austria. The need for this committee of inquiry shows a request from the Minister of Finance Fekter. Then: It is the question to ask – and it is important to say that here too – why the Minister of Finance has simply lied to Fekter of this House, which has shownly misinformed this Parliament, why the Minister of Finance Fekter has lied to this House! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] This is evident from their reply to a parliamentary request that I made on 1 January. ==References====External links==* Official website I asked Mrs Fekter in question 8 – I quote –: “How high are the precisely broken down liabilities of the Hypo Alpe Adria to the Bavarian Landesbank and until when do they have to be eradicated?” That was my question. And the answer should have been, as Mrs Fekter now admits: It's 3 billion. But what did Mrs Fekter answer a few weeks later? – She answered – quote –: "The amount of the current liabilities of the HBI to the BayernLB is not known to the Federal Ministry of Finance, which is why they cannot be broken down either. - Lie one. She says: You're not familiar. – That is clearly wrong! Lie two: In this answer, Mrs Fekter said: ‘The Republic of Austria has not committed itself to eliminating these liabilities.’ Mrs Fekter, Mr Söder was with you from a few weeks ago and said: I want my money back! – He meant these 3 billion! I ask you here: Why did you lie to this House twice in the context of a parliamentary question? Explain the motive to me! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll tell you what your motive was. – You have lied to this House because you wanted to cover up the responsibility of the ÖVP Finance Minister Pröll and also your responsibility, Mrs Fekter, for this billion-dollar debacle. The fact that you are not going to get through with this and that you are also going to make this request, which we are now proposing again, namely the request to set up a committee of inquiry to clarify the question of ÖVAG, to clarify the Hypo Alpe-Adria and to clarify the local credit and also to set up initiatives in the direction of public prosecutors. Only last week did I present a comprehensive statement of the facts for breach of the information obligation in accordance with § 255 and § 81 of the Stock Exchange Act, due to negligent impairment of creditor interests in accordance with § 159 of the Criminal Code, for balance sheet falsification in accordance with § 255 of the Stock Exchange Act and for infidelity in accordance with § 153 of the Criminal Code against the former Executive Board Dr. Franz Pinkl, against the former Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr. Michael Kemmer and against other persons responsible for this billion-debakel of the Hypo or the Republic of Austria and the Bavarian Landesbank. I promise you: This will not be the first ad and will not remain the only ad, because – and this must also be clarified in this investigation committee – Mr. Pinkl has not only caused the pleite of the ÖVAG, where he was then the board of directors, but also the pleite of the hypo. It's the same board twice, Franz Pinkl. For the pleite of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, Franz Pinkl was rewarded with a Golden Handshake rule of €3 million and write – at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer! Because it's who decided? – The red and black Supervisory Board under the direction of former Minister Johannes Ditz. You paid €3 million of tax money to a banker! We will also clarify this, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6410	Before we go into the debate, I would like to point out the following – and some colleagues have already said this –: This does not include terms such as “sweepers”, “saurus”, “saustal”,“saustal”,“san ring of the calf”, “silence” and the like. Mr Petzner, four times the accusation of a lie. I give you a call for order because you know exactly the customs here in the house! [[Abg. Petzner: Twice! Well, if it were, it would have to be two!]] We are going into the debate. Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6456	Mr President. Mr Petzner, perhaps you should have listened to your previous speaker from your own group. In fact, Mr Westenthaler has not rightly said that we must also work on the way in which the committee of inquiry takes place, how we deal with how the Rules of Procedure work. And I also say the other question as to whether it will be a minority right, what has already been promised and what unanimity exists here in the House. That's what we'd have to do. I think it is important to clarify these questions once and then to look at the practice of dealing with this instrument in a certain way. It must then also be allowed and lived as a minority right. However, we must also ask questions about how far this minority right should go, for example whether it should include witness charges. These questions need to be clarified. Then we no longer need to hold these debates here, whether a committee of inquiry is set up or not. - That's the first thing. Secondly, I find it exciting how you keep trying to push away the responsibility at the hypo, as if you had nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Petzner: That's what the Bavarian SPD says!]] Everything she attacked outside of Bavaria cost the BayernLB billions, that's nothing new. We know this at the latest since the committee of inquiry 2007. At the time, we have already criticized and criticized this. However, it was your party that said quite proudly: We get here a strong partner who has great experience and does this here! But if you had done a 10-minute research on the Internet at that time, you would have thought that all that happened abroad in Bavaria always ended up in the disaster. Yes, the Bayern have certainly made their contribution to the fact that at least it did not get better at the hypo. But why the bank was pleading is not the crucial question! The crucial question is why it had to be made necessary and therefore cost taxpayers money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] You're right, we've already had committees of inquiry. That's why we don't need a new one. But that is the crucial question, and the answer is quite clear: The country of Carinthia is under the leadership of what I know, FPÖ, BZÖ, FPK – as that means, whether it's blue or orange, everything is there – so this group has taken irrational risks and has decided at that time liabilities of over €20 billion. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Petzner.]] If she had gone into bankruptcy, then they would have become beating! [[Abg. Jury: The ÖVP voted in favour!]] Getting Now You're not nervous! They say the ÖVP has voted in favour once. [[Abg. Jury: ( towards SPÖ) The SPÖ too!]] That's your responsibility! That you point to others where you have claimed that you were the leader in this federal state and that you have put the head of state and the finance council there, and now say: It wasn't us, because someone else voted!, it's ridiculous and embarrassing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jury: ÖVP and SPÖ voted in favour!]] Is that your way of dealing with responsibility? – You could say at least: Yes, we stand to this responsibility, it was a mistake! Yes, that cost taxpayers money! – I would expect that from you! And then maybe to say, as a supplement: But we weren't alone! – I would expect that! Stand up for your responsibility once! But what you're doing here is ridiculous. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: So we weren't alone!]] The reason is the liability that has been entered would have become shocking. And bear the main responsibility for it You both – nobody else! You can say that publicly, too. You should finally be responsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last point – that is, Mr Petzner says something that is right – is the “small opinion”. There's more or less inside, it could be that this 3 billion liquidity – that's something like a loan – is not or was a liquidity, it's a capital replacement, and they could be like equity. He doesn't say it is, but he puts it in the room. This question has to be considered. This makes my knowledge both the bank and the ministry, because that is an essential question, because that would mean that the 3 billion would not be repaid because they would no longer be credit, and that would be super-advanced, I say, for all, because that would mean that it would cost taxpayers less money. This question has to be considered, yes, only: This is something that only one court can clarify and never an investigation committee! I'm sorry. So this matter needs to be pursued, but not in an investigation committee, but it needs to be continued. [[Abg. Petzner: The SPD in Bavaria sees this differently!]] The SPD in Bavaria investigates something quite different, please, that is, how the CSU has dealt with it there and has almost tried to drag it off until after the election. [[Abg. Petzner: No!]] That's something completely different. The questions you address and which are partly correct must be resolved by the courts and not by an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6654	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6675	Mr President. High house! I can continue where Mr Krainer has just stopped. [[Abg. Petzner: This is “surprising ”!]] Name: It is a wonderful argument against your wishes, Mr Petzner, which Krainer has just brought, namely that it is indeed controversial whether the 3 billion are to be repaid or not. And precisely because of this, the Minister of Finance has rightly not said in her reply that we will repay the money. And when a Bavarian minister appears strongly in Vienna and says: I want my money back!, it's not that that's the thing yet. So that's what I'm looking for. Your argument two times once. Secondly, that is to say, the liabilities that are or may have been bilaterally daily have not been known to the Minister of Finance, in the sense that you can talk about this in a reply to a question: Do you know what the bank secret is? Do you know what ministerial execution means? The Minister of Finance should not have answered this question even if she had been aware of this. And a third thing: Your argument is rather ridiculous, because someone should have been with Lopatka now, because there should have been a multi-page paper in Pröll, which is now the reason why the banks will have to be made necessary later on. I don't think so. It is already possible that years before some already knew quite a bit about the wrong situation, that is already possible. It is even possible that in the case of the Hypo Alpe-Adria it was the case that some have already seen the gray bulbs rise, because in reality the balance sheet of the Hypo Alpe-Adria was blown up without responsibility from 4.4 to 44 billion € in the year 2000 onwards. Do you know how high the liabilities of Hypo Alpe-Adria in 2000 were? –Just 100 million €. At the end of the day, it was 21 billion who had been hanged around the country of Carinthia, where the country of Carinthia, when selling the hypo-Alpe-Adria to the Bavaria, unfortunately, “forget” God’s – under the quotation marks – the G’s layer also gave the Bayern the same message, and where the liability was there, as Minister of Finance Pröll, was faced with the situation of need to be state-owned or not. [[Abg. Petzner shakes his head no more.]] I should also like to say briefly, Mr Petzner, that: 21 billions of liabilities, which I hope will not hit in this order of magnitude à la longue, but which would certainly have been beaten by the federal government, would have been charged to the federal government if at that time we had let the Hypo Alpe-Adria as a system-related bank not only, but especially for Austria, down the stream. [[Abg. Petzner: This is a great mistake!]] [[Abg. Bucher: You should know!]] Now, Mr Bucher also intervenes in order to perhaps simplify a piece between a serious speech by Mr Westenthaler – you have surprised me positively today; this is not so often happening – and what Petzner then delivered shortly after, in the sense of presumptions and debt statements. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whoever has to experience so much political activism, who loses so much to the public by a committee of inquiry that has ended, then tries to stop it in other ways. But, Mr Petzner, you must not be caught by Krainer, by Krainer proving you: Well, what was to be examined in the area of Hypo Alpe-Adria about the need for nationalization has already been examined, for this it certainly does not need a committee of inquiry as you want it today! Let us not forget one thing – and I am still saying two or three sentences on the Court of Auditors' report on local credit: With the wisdom of looking back, you can argue with some very well. But if you look at the Court of Auditors' report on local credit, you have to say that the Court of Auditors is there. For example, in the O-tone, he speaks of the “threating inability of municipal credit” or “under great time pressure”. The Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor took part, there were night discussions. On Monday, 3rd. In November, Pröll signed the Memorandum of Understanding. External experts were involved. And, and, and so. As I said, With the wisdom of looking back! And you also have to say the following: No document notes have been made. A national economic analysis was not available. But when the hat burns, and when a hat burns – stupidly said this a few days ago here in Parliament – it really burns, because the next day the bank has the savers at the door and on the other hand has the situation that you will certainly not give any more money to all the other banks. I can continue in the economy in many cases insolvency. That can make sense. It saves jobs. This has improved the conditions. But once a bank gets into talk, then, as I said, danger is in delay. So we don't create any dagger sluggish legends. No one likes to be national in this country, at least I believe. We're the least of us. That's how the real emergency was. There is no need for an investigation committee to confirm this.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6746	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6767	Mr President. High house! Mr Westenthaler has given a bit of a line for the debate by saying that we should talk about things in a serious and, in fact, calm way, because in reality, it does not use a party if we shake each other and make political culprits. Mr Krainer has begun very calmly and emotionally, he has said: Let us first talk about the rules of a committee of inquiry, including minority law, and then let us go into the matter! But then, Mr Krainer, you have fallen back into your old party political role, and you have hit Carinthia, claimed that the Social Democrats have nothing to do with all of this. I would now like to make it clear once and for all who has actually decided the liability in Carinthia and what it looks like so that the untruth is not always claimed. The liberals are the strongest group in Carinthia, but have no majority, so that we can neither have a budget nor any liability nor any other decision. In the past, in connection with the hypo, in connection with the liabilities, in connection with the budget, we have had mutual majority voting. We had a coalition with the SPÖ, colleague Krainer. Call your comrade. Mr. Duster nods. And precisely in this phase of the coalition, which, from my point of view, was a very positive one with Peter Ambrozy, we decided to increase the liability for the Hypo Alpe-Adria. I stand by it – you said you should be responsible for it! . because this was a rescue from the bank, a rescue of 2 000 jobs, where 2 000 Carinthia were employed. You don't have to steal from it. You were there when we decided on these liabilities. That's the truth! [[Abg. Scheibner: The crane has forgotten!]] And when this coalition was broken, the ÖVP was there and gave the majority so that we can decide on the budget, where the liability is also committed annually. That's the truth, no more and no less! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means no one here can steal from this responsibility! But it's all about me – and that's why we're very much for – that we're working all this up here – all that's on the table because of accusations! In recent times, due to the opinion, due to Mr Kleiner's diary and due to the investigations, including the CSI Hypo, facts have emerged that make the period after 2006/2007 appear in a completely different light. In the past, the courts have worked out the period before 2006 before the nationalization. There are processes pending and similar. There have been two U-committees, one has found more or less. But, the questions that are now asking are much bigger in the dimension. This is about liabilities that the Republic has now taken over. And if you believe the facts that are now on the table, you have to say: They are much, much higher than what has ever been decided in the country of Carinthia – and they have not been necessary at all. The nationalization of the Bavarian bank – I say that consciously, because at the time of nationalization it was not the country of Carinthia but the Bayern owners – this nationalization was not necessary. And it has been done negligently: These 3,1 billion €, which were withdrawn on Friday, because it was known that the Austrian taxpayers were at risk on Monday. – These points are really to be clarified. This goes much further, because the Austrian taxpayer has felt deprived of any means of obtaining claims against the Bayern or the Hypo Alpes Bank due to the way in which the Austrian taxpayer has been elected. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That is why we are in favour of a complete clarification here, we are in favour of being examined here. And one more request, Mr Krainer: Please call your comrades in Carinthia! Let's tell the story so that you don't always say wrong here – "the untruth" I can't say, but: wrong – report at the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6838	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6860	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I find this request to be justified through and through, even if you want to go to the hypo Alpe-Adria and the events there may be different views. As tragic and stupid as it is, it is still not all unexplained, and the thing always gets new aspects, not to say: Turns. We are not now closed to these approaches of the BZÖ Group. Just because the matter has always been looked at in the past until 2007 and we have different opinions there, this cannot lead to one not looking at what has happened, I give you completely right. Whether we assess the events from 2007 onwards would be an open question. All the more so because of the stamina and the swings and turns that arise, it is actually and quite a case for a U committee, because there are a few – and above all, political – relationships to be further clarified. And indeed: It is not a coincidence, and it is well thought out and worn, Mr Krainer, Member of the Klubobmann Cap, that the Germans – the Bavarians – have, as mentioned above, also wanted to examine this again in the case of Bavarian views – and the protection of the tax funds there. By the way, the cooperation of the investigation committees – that of the Carinthian Landtag and the Bavarian investigations – has not worked so badly at all. Now in Austria everything is better, we have already heard that – I mean it really seriously – but at that time we could have cut off a beautiful disc, which is the cooperation of the prosecutor's office, but I mean the Munich prosecutor's office, and the investigation committees. In any event, I expect to see new insights so far that we are doing well now to set up a corresponding committee if you want to do so in this respect. But you don't get to take a short look at the history until 2007. The swap losses of 2004 were certainly the worst. That can happen. At the time, one may have had the suspicion that the one in the Treasury that caused this was strangely in a special close relationship with the Executive Director of the Bank. Let's talk about it. There is a certain failure. I think that's half-explained. The fact that the staff of the bank are being beaten up, one then takes out the documents in the hospital and the prosecution “snares” three times over, that’s a little bit more conspicuous. Let's talk about it. Of course, the business model of Hypo Alpe-Adria – Mr Bartenstein has described this very strikingly globally and also in the temporal development – was in reality, and in the end one should have seen it for a long time, a completely overheated press machine. However, I am still wondering what financial market supervision has actually done in this way – the glorious financial market supervision, which has been established under the now inexpressible finance minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] What a “bail ” this was here in the house: A new authority – independent, super! Soon a few hundred people were employed; a few hundred people with me do not know what qualification, certainly with the right shining party book. There too – you have to see the positive again – everything is getting better now. I have now also gained confidence in financial market supervision. That too is serious. But then? - I wouldn't have conjured it! The investigative committee in 2007 on the events in the banking sector has been very concerned. After all, we could and should not examine precise banking operations in the private sense, but the failure of former chairman in the supervision all the time. And there was a lot of evidence. The history of the hypo can then be described in this way regarding its business model: If the country of Carinthia is always liable for bonds issued by the bank, and the money coming in is simply given back into any kind of credit, yes that can't go well in the long run. But as something like this is possible under the eyes of the sheet of notes and the FMA, it remains a secret. By the way, that would still be worth an investigation. Let's talk about it. The criminal business with the East Mafia in the Balkans – be it! – I remember that Mr Holub and I were personally threatened when we started an experimental balloon and asked what was there with the real-life investments. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] And so it could continue to be written again and again. I'm just telling you one thing: Let us leave all of this away from me, but only what has been happening since 2007 – what the applicant's intention is – is certainly also worthy of some reconnaissance. How far we go back would be to find out in consensus, that is still a majority right. But in order to achieve this, it will also be necessary here to establish the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. This will accompany us throughout the legislative period. Finally, I assume we will agree, Mr Cap. Just you're gonna have a nice part in your biography, because you wouldn't stand anything else.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6951	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e6972	Mr President. I am pleased, Mr Kogler, about the new reality of the whole House, which I note here. Because what is this about? – It’s about having three big banks that had great difficulties. One was more close to SPÖ, namely the municipal credit, the ÖVAG was more close to ÖVP and the Hypo Alpe-Adria, one can say, was FPÖ-/BZÖ-near. [[Abg. Krainer: The municipal credit has heard the ÖVAG!]] – colleague Krainer, calm down now! Stay calm once and listen to the materiality for once! I think this is a matter of clarifying things. [[Abg. Krainer: The municipal credit was a daughter of the ÖVAG!]] Oh, Mrs. Schmied has nothing to do with the municipal credit, with KA Finanz AG? Nothing at all, nothing at all? - Okay. [[Abg. Krainer: But she was still a daughter of the ÖVAG!]] - Well, I take note of that. Maybe you'll read that this is different. In fact, we need to clarify things and, more importantly, draw the right conclusions from them. One thing is important: How can we possibly save billions of liabilities and payments because it saves taxpayers costs? In principle, this must be the main line, and if we meet there, we may have done something constructive together. Bank support alone cost €2.5 billion in 2012. The deficit amounted to 3.1 percent and would be only 2.4 percent without bank support – and there is still a further 1.2 billion € possible. In 2013, there will be €2.4 billion. These are huge sums we're talking about here! To the Hypo Alpe-Adria, and I think there's already a lot to be made clear: Mr Bartenstein, of course there were the country's liabilities – you said €22 billion, I know of €19 billion – and they were jointly decided by the state government. There was also the SPÖ, there was also the ÖVP with it, you have to say that quite clearly. So it was not a single entry of a country chief, as all the members of the government were involved. The fact is, for example, that your financial expert Androsch said that a maximum of €6 billion could become real. So there is also a great difference between what is on the paper, and what could take place in real political terms, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What I don't understand is that in 2007 the Bank was sold to the Germans, to the Bavarian Landesbank, which then operates expansive business, although it knew exactly – and there was a lot of advice from the National Bank, Deloitte, et cetera, et cetera – that this bank is partly in the Adriatic area – in the area of Slovenia, Bosnia, Serbia, Croatia – and that there is a certain risk, but it still runs an expansion course – that must have a reason! – and that Austria appears to be loyal to the government agreement then going back and taking this bank back and leaving the Germans completely out of liability. That is completely incomprehensible! Why should the Austrian taxpayer pay for the failure of the Bayerische Landesbank, which was the main owner? – You have to explain that once! There is no rational explanation for this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next Topic: Capital increase. There has been €3 billion as a so-called hidden equity grant – that is what Mr Kleiner says. The interesting thing is that BLB required 4 percent interest for this. So the Bavarian Landesbank requires 4 percent interest from its daughter in Carinthia! That was 130 million € in the year! This is unique, which is usually not the case with Austrian banking associations, that such high interest rates are required for mutual money awards. In total, over the three years mentioned, the interest rate was €500 million, which in the end the taxpayer will still have to cover. The death penalty came in 2009 when the Bavarian Landesbank deducted €1.1 billion in capital. That was basically negligent Krida, so you can call it calm, because that was the death blow for this bank, because then the capital just missed. Therefore, it will be clear: Which officials are responsible for this? Which politicians are responsible for this? Was Pröll with you? What did the FMA do, what didn't she do? Were other politicians involved in Carinthia? – Let’s finally stop the mutual debt allocations, because that doesn’t bring us any further! Today, we from the BZÖ have submitted the request to impose a refund barrier for these €3 billion. That would be the job of Mrs Fekter. I have recently seen Mrs Fekter and Mr Söder, Bavarian Finance Minister, on the Report “Report”, and I must say that their relationship with each other was not very friendly. That is why we want to support Mrs Finanzminister's reimbursement barrier as a support. This €3 billion we will not repay, and thus we will ultimately get rid of all the money worries of financing the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Then the taxpayer doesn't pay for it. You just have to want it and do it, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ! You have to want something good for taxpayers, and we invite you to support our request. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] But, as I say, it is also a matter of clarifying other things – the final sentence, Mr President – in connection with the Hypo Alpe-Adria: Counsellors – Ex-Kanzler Gusenbauer 90 000, Ex-SPÖ-Mann Lederer 456 000 €. This too must be clarified, quite objectively, without prejudgment. That is what we want to know, because we want this bank to have a future in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7060	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7096	Mr President. High house! We from the Stronach team are in favour of the U-committee on Hypo Alpe-Adria. We are for full transparency. The "Standard" wrote in August of systematic disguises with the help of the Bavarian CSU and of bankruptcy in the case of Hypo Alpe-Adria. I suggest we clarify this, since we don't think we have anything to cover up. I think it would be in all sense for transparency and clarity to be created. What else can Austria cover up, ladies and gentlemen? What do you want to hide here? – We could create transparency, we could show what was done there. If we have nothing to hide, it is, I think, right to set up an investigation committee. Let's get all the sleeves up and pick up the thing! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to clarify a few more things, since here several claims and accusations have been made in the direction of Team Stronach. First of all, Mr Rosenkranz and Mr Strache, who have spoken about the promotion of the club: You have three former members of the BZÖ sitting in your ranks, have you not received any club promotion for them? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Get@item: intable Text You don't give them back to Parliament's management? . I believe that there is also a mandate support for these Members who also take you. So don't point your finger at others! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: thematic failure!]] The BZÖ always speaks of a “mandate robbery”. Ladies and gentlemen, we recall 2005 when the BZÖ split off from the FPÖ. Colleague Bucher was then in the National Council, but I don't think he was sitting on a BZÖ mandate, but that was a FPÖ mandate. So stay with the truth, my colleague. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I would also like to refer to the accusation of the purchase of a mandate, which is constantly being raised here. Ladies and gentlemen! I really have enough of that, therefore: None of us were bought! Put evidence on the table or keep silent forever! I will now prove this to you by means of an example. Ladies and gentlemen, we recall Mr Spadiut's announcement. Mr Spadiut claimed that he had received 15 000 € per month from Stronach. I have a newspaper article, “Little Newspaper, ” published on 28 May. August 2012: “Then I will become Pope”. I quote from it: “For health, seniors would have introduced the ‘Frank’ troupe Spadiut. And for the rhetorical. ‘Because the Stronach can’t always talk alone, but the others have not been rhetorical about it’, had been argued.’ – And now it’s coming – hear [[Abg. Petzner: on the matter! Mr President, on the matter!]] You're on time, Mr. Petzner. –: ‘And with money: He, Spadiut, didn’t ask how much he could take off: ‘That could have been interpreted as an interest.’” Ladies and gentlemen, I have transferred colleagues of mine. Mr. Spadiut, I remember you differently, it's a pity for you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] You should stick to the truth! – Make You yourself a picture of what's being played here. They talked about not throwing dirt. Ladies and gentlemen, throw You don't have dirt when someone has a pure vest! And I have a pure vest, as I stand here. [[Call:To the case]] If you claim something else, then go to court with me, confirm that, present the evidence! But you can't present, so I'm asking you to keep silent forever. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Stay fair and stay You are in the truth, ladies and gentlemen, then it is better in Parliament and then we can work reasonablely for Austria, which is in the sense of the citizens, the population! If we work together reasonablely and honestly for Austria, then we are on the right path!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7196	I'll close the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Members Petzner, ladies and gentlemen, to set up an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The application does not find a majority and is rejected. [[17:07:37]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-11-08-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00178_d7e7234	At today's meeting, the self-employed received applications from 2106/A(E) to 2110/A. Questions 12992/J to 13000/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 13 March. November, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
