ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1133	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'm opening the 172. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocol of 171. Meeting of 5. In October 2012, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Hornek, Steibl, Kickl and Magn are reported as prevented. Honey. [[10:16:48]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1167	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall have the following contents: A. Negotiations received: 1. Written questions: 12747/J to 12787/J; 2. Government templates: Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on the transplant of human organs (Organ Transplantation Act – OTPG) is amended and the Federal Law on Hospitals and Curriculums, the Medicines Act, the tissue safety law and the Federal Law on Health Austria GmbH is amended (1935 d.B.), Bundesgesetz, which adopts a Health Telecommunications Act 2012 and amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Genetics Act and the Criminal Code (ELGA-G) (1936 d.B.), Federal Act on the establishment of a security control system, the safeguarding of nuclear materials and installations and on export control to ensure the peaceful use of nuclear energy (Safety Control Act 2013 – SKG 2013) (1937 d.B.). B. Assignments: 1. Assignments since the last meeting in accordance with section 32a para. 4, 74d para. 2, 80 para. 1, 100 para. 4, 100b para. 1 and 100c para. 1: Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives: Petitions No. 171 concerning ‘The use of the single-track bus tracks’, presented by Member Dr Wolfgang Spadiut, Citizens' Initiative No. 50 concerning ‘Reimbursement of the injustice in the field of care and home education’; Assignments to other committees at the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs: Citizens' Initiative No. 49 on the transfer of the pension insurance system from the Federal Chamber of Architects and Engineering Consuls (Wohlfahrtsanstalt) to the State Pension Insurance System (FSVG); 2. Assignments at this meeting: (a) for preliminary advice: Financial Committee: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and Romania and Additional Protocol amending the Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Romania, of the one part, and the other part, of the other part, of the one part, and the other part, of the other part, of the other part. On 1 March 2005, Bucharest signed an agreement to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth, including the Protocol (1934, e.g.), Amendment 2087/A(E) by Mr Stefan Petzner, Members of Parliament, on the suspension of the refund barrier pursuant to § 14 para. 1 of the Austrian federal law on equity-replaced company benefits via the Hypo Alpe-Adria, Amendment 2088/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, ladies and gentlemen, on the rapid reform of the penalty and the implementation of a kilometre-dependent bill with a negative tax effect on the discharge of commuters; Main Committee: Amendment 2085/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in accordance with Rule 49b B-VG on the conduct of a popular survey on the creation of a minority right to set up committee of inquiry; Justice Committee: Question No 2086/A(E) by Mr Carmen Gartelgruber, Members of the Committee on the Rights of Visit for Grandparents; Committee on Agriculture and Forestry: Amendment 2081/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the protection of bees in the context of maize cultivation in Austria; Education Committee: Question No 2083/A(E) by Mrs Mathias Venier, Question 2084/A by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act, BGBl.Nr. 1/1930, amended; Transport Committee: Amendment 2089/A by Mr Anton Heinzl, Mr Johannes Juryenschlager, Mr Co-workers concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1371	Mr Petzner, Members of Parliament, asked that the written question, put at the beginning of the meeting, be dealt with in an urgent manner by Mr Petzner, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry concerning the Black Inserator, or the Black Channels of the Ministry of Life. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. The meeting will be held live on ORF 2 from 13.15 a.m. to 15.10 a.m. and from ORF III in full length. I am now interrupting the sitting by 1.15 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1415	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[13:16:12]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Stefan Petzner, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management on the Black Inserator (Black Inserator) Berlakovich or the Black Channels of the Ministry of Life (12788/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1452	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 12788/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1675	I give Mr Petzner as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1696	Madam President. Federal Minister Berlakovich! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first place, I should like to thank the Federal Minister for abandoning his trip to India and his search for the Indian advertising guru and for putting himself in charge of the House today. It is also important for the Minister to present himself to the House because we have a lot to discuss. I would also like to tell the spectators at home that this special meeting is the first of three special meetings of this House, which have the following background: They are a joint response from the opposition parties to the fact that the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP are not interested in the investigation of corruption, are not interested in a misrepresentation of maladministration, are not interested in Austria becoming a bit cleaner and better, but the two government parties have made it impossible to clarify corruption in that country by turning off the investigation committee. - That's the truth. And perhaps some party president, who goes home from important party days with 83 per cent, also thinks a little about the fact that some of the officials – in this case Werner Faymann – have withdrawn his trust, because the Federal Chancellor – and that is already unique! – refused to speak and reply to the investigative committee, while it is natural for other German Chancellors – I may refer to Chancellor Merkel – to be available to a parliamentary investigative body, as the investigative committee suggests. Perhaps Mr Faymann will think a little bit about it when he licks the wounds he suffered at his party meeting. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Again: This is the first of three special sessions. Today it is about Minister Berlakovich and his advertising activity, and we will continue to be concerned with the award of citizenship and the Telekom East, where the government parties are also responsible for the fact that we were only able to consult an information person on Telekom East transactions, which are about billions of heavy transactions, which have also caused significant damage to Telekom Austria, but also to the Austrian taxpayers. But let us start today, as we have said, at this first special meeting, with Minister Berlakovich or also the "Black Inserator" Berlakovich, as he can be called. I would like to say at the outset that it is important for the BZÖ as an entrepreneurship party to stress that advertising is basically nothing bad, nothing negative, nothing unpleasant. [[Ironic cheerfulness with SPÖ and ÖVP]] We have many advertising agencies in this country, graphic artists, printing companies, media that do great work, which also create and secure jobs. No one has anything against these companies and against advertising in our country. But what we have something, ladies and gentlemen – and that is what we should be doing today – against which we must have something, is if tax money is misused for party-political advertising. It is precisely this accusation that we must make to Mr Berlakovich. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We must accuse him of not fulfilling the principles of economy, economy and effectiveness in terms of handling tax money in his advertising and public relations with the Ministry of Life. More: Minister Berlakovich has not only been shown to misuse tax money for making party-political advertising for his own person, but there is also the urgent suspicion that for years in the Black Ministry of Agriculture with tax money illegal party financing towards the Austrian People's Party through the Austrian Farmers' Federation was carried out. It is also about this second area today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can also contact the president of the Farmers' Federation – perhaps you can show him briefly in the camera picture – and also Raiffeisen Manager. He's responsible, among other things. I assume, Mr Auer, that today you will also comment on the accusations against the Farmers' Federation. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Jakob Auer]] Her predecessor as President of the Federal Farmers' Party, Fritz Grillitsch, also had to clear the field because he could no longer explain the accusations to the public during his term of office. I hope you do not suffer the same fate as your predecessor. You've got it in your hand. On the specific facts, facts and figures, as regards this illegal party funding towards the EIA, as regards this party-political advertising on ministerial funds, there is a raw Court of Auditors report, which we discussed in detail with the Minister within the framework of the Committee of Inquiry. Only a few key figures from this: The Ministry of Life, the Ministry of Agriculture, in this case your predecessor Josef Pröll and now Niki Berlakovich, spent a total of €30 million on public relations between 2006 and 2011. 13 million € have been spent on circuits of advertisements in print media. Now it would not be a problem – this is once again the crucial point, this distinction is important to us: If these €13 million actually had been spent on material, important, well-founded, sound information work on EU funding to farmers, then we can discuss it. But what did Mr Berlakovich do with these €13 million? What does the Court of Auditors say about these €13 million? 94 percent – say and write 94 percent! – the ads that were placed around 13 million € are who stood in the center, who was the main theme of this advertising? – This gentleman, ladies and gentlemen! [[towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] If you don't know him yet, even though he's turned his own face into thousands of newspaper inserates around €13 million: This is Minister Nikolaus Berlakovich, responsible for agriculture. Among other things, he is also a minister who likes to lose nerve at airports when he misses a plane, he is also a minister who, according to media reports, runs off in a row because he is supposed to have a choleric approach. - Just so you know: That's Mr. Berlakovich. And this gentleman has spent €13 million on tax money for admiring his own face in the newspaper. [[Abg. List: This is unheard of!]] That's inappropriate, you don't. This is the abuse of tax money that we are fighting hardest, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is another campaign: “Enjoy region Austria”. At 100 percent of this “Genuss region Austria” advertising was again who in the center? – The Minister with photo. The Court of Auditors rightly criticises: no material information, no reason why this circuit is necessary at all. Not even the definition of targets for effect is completely lacking, in concrete terms, also in the “Comuss region of Austria”. That is what the Court of Auditors has criticized. The only effect the ÖVP hopes for is that it might get more of a vote at the next election if it advertises Mr Berlakovich on tax pay costs. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Next example: AMA. Also at the AMA there are instructions from the AMA presidency to pay this gentleman, ladies and gentlemen, instructions, hundreds of thousands of euros for ads where food safety is not the focus of the Austrian products, where not the hard work – I myself come from a farm – is the focus of our farmers who deliver the best products and food for this country. [[towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] They are all not at the centre, but the focus is again exclusively on this gentleman “Flying Niki”, Nikolaus Berlakovich. [[towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich]] Climate fund: the same thing. A photovoltaic promotion was introduced. This is to be welcomed, it was only too little high. All the money was awarded; the climate fund, which was responsible for paying it, was empty. A stand took place in the competent body and many applications had to be rejected. All the money was gone. And yet, Minister Berlakovich does something – although no money is available for this photovoltaic promotion at all –: What's the Minister doing? – He turns ads around € 267 000. Again: The funding money is gone, but the Minister turns ads around €267,000, on which there are mainly those who are to be seen large in life. – Minister Berlakovich. Again it is exclusively about the Minister. And that's how it goes through many areas. This is the ad corruption we condemn, ladies and gentlemen. Correct tax money for information work towards Austrians and Austrians is important, but it is important to use tax money for illegal party advertising of the ÖVP, which is not only indecent, but, Minister, it is also relevant to criminal law, because it puts you on the suspicion of illegal party funding and unfaithfulness. I am convinced that, on the basis of an announcement from the BZÖ, but also from the Greens and the FPÖ, justice will also take appropriate steps against the Minister and must also be taken, ladies and gentlemen. It's not just – and I'm going to the second section – about this hidden party advertising about advertising fees paid by the taxpayer, but it's about a whole network that's obviously been in the ÖVP-led agriculture ministry for years. At the centre of this network is the Austrian Farmers' Federation, where again this gentleman, Jakob Auer, and Fritz Grillitsch, who now had to go back a series. From 2000 to 2011 they said and wrote €2.7 million for public relations by Mr Berlakovich and his predecessor in the direction of this ÖVP preparatory organisation. Mr President, what have you done with these €2.7 million? What did you do with it? I'd really like to know. And again: This is a precursor organisation of the Austrian People's Party. In parallel, from 2000 to 2011, we paid another €3.4 million – and with this we already paid €6 million in total – to the “Forum Land”. “Forum Land”, in turn ÖVP, Farmers’ Federation. “Forum Land” may be a term for some of Deutsche Telekom’s. There are very questionable payments from Mr Hochegger to the ‘Forum Land’, which is why Mr Grillitsch needs a statement to date. That means that the millions – tax millions, tax money, will be taken care of! – created by the Black Ministry of Agriculture in the direction of this ÖVP advance organisation. This is also the reason for this suspicion of illegal party funding, because the Farmers' Federation also publishes newspapers. For example, the "Austrian Farmers' News" is published by the Farmers' Federation. And that's where it was particularly exciting – I read to you from the minutes of the Committee of Inquiry of the meeting on 2 October. October before –: ‘Deputy Stefan Petzner (BZÖ): The ‘Austrian Farmers’ newspaper, let’s start with this one, please tell us the ownership conditions of the ‘Austrian Farmers’ newspaper’.” Mr Berlakovich, who is, of course, not only a minister, but also a farmer's federal member, asked this question. Oh, sure! If you are not a farmer's federal member, you can never become a Minister of Agriculture in the ÖVP, nor much else. What is the answer of the Minister? – “So I do not know the ownership conditions of the “Austrian Farmers’ News”.” The problem that the Minister now has – and we have demonstrated this to him – is that in terms of legal notice and ownership – there is also a publication obligation in this respect, according to the media law – as a co-partner of the “Austrian Farmers’ Newspaper” appears, among other things, Nikolaus Berlakovich. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Not as!]] That is, Mr Berlakovich himself does not know which societies he is in everywhere. Let us take a close look at the network of “Austrian Farmers’ News ” and the other enterprises there! [[The speaker shows a graphic showing the ownership of the above-mentioned print medium.]] There are the “farmer’s newspaper”, “blick into the country” – all ÖVP-near newspapers, Raiffeisen-near newspapers, partly even in the ownership of the companies addressed, and there Mr. Berlakovich switches very hard and comprehensive advertisements. This network looks exactly like this. That's how this network is nested. [[The speaker again shows the above-mentioned graphics.]] So, ladies and gentlemen at home, illegal party funding works at the Austrian People's Party. The funds of any associations, by any undertaking, all of which belong to the Farmer's Federation, are being lurked through countless locks, and the whole coal – tax money – then flows towards ÖVP Farmer's Federation. Thank you at this point to the platform “meinereorderen.at”, which created this graphic. Let us look at the examples in concrete terms! The “Austrian Farmers’ News” – so you know, Minister – belongs to the Austrian Farmers’ Federation. And what has the Minister done with this “Austrian farmer’s newspaper”? – In total, he has paid around €42 600 a year for the delivery of specialist articles for his own homepage to them. That is to say, the minister commissions a company that belongs to him as a farmer's federal officer in part. What does the Court of Auditors say about this assignment of the delivery of specialist articles for the home of the Ministry of Life via the Farmers' Journal? – He mentions the sum of €42 000 a year and then notes that we are back at the classical Meischberger question, Minister: “Where was the performance?” – that the performance is at least very questionable. Quote: ‘These agricultural contributions from the ‘Farming Journal West’ did not help to inform the public of the Ministry’s concrete activity or to change its behaviour, and were therefore not an objectively justified complement to the Ministry’s public relations work. In one word: 42 600 € Tax money per year simply for the fish! The only purpose is to finance the “Farmenjournal West”, which in turn is in the field of influence of the ÖVP and the Farmers’ Federation. Next example: The Agro-Media Verlagsgesellschaft mbH, editor of the "Austrian Farmers' Newspaper" – we are back at these strange corporate structures of the Farmers' Federation and the ÖVP – has also cashed up to €63 000 annually. Agro-Media Verlagsgesellschaft, editor of the “Farmerzeitung”, which in turn belongs to the Farmerbund, receives €63 000 a year for the delivery of some agricultural market reports to the Ministry of Life and its website. The Court of Auditors also notes that the performance, the factual background, is not at all recognizable that no one can explain why Minister Berlakovich pays €63 000 per year to these agro-media publishers GmbH. Of course, then, the suspicion is that he is paying for this because this undertaking belongs to the Farmers' Federation and thus to the ÖVP. The ÖVP can also urgently need the money, it is heavily indebted to what is so read in the newspapers. But the problem, Mr. Klubobmann's head, is: It is your job to reorganise the party finances, it is your job to keep Mr Auer clean the party finances of the Farmers' Federation. At the expense of the Austrian taxpayer, it is not all right not to reorganise the ÖVP's party fund, but to re-fill it for the election campaign. You don't do that, that's inappropriate – and that's exactly what you did! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The Austrian taxpayer has paid enough for the Austrian People's Party, ladies and gentlemen! There are many more examples. In 2008, for example, Mr. Ex-Minister Pröll organized a youth congress around €100 000, by chance a few days before the election, by chance in the Black Lower Austria. Brochures, publications of around €960 000 were produced. The storage of these publications will again cost €300 000. And who does that? – A company in the influence of the Farmers' Federation. You store the brochures for a few years, then you get on it, you don't need them again – once again: the taxpayer has financed them! – then they are destroyed, they are thrown away. And who destroys the brochures, costing about €35,000? – Again, there is a suspicion that this assignment has gone to someone, to an undertaking that is in what sphere of influence? – In that of the Austrian Farmers' Federation and thus of the Austrian People's Party. This network, with these many examples, which I have now brought, ladies and gentlemen, must be combated. Minister, stop barring tax money into your own party bank! Ask yourself the questions we address to you today! In the course of the course of the justice process, which you – I am firmly convinced – will certainly still ask yourself, and finally imagine your actual task as Minister of Agriculture, namely to represent Austrian farmers in this country, in Brussels, to the EU, instead of representing yourself, instead of making self-profile, instead of self-advertising and advertising for the Austrian People's Party! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The farmers work a lot in this country, they get very little for it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The farmers in this country have truly also earned a better minister than “inserator” Nikolaus Berlakovich, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1856	I must say, Mr Petzner – and I will let it go through at the beginning – that there is the agreement not to evade the name here in the House! This also applies to all other speakers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "Inserator" is not a name-absorbing, Madam President.]] – At the beginning he did it, at the beginning of his speech, look for it! In response to the question, Mr. Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e1890	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The House is dealing with a urgent question today as part of its meeting, and I am, of course, at my disposal. [[Abg. Bucher: Of course it wasn't!]] I have spoken and answered the honourable Member in the Committee on Inquiry, and I am also ready to give you information and information today. The urgent request you have made concerns the media and public work of the Ministry of Life. No company, no organisation and no public institution can be successful today without media and public work, and not politics at all. People need to know about the work of the Federal Government that they should be able to get involved in the democratic process. The condition is that people are informed and can form an opinion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A ministry and a minister therefore have a communication debt to the people. The media and public work consists of a mix of different measures. Media and public relations are not only advertisements, such as press releases, press conferences, specialist publications, campaigns, civil service and advertisements. I would like to stress once again: Public relations are much more than advertisements. The public work of the Ministry of Life is essentially pursuing three objectives: first education of consciousness, second information and thirdly, a comprehensive service. First point: Awareness formation. – We need the participation of the population in environmental and climate protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Consciousness needs to be formed. That means that the population needs understanding so that it also changes its behavior. If, for example, it means: How can I save energy, how can I switch from car to public transport or to bike?, it needs information for the population. Second point: Information on the topics of agriculture, forestry, environmental protection and water management. Thirdly, a comprehensive service offer for citizens, such as databases on flood protection, flood risk, waste management, radiation protection, as well as information on citizens' support programmes so that they can also use these support programmes. Of course, there is also specific information for farmers on the European Union's funding programmes, on national funding programmes, as well as information on price and market development, and of course such information must be published in specialised media so that the target group, the farmers, can also be reached. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Due to its competence, the Ministry of Life has a very wide range of topics – agriculture, forestry, environmental protection and water management – and, of course, the future of agriculture plays a major role for me personally. Safety for farmers also means safety for consumers and consumers and means safety for Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The people in Austria live on the products of our agriculture and forestry, the successes in Austrian tourism are based on the work of local agriculture and forestry, and the farmers also provide an intact environment and cultural landscape. Public relations in this area are therefore of particular importance. I understand that the funds spent on public relations are regarded as high, but we already have to see the relationship. The effort of my Ministry of Public Relations is about 0.1 percent of the total ministry budget. Since I was in charge as a minister, I have saved in this area. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The funds of public work have been reduced by up to 40 percent in the period since I was Minister, and we have reduced more in this area than in most other areas of the ministry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The result of these cuts since I was Minister: The Ministry of Life lies with its effort for public relations in the middle of the Austrian Federal Ministries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: That means your predecessor has taxpayers?- Oh, my God!]] Whether it is brochures, contacts, broadcasts, press documents or electronic information media – and I attach special importance to this statement – it has been dealt with in accordance with the law and correctly by the relevant departments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you something. It is honorable to work and serve for this state and for the people in that state. That is why I reject all your attempts at criminalization against my ministry and against me on the hardest. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors has examined and broadly confirms the publication of the Ministry of Life. The criticisms presented by the raw report – I stress that it is a raw report from the Court of Auditors – are currently being examined by my officials, and the opinion will, of course, be transmitted to the Court of Auditors in time. I can now come to the individual questions you asked in the course of the urgent question: Question 1: As Minister, I present the political priorities. Building on these policy priorities, the Ministry of Life has a strategic theme planning. The executives of the departments of the Ministry are preparing an annual plan or an annual work plan, which is in line with my cabinet. This will result in the strategic projects for the annual objectives. A communication concept is in line with this, and the Public Relations Department, in agreement with the experts, formulates the accompanying public work, which is then implemented by the experts in this department. On question 2: Information on markets and prices is important for the income formation of farmers. Through the online market reports, the Ministry of Life provides easy-to-reach, up-to-date and above all reliable access. Our market reports are comprehensive and graphically prepared and are otherwise not available in this form. Question 3: I can answer that, and that is not what you put in the question. This is also confirmed by the Court of Auditors' raw material report. During my term of office, I have greatly reduced the costs of public relations and saved up to 40 percent as you have seen. Large campaigns and topics such as climate:active, year of forest, energy autarchy are accompanied and evaluated with studies. Reportable media response analyses, which the Court of Auditors sometimes filed, are to be given externally and therefore disproportionately cost-intensive and complex. The expenditure of the Ministry of Life is therefore additionally controlled by the internal revision. Question 4: The "Austrian Farmers' Newspaper" has a circulation of 137 000 pieces, making it the richest weekly newspaper in rural areas. With the “farmer’s newspaper, ” about three quarters of the farmers are reached. The fact is that in this case every service is also in return for an advertising area, and it is just as true that it was offered at market rates – to the Ministry of Life as well as to other customers. Question 5: From the beginning, the Federal Ministers – the “Genuss Region Austria” initiative – were the patrons of this initiative. The “Genuss Region Austria” initiative was initially controversial, so it was important that the competent minister confess himself to this initiative, also visually confessed, and behind it to support the farmers and then also the hotel industry, gastronomy, which was found as a partner. The GesundheitRegionen Marketing GmbH has directly commissioned the ads and has also designed them itself. The Ministry of Life has taken no influence on this. Even at AMA, the agricultural market Austria Marketing GmbH, there has been no influence on marketing activities. It is about AMA Marketing GmbH collecting contributions and applying food departments. I've never made use of the law of law at the AMA. On question 6: ==References====External links==* Official website In July 2012, the Federal Government passed directives on the basis of the guidelines adopted by the Federal Government. On the basis of these guidelines, the Ministry appears as a Federal Minister or as a Federal Ministry. In other words, it was even enshrined in the directives that one must act as such. Until the entry into force of the Directives on the design and content of publications of value added tax. There was no legal prohibition for members of the Federal Government to use their photos in the event of fines for communication. You can also read this from the Court of Auditors' raw material report, in which it has been carried out very precisely. Testimonials are a well-known thing, and my presence in the form of a testimonial signals that I am behind these initiatives and thus strengthen the content. ==References== July 2012 applies new legal guidelines for the design and content of fines, and these are, of course, respected by the department and also by me. Question 7: Here too, the new media transparency law brings more clarity. Labelling is explicitly laid down in the Directives on the design of publications of value added tax. These are held by my place of business. Question 8: The AIZ is internationally recognised for its reporting. It has been commissioned annually in works contracts with the Ministry of Life for the research, production and production of agricultural and forestry specialist reports, for the issue of reports on APA, OTS. There are therefore clearly defined, well-known and verifiable benefits and charges for them. The services of the AIZ shall be documented in detail in accordance with contract accounting. In 2008 – you also asked for the figures – the volume of performance was just over €76 000, 2009 at just over €64 000, 2010 at just over €69 000 and 2011 at just over €69 000. In question 9, the lack of reference of advertising messages to the department, which is also criticised by the Court of Auditors. I honestly say that I do not agree at all with what the Court of Auditors has to say about this. Let me give you an example: Farmers' Competition! The government programme has decided on opportunities for women in rural areas as a priority. I quote: When the women go, the country dies. This is also confirmed by the recent report of the Federal Chancellery. That is why this is a central social policy task, which is also dedicated to the Ministry of Life. We have announced a farmer competition because 40 percent of the farms are run by women. The Austrian agriculture and forestry could not exist if we did not have the women there. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It was about stressing the role of women in agriculture, which not only leads the farm, but also takes care of children and often needs to care for old people. I believe that this is a task of the Ministry of Life, especially as the EU funding programmes also address equal opportunities and the special consideration of women in the agricultural field. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Question 10: At this point, they charge waste of tax money on publications. – I reject that! It was a need to be expected, and after that it was also produced. As to what you said about the current contract with a private company that kept, managed and sent the publications of the Ministry of Life, I can say that there was an open call in 2004. At that time, however, there was only one sacrifice that came. It was therefore examined and a five-year contract was concluded on the basis of the appropriate price. And this contract expired in 2009. Since then, the Ministry of Life has done this task itself. On question 11, to the homepage: The 4.39 million mentioned for the Ministry of Life's homepage are not voting! [[Call the BZÖ:Go!]] The costs relate to a five-year framework contract by 2015. [[Aha-run at BZÖ.]] You can read this in the Court of Auditors' judgment. This is a contract that was concluded for this time frame at the time. However, I take the Court's recommendation seriously and have arranged an immediate examination of the benefits and costs. [[Oje-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] If savings potentials are feasible, we will, of course, exploit them. The Ministry of Life shall draw up an opinion on the right of award and shall forward it to the Court of Auditors in due time. Question 12: Since the founding of LFRZ GmbH in 2005, there have been no contracts between the LFRZ association and the Ministry of Life. There are five representatives of the Ministry of Life and a representative of the Ministry of Finance, who also represent the General Assembly of LFRZ GmbH. The service fees between 2001 and 2011 amounted to around €6 million per year. Development work has been carried out, for example for INVEKOS – which is an agricultural topic – or INVEKOS-GIS, INSPIRE, WEB and CMS, transparency database, mineral oil tax refund, forest statistics, tree disaster, wine online as well as for the further development of the Water Framework Directive. To a small extent, work was done for the Waldverband, for the ZAR and for the Austrian Federal Forests. On the question 13: They quote a conglomerate of the Agricultural Accounting Centre. – What you are talking about here is not known to me, so that neither in the past nor in the future contracts could be concluded. [[Call BZÖ: Go!]] Question 14: Private companies are multipliers and also role models, so they are partners of the Ministry of Life in important areas. This is particularly important in relation to environmental and climate protection. In your question 14, you mentioned the SPAR leaflet. I can only tell you that this is not an advertisement on our part, but a request from SPAR for a statement on the initiative “Buy Consciously”. [[Abg. Petzner keeps a leaflet of SPAR up to date.]] Yeah, that's it. Statement “Buy Consciously. ” The “Buying Consciously” initiative is about the fact that there are priority weeks where products in trade are highlighted, which have been produced organically, from “fair trade” that comes from environmentally friendly, energy-saving production produced seasonally and regionally. [[Abg. Petzner: What's that cost?]] 46 trade chains from 9 industries are involved. And SPAR is a partner of the first hour and has pointed out this in his leaflet. We didn't take care of this. We were asked if we would like to appear there in this sense. I hope I answered the questions about your satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2119	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Grosz. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2148	I fully understand that you have to pay, because who will voluntarily publish a counterfee in Austria?- Oh, my God! But what amazes me a little is that you have a 95 percent counterfee obligation in the party newspapers of your “farmerland” and your “forum land”. I understand that free media in this country do not print out their press releases, at most they put the Euro-Shine on the table; I understand all of this. That the “time in the picture” does not bring their jubilation about the state of the Austrian peasantry, because the Austrian media know that it is not, I understand that too, Federal Minister. That Big Newspapers Your messages on the disastrous agricultural situation in which you and your party have driven agriculture in Austria do not bring, but that you have to pay for it, I understand. Only: What I do not understand, Mr. Federal Minister, is that you spent €6.1 million – you, your predecessor Pröll and his predecessor Molterer – in the years 2000 to 2011 for the “Forum Land” and for the “Austrian Farmers’ Federation”. Today, I have brought a parliamentary answer to my question, which has led to a great vortex in January, namely a parliamentary response from you to my question, and that is what I am saying: “The total funding to the Austrian Farmers’ Federation for Information and Public Relations” – that was the project title – “between 1. January 2000 to 31.12.2011 amounts to 2,687,898,74 Euro. Total expenditure to the Country Forum between 1. January 2000 to 31.12.2011 is 3.413,997,40 Euro.’ – Quotes. Mr Berlakovich, I know you have a huge problem with humility. At the latest since your appearance at the airport in Paris, we know that you don't take it so closely with humility. But you should show humility if you are caught by the fact that you are not leading your resort as a ministry, but as a “washing machine” for illegal party funding towards the frontal organizations of your own party. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] I also take a call for order, because the truth can never be covered by a call for order. But it's once said how you abuse the resorts. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Then I have a second parliamentary question here, namely the written question by Mr Grosz. The answer is dated 27. January 2012. I quote: 2006: Austrian Farmers' Federation: 200 000 €. 2007: Austrian Farmers' Federation: 200 000 €. 2008: Austrian Farmers' Federation: 240 000 €. 2009: Austrian Farmers' Federation: 290 000 €. 2010: Austrian Farmers' Federation: 290 000 €. 2011: Austrian Farmers' Federation: 290 000 €. And then still for your ads, which you switch as an “inserator”. To the “Austrian Farmers’ News”: 44 100 €. For the “Future Agriculture”, a media cooperation, Mr. Federal Minister, where you felt at least seven times out of this supplement: €137,000. This is the disgrace we urge – not that a place places the services at the centre of its media applications; not that a ministry is going here and says: Yes, we have made an epochal change of law, now we inform the Austrians about how they can also use this epochal performance!, no, we criticise that for the exclusive posteration of their photo Aber millions Euro per year to party close organizations of the Austrian People's Party and to the Farmers' Federation are being swept away so that you Their vulnerable organisations can at least survive financially. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] And to the quality of your ads and the truth content of your ads: The Rural Wisdom “When it snows in December, winter is not far” is more intelligent than the sayings you are trying to bring us closer to your ad in the media. I quote: “Eating is, after all, a major activity in our lives.” Well, we like to eat! – For this, you use tax money, Minister! I quote: “At the present average life expectancy, we take some 85 000 meals in our lives.” Na bum, 85 000 times we eat! You know what the difference is: The Austrians pay themselves You eat yourself, Mr Federal Minister, and finance your political life and not tax money, as we are criticizing today. This is the only truth that these ads mean! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then I have an listing here, that says: [[Keeping a leaflet of SPAR in height]] “DI Niki Berlakovich, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment.” – “SPAR, Nature*pur” This is where SPAR apply and you apply from 1st to 30th. September in a cooperation of quality products. It would be a pleasure to every farmer and farmer on the Graz farmer market if she/she were to cooperate with the Ministry of Agriculture for bringing their agricultural products to the people instead of your support for the companies that are pressuring prices in agriculture. That's not what you're doing, Mr. Federal Minister, and the other things. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] But it's about something completely different: This meeting is indeed the expression of parliamentary resistance, the expression of democratic resistance, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, because you have shown with your turning off of the committee of inquiry, where we could have precisely clarified these painterries, that you have not learned from the scandals of AKH, Noricum and Lucona, BAWAG, “Consum” pleas, “Bundesländer Versicherung” and BUWOG. They have not learned from this scandalous history of the Republic, but try again to suppress the Enlightenment, so that the swamp of corruption moves towards our country very slowly. According to the motto: Better an end with horror than a terror without end! you turned off the investigation committee and speculated with the stupidity and oblivion of people. It is embarrassing how stupid you think the Austrians believe that you do not think that the people do not remember this democracy-political dagger blast until the next National Council election in October 2013! They say: Better such a little excitement now in October 2012 than then the great disaster over their own scandals in autumn 2013! People are not as stupid as you might believe! The people are not the animals for which you think it is! According to the motto: Simply scramble and speculate with the oblivion! People are aware of what you have mentioned here with this committee of inquiry. When it came to discovering the painterries of all the parliamentary parties, not the government parties, the Committee could not work fast enough. Now that it is about questioning the two 'inserators', Mr Faymann and Mr Berlakovich, once on the government council and on the cross-financing of the ÖVP and SPÖ organizations, this committee is being turned off! Therefore, it is important that we call these special meetings as you can so loudly in between, the truth cannot suppress you either, ladies and gentlemen from the last bank of the Austrian People's Party! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] People will not forget that – and therefore these committees of inquiry are a command of the hour. Now to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Today, we will make a request for the establishment of an investigation committee to be a minority right. – Mr Klubobmann Cap, you don’t have to look away. I think it was at the fateful party meeting, where your chairman has gone through, a party day decision that the SPÖ is in favour of minority rights so that the establishment of an investigation committee becomes a minority right. Well then we'll apply for this today! I assume that you agree with this today, don't I? Then: You can't talk somewhere else in Lower Austria than you are inside here, and not even in front of your own party! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Today we will make a request where word for word for SPÖ's key request to the party's day has been written off. We have also taken over your spelling errors, so that there is no suspicion that this is perhaps another request. We have even taken over the spelling errors of the “young falcons. ” We present this proposal today, and then we see whether you agree to this request today – as a contribution to political hygiene, because you, together with the Austrian People's Party, are constantly polluting the political hygiene in Austria, dear comrades from the SPÖ. We will continue to clarify, and we will continue to request special meetings here in this House – until you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, and you, Mr Nikolaus Berlakovich, will finally learn the humility that people in this country expect from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2261	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2282	Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to return to a critical, but fair and objective debate, and therefore a few preliminary remarks. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How about minority law!]] I believe that we must always bear in mind that, as in employment policy, social policy and health policy, we are also pioneers at European and international level in agriculture policy. And we can be proud of our farmers together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This successful way, ladies and gentlemen, is also a useful information policy. I believe it is already a special feature for us in the House that all parties are actually committed to organic and sustainable agriculture and to healthy food and that this is also broadly anchored in information policy. I am already convinced that it is important to raise awareness of the population in Austria, to feed themselves healthy, and that we have sustainable and ecological agriculture and that it is also worth paying more if product quality is correct, and that we can be internationally successful. There is another important part in the information policy – and it is true that this is necessary specifically for the target group – namely to raise awareness of our farmers, not in mass production, but in terms of quality, and to ensure that they join this Austrian path of organic and sustainable agriculture. We have managed to ensure that EU funds up to € 1 billion can be used by our farmers. That means that, as I believe, information policy in the broad range and for certain target groups is absolutely necessary. That is why we have to look at things very critically in this discussion, namely whether the use of the funds in the field of public relations of the Federal Ministry corresponds to the principles of economy, economic efficiency and effectiveness, and if one looks at that on the basis of the Court of Auditors' raw report, then one can see that there is a need for discussion where the Minister will hopefully also be able to make a clear statement in his opinions. I think you have to be careful: If something is not economical, economic and useful or is criticized by the Court of Auditors, then there can be no automatic means of saying simply: All this is criminal! – Only to criminalize would be the absolutely wrong way! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have also discussed in the Court of Auditors' Committee that €30 million has been spent on public relations and that €13 million has been used for circuits in print media. But it is fair to say – and perhaps the Minister of Agriculture is very sympathetic to me because I often meet him; I see him especially in all the magazines, because my father-in-law is a veterinarian, and he really laughs out everywhere – it is also an addition to being sensitized. It cannot be said that in these journals only the image of the Minister is, but information that is also important for the promotion policy is also passed on. [[Abg. Bucher: But the taxpayer has to pay all this!]] But at 94 percent picture presence you can, of course, critically discuss it, because, I think, this is quite justified. If it is target group-specific and if it serves to take away the public, the ads are useful, but if the specific reference is missing, if the strategy behind what the ads serve is not transparent, then one must ask for these things to be more concrete and, above all, to comply with the media transparency law in all points by point and by outline. With the Media Transparency Act, we have precisely these uncertainties: Is it now advertising to the Minister or is it simply information policy?, prepared to a large extent and solved this problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Linder.]] Especially in media such as “blick into the country” or in the “farmer’s newspaper” you have to – and that’s true – be very, very sensitive, especially since frontal organisations stand behind it. It is technically true that this is the medium most reached by the farmers, but I also appeal to the execution to draw a very consistent line between information policy and the area of sponsorship and promotion, because that is of course something you cannot need in the sense of transparency. This is a continuous learning process within the framework of the Media Transparency Act, and this also applies to all departments. I'm sure it's clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] As far as the point homepage is concerned, I have to say: I hope we will clarify this, because the right to award is absolutely crucial to us. For me, it is difficult to understand why an in-house award is made when the financial attorney recommends writing out, the Constitutional Service recommends writing out, and the Court of Auditors also sees it as a tender to be made. This will certainly have to be discussed in detail within the Committee on Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. There are some other points, such as the cost of photographers. I assume that this will be more cost-effective in the future. I also recommend to you, on the basis of what we know from the Court of Auditors, a clear communication strategy in all areas which are also transparent and comprehensible. In particular, in the area of information for crises, there is still a lack of the concept of how the Court of Auditors is criticised. One such thing created. Please also have in mind the criteria of economy, sparingness, expediency also in your public relations! And if you perhaps work a little stronger with your own people, rather than forgive others, then, I think, we will be able to continue this successful path in agricultural policy. In this sense, I am convinced that we will continue to be able to take consumers along with them to consume organic and sustainable, and to produce farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2362	Mr Klubobmann's head is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2385	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Financiary Minister! Minister for Agriculture! Minister of Science! High house! My three conclusions from these discussions are as follows: The reasons for this special meeting and the desire for this special meeting are extremely questionable to me. Secondly, The famous investigative committee has undoubtedly led to important and correct consequences, especially legal ones, but if we do not change its rules of play, it threatens the rule of law. And thirdly, I'll explain it to you immediately afterwards: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] The activity of BZÖ and Greens is increasingly and increasingly exhausted in personal malignancies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss whether the Telekom East business, which was dealt with very briefly at the end of the committee, or whether the ÖBB, ASFINAG, BMVIT listings have been sufficiently treated. For my part, if you feel that you are making a special meeting to get more information or to have discussions about it. But only to recall the opposition – especially BZÖ and FPÖ –: In July of this year, before the summer break, a request was made between the four parties SPÖ, ÖVP, BZÖ, FPÖ, with a timetable for the meeting until the end of the Committee of Inquiry, which had just five meeting dates. [[Abg. Petzner: That's wrong, that's not true!]] Then, at the end of the day, even eight session appointments were agreed – and yet you are now performing such a spectacle, even though you were willing to agree at the time! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's not true at all!]] Quote today It is the Federal Minister Berlakovich – the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Berlakovich! ==References====External links== For more than two hours, the Examining Committee gave a speech and an answer to the question of the Minister's question: [[Abg. Petzner: He didn't know anything!]] Are there any further questions? – There have been no more questions – and yet you quote him here today, although you had no more questions to him at that time! That's really transparent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Again, ladies and gentlemen: I say that today's session does not serve to clarify, it serves the political spectacle and the personal evasion. The speeches by Mr Petzner and Mr Grosz underlined this once again. Mr Petzner, if you're sitting in the glasshouse like this, even being accused of illegal party funding, then don't throw such large stones at others – out of the glass house! [[Ah Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should rule out the need for public relations, including paid publicity, by ministries and ministers. Today, it is no longer possible to provide the necessary information exclusively with press conferences and similar information to the people. That should be undisputed, and in that we should agree. But it is equally legitimate and necessary – of course! – to discuss criticism of the Court of Auditors, to take this criticism of the Court of Auditors seriously and of course to speak about it. But a confidential, non-public raw report from the Court of Auditors is not the appropriate instrument for public criticism of a minister before it had the opportunity to present its position to the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pilz has never been interested in the rule of law – and not in Mr Petzner, either. On the contrary: Pilz makes it a political stylist: Criminalisation by slander. That is the means of working, the stylistic agent in particular of Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just a small example, ladies and gentlemen: Pilz forbids passages of a Court of Auditors' raw report, a confidential report, on its homepage and even goes so far as to call it “criminal case of Berlakovich”. This is a scandal, Mr Pilz, what you are doing here, a scandal of the rule of law! [[Congratulations and Buh-Rufe at the ÖVP as well as congratulation with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Pilz, you can also show a minister at the prosecutor's office. Of course! You have already shown so many people, and it has become nothing from most ads. The same applies: the stylistic means of criminalization by slandering. You've made it your tool. Most of your shakes don't come out at the end of the day, but there remains one thing: Of course, the dirt with which you threw the person remains partially attached to that person. That seems to be the intention. You should be ashamed! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments to the Committee of Inquiry so that I can explain what I said at the outset. The great success of this Committee of Inquiry is that, in parallel with this Committee, the strictest laws that do not need to be compared in Europe were passed. [[Abg. Petzner: What do you have to say about the accusations?]] The media transparency law, which does not please everyone, is certainly one of them. But one thing this committee has not done, ladies and gentlemen: Just as it is in Germany – there it is a minority right, and this committee in Germany is studying very factually and inconspicuously what it is about – to clarify the political responsibility of decision-makers and not to play substitute state attorney. He has not accomplished this task with us until today in the inconsistency and materiality that we demand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, quite the opposite: There have been serious concerns about this committee of inquiry, which is the rule of law. A prosecution of the prosecutor's office is not secret without reason. It should be avoided that persons who are identified against – but an investigation is not yet a debtor’s knowledge – have a reputational damage and credit damage, and that is why these procedures are secret. But what have some done on the verge of this committee of inquiry? – They have organised a competition in the publication of public prosecutors’ investigations, either through misuse of the possibilities or on the margins or even outside the committee towards the media. This is not all right, and here we need new rules, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also not a piece of fame for this committee that the so-called presumption of innocence, which we should hold high in our rule of law, has been made so ridiculous, yes, has been put into filth on every occasion. That should not make us happy, on the contrary: The presumption of innocence protects every innocent citizen from a public evasion, and we should not be a minor one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And one last thing: I agree to make the Committee of Inquiry a minority right. But before we do this, some in this House must learn that the same right for politicians must apply not only to their persecution but also to their protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2562	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2583	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we have had to experience a lot of reporting in recent weeks. On the one hand, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who was too bold to come to the committee of inquiry in order to declare it under the duty of truth, on the other hand, has to be kept in mind that Minister Berlakovich at least had the courage to comply with this duty. It's worth something. He has committed himself to the Investigation Committee and to the duty of truth. We must also work out this from the quality: the Federal Chancellor as an accuser on the one hand and the Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich on the other. But you, Mr Berlakovich, are not quite wrong to be quoted as “black Faymann” when it comes to dealing with tax money from your ministry very generously. We hear of public relations of € 30 million over a certain period of time, of advertisements worth € 13 million, with which party-related newspapers were considered. This has exactly that quality as the accusation to the Federal Chancellor in the field of the ÖBB and the ASFINAG, the legitimate accusation which stands here in the room and which is to be clarified, because it is obviously not properly dealt with by means of taxation. This is a certain – at least moral – decay and a symbol of moral decay, how to deal with tax money in the ministries and how to give the impression: There is money – although it belongs to the taxpayer, we really consider it our party property, and we have it when it comes to making our minds visible, putting our personal application in the foreground. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You've got to hold on to it, too. Work for the rural, the agricultural structure is your responsibility, not self-indulgence, and above all not the financing of party media and newspapers with advertisements, as has been the case. If it has been said here that work is so successful, it should also be pointed out that over the last ten years 30 000 farmers have unfortunately been destroyed due to certain developments in the country, which is not particularly true of the performance of EIA agriculture ministers. If today Mr Grosz rightly reminded us that the Committee of Inquiry had been promised as a minority right: Yes, this promise has been made in writing since 2009. At that time, opposition parties – off- Since the FPÖ – approved by the government parties to sacrifice banking secrecy with constitutional majority – for this promise that Klubobmann Cap and also the ÖVP had given to the investigation committee at that time, namely to ensure minority rights. What this promise is worth, we can all judge today, nothing to date, and I fear that nothing will change either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It should be noted that illegal party funding is in the room here, Minister Berlakovich, at an ÖVP “farmer’s newspaper” network, where our colleague Harald Jannachsich has made the effort to work out and compile it, where you then answer in the investigation committee, you have no idea what the ownership relationship looks like. You do not know that the Austrian Farmers' Federation with 7 percent by Mr. Colleagues Auer is represented at the “Austrian Farmers’ News” that “Farmerzeitung GmbH” is ultimately also provided with an address of the Tyrolean Farmers’ Federation that the “AGRO Werbung GmbH” is of course also equipped with the same address of the Upper Austrian Farmers’ Federation. Here it becomes quite clear which ÖVP braids there are, but you don't want to know anything about it, of which you don't know anything about it, according to your own information. That is more than critical to question. Mr Klubobmann's head referred at least to it. The investigative committee has been turned off – it has not been able to carry out its tasks, it has not been able to fulfil the tasks given to it, and that is different from what you have tried to present it today. The opposition parties agreed to another five meetings in July, but this did not include the end of the committee. You said that completely wrong and against better knowledge today. On the contrary! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary: There was this agreement to ensure five further meetings in order to also clarify the open materials – Telekom, area ASFINAG, ÖBB –, areas where there could not be any information work because you have turned off this investigation committee from the government. Of course, the opposition is to show an abuse practice, which unfortunately is generally present in the ministries of God, but also to stop for the future. I understand that it is unpleasant to you if those areas for which you are responsible as ministers are involved within the framework of the Enlightenment Committee, but the way in which you have turned the committee was particularly blatant. From this responsibility we cannot release you from God, quite the contrary, and the people too will not forgive you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was, of course, necessary to bring in criminal proceedings even if there is a suspicion of infidelity and abuse of the power of office. And, of course, it must be stated here that the unfaithful paragraph, § 153 of the Criminal Code, is to be applied to persons who, through abuse of the power of representation, harm the master of business. And the protected property is the property, in which case, of course, the wealth on the one hand of the Ministry of Agriculture, on the other hand, the assets of taxpayers. And if such a suspicion is in the room, then he has nothing to do with it. That is what the opposition is trying to move forward here without pre-disposing someone as guilty. But it must be clarified! And the suspicion is in the room, it stands in the room permanently. If Mr Berlakovich makes himself there today and thinks that the homepage is so decent anyway, Because it is divided into five years, i.e. a homepage with a total cost of €4.39 million for five years, you have to relativize it, because that is still €1.3 million for the immediate establishment of the homepage at tax costs plus 3.4 million for five years of care. This means per month 63 333 €! Yes, damn it again, the Grasser's home page was in the truest sense of the word a "learcherlsha" compared to the homepage of Mr. Berlakovich! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then you have to ask yourself the question: Who's enriching here? And: How can such absurd and non-comprehensible costs come about? When you produce various print media with advertising circuits of € 13.01 million, with photos of the Minister, and of course the “Austrian Farmers’ Newspaper” with the braid I mentioned earlier: These are all things that the Court of Auditors rightly points out, for which it is not comprehensible, that in 2010 € 420 000 will be spent on topics such as "Our Farmers Bring" or "Bagricultural of the Year" or "We are Bioworld Masters". These are not things that can simply be put aside as fluffy as Mr Berlakovich has tried to answer the question today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are areas that are going to be unexplained and beyond which one cannot go smoothly. In view of the amounts presented, it can only be found that these are really completely absurd and non-sustainable. There it smells huge, with these sums, concretely attached to the homepage. We all remember that – rightly! – Minister Grasser in setting up a 200 000 € homepage has been criticized for weeks and even longer, but this is no comparison to this homepage! I know that, for example, the entire computer system did not cost more than € 740 000. What is this compared to the homepage set up by Mr Berlakovich? If funds have not been misused or contracts have been concluded that are not sustainable, I wonder: Where if not here? I say that such moral pictures are to be stopped, such – at least to be suspected – machinations have to be clarified. Of course, there is a need to live with propriety and stand up to what Mr Berlakovich has done, and at least to speak and answer. You have to pull out once again to the end: The Federal Chancellor did not find this worth the effort, and that does not at all speak for the Federal Chancellor. The citizens take this particular thing to themselves, that he has shown this cowardice, namely to withdraw his statement from the committee of inquiry, to have to speak under the duty of truth there – for it seems that he is really afraid to have to express himself under the duty of truth because he has something to hide. Finally, I say: Mr Minister, please take the criticism and also the accusations of the opposition seriously, and get used to considering your area and the handling of your area in advertising in the ministry as if all of this were the property of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The tax funds are neither the property of the ÖVP nor the social democracy in this country, and that is exactly the custom picture that belongs to our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2716	Mr Pilz, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pilz on his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2740	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that Minister Berlakovich has come to the committee of inquiry. I believe that there is no reason for us as Members of this House to be grateful for this. It is his duty as a member of the Federal Government – and he has fulfilled this duty. Mr Berlakovich, it will not have been overly pleasant for you, and it certainly has not been useful to you either, but it would be useful to think within the SPÖ about who has done more harm to his own behaviour – the Minister of Agriculture, who has come and has not been able to explain much, or the Federal Chancellor who has hidden himself from the Parliament and the Committee of Inquiry. The SPÖ Party Day has given a clear answer to this behaviour, and two SPÖ, from Vorarlberg and from Carinthia, have already declared publicly: Yes, that was a memorial for the escape from the investigation committee! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] I don't wonder why 17 percent Werner Faymann didn't vote, but I'm really wondering: What about these 83 percent who have still chosen a politically volatile German chancellor in St. Pölten and allow him this kind of further work and disdain of Parliament? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So, and now to you, Minister of Agriculture: I would like to give an example of what we are actually talking about, and I regret that the Clubobmann of the People's Party has completely failed to take a position on the matter and to explain once how he justifys the immensely dense and expensive filtrations between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Federal Farmers' Federation of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Head: It's coming!]] There are AGRO Werbung GmbH. This AGRO Werbung GmbH received 54 625,62 € from the Ministry of Agriculture in the period 2006 to 2010. AGRO Werbung GmbH is an advertising agency, as a advertising agency has been promoted. The shareholders are Hannes Herndl, former Landobmann of the Upper Austrian Farmers' Federation and President of the Chamber of Agriculture, and Jakob Auer, President of the Austrian Farmers' Federation and Member of the National Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: That's not true!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Everything is wrong!]] This Auer-Berlakovich axis, whether with or without an investigation committee, we will have to look even more closely because there is also a second support, namely the Agro-Media Verlagsgesellschaft mbH: Market Reports for Homepage, 2006 to 2011, 349 254 €. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Shareholders: 14 per cent indirectly Tyrolean Farmers' Federation, 7 per cent Austrian Farmers' Federation, 13 per cent Styrian Farmers' Federation, 42 per cent Austrian Agricultural Publisher – goes back to this construction – and 23 per cent again Herndl and Auer. What happened? What does the Ministry of Agriculture have, what did Pröll and Berlakovich pay for? It's very easy. This is an online appearance to market reports for the homepage of the Ministry of Agriculture. These market reports are available online for free on the homepage of the Chamber of Agriculture, they are available free of charge on the homepage of the "Farmerszeitung" of the Farmers' Federation. Why does the Ministry of Agriculture pay €349 254 to a Farmers' Federation to buy something you get for free everywhere? You must explain that, Minister Berlakovich! Not only do you send money to the Farmers' Federation over at least ten different channels – and we are already much more than what we have described in the Investigation Committee – but it is also about that you have given money to your own party organisation for something where there is certainly no performance and where not even the Meischberger question “Where was the performance?” is, because there was nothing to pay because it was free anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And this is exactly what a parliamentary committee of inquiry is investigating, for which we are here, which is exactly why we have been unanimously used and commissioned by this House – and that is exactly what we should be prevented. Now, of course, you are in the happy situation, that with Werner Faymann and Josef Ostermayer you have two red counterparts and a balance of the ad scarcity between SPÖ and ÖVP. Of course you could get up now and say: Please, we have not only financed the Farmers' Federation, we have also given money to the advertising agency Orange! – That’s right, Minister Berlakovich, but that was relatively little compared, that was just a few thousand euros, and the distribution alone between the money for orange and the money for the farmer’s covenant shows what is really important to you and what really is worth to you. This is the one area, and Mr. Klubobmann's head, is not at the prosecutor's office because we're Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich wants to adapt – he does that himself, and he does it already with the help of the Farmers' Federation – but because it is necessary. I would have liked to have decided at the end of our joint work whether the prosecutor's office should be set up, but if a committee of inquiry, our joint investigations, including the Austrian People's Party, were to be stopped, then there is only one institution that can determine, with files, with evidence and with evidence, and that is the criminal justice. The following, Mr. Klubobmann's head, should you not forget: Almost everything that is currently pending corruption before Austrian courts is based on advertisements by Members Moser, the Landtagsreiter Holub and also by me. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] These ads made sense: A criminal justice that for many years did not want to find out against active government members and government parties that there are so many facts, so many evidences, so many clues and so many witnesses that justice simply cannot look away. And fortunately she doesn't look away anymore. This is also a success in parliamentary control. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the years 2006 to 2011, only at least €2.2 million from the Ministry of Agriculture went to the Farmers' Federation according to our documents. In your answer you have admitted the slightly more than 2 million for the period from 2000 to 2011. Mr Minister, there is a suspicion that this question has also been answered incorrectly and that it concerns completely different and far higher numbers. [[Call:But this is interesting]] What do we do now? – You, SPÖ and ÖVP, no longer want us to examine further in this House, but the people in Austria expect Parliament to make its contribution to the fight against corruption and not to be hindered by two government parties, and therefore there is a great task in this House for the next few months: the re-establishment of the Committee of Inquiry. Not only we in the house, but Austria needs functional parliamentary investigations. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] You have praised it yourself, Mr Kopf, for you have praised it yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, how successful we have been. Yes, then answer a single question: Why should we not continue to be successful, as Parliament, as an investigation committee? Why is the excessive success of the parliamentary investigation suddenly a reason for not being examined? - That's nonsense. That's not responsible. That is why we are now dealing with one thing: to continue to examine, to clarify with all parliamentary means, the sharpest and most effective instrument in this House, to let the Examining Committee work again! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] Each one of us knows that at the end of the day only if the Committee of Inquiry is no longer dependent on the majority of governments. Of course, we need the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. You, Mr Kopf, have signed this promise. You, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, signed it. I know exactly who broke his word. The word has finally broken the SPÖ on this question. The SPÖ has not kept her word. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] At the end of the negotiations, four parties, and this must be said to be fairness, including the Austrian People's Party, were ready to make the committee of inquiry a minority law. It failed at the SPÖ. And now, at your party meeting, you decide: We call on the Committee of Inquiry to act as a minority right?- Oh, my God! You, Mr Klubobmann Cap, only have to give up your blockade, then he can be minority law in one or two weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap]] That's why it's going to be okay. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] And we need special meetings to do this, and we need further clarification so that this Parliament can continue to clarify and combat corruption in all its peace. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2943	Mr Huber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e2965	Mr Berlakovich, how do you feel today in view of the fact that your political work is really appreciated? But how do you feel if you have not achieved any political successes if today the farmer and the farmer outside says: This minister doesn't represent me! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Representation!]] This minister assures me that I have to look at ads with my forced membership contributions, for example at the AMA, but he does not represent me! This minister represents the industry alone! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Representative!]] Mr Minister, I tell you what it is about: It is only on its own, and the Court of Auditors has also criticised it for such advertising. [[The speaker holds up a newspaper show.]] This ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website Over half of the advertisement is taken by Mr Niki Berlakovich. But if you're really honest now, What does the Minister of Agriculture tell his farmers? “Our farmers bring it. Benefits that are priceless!" [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: not understood!]] I'll read to you literally: We're Bio World Champions. The basis for our tourism. Energy from nature. Our farmers are young and motivated. – The Federal Minister does not even know how the age structure of our agriculture is, but does nothing. – The management of remote regions. - Quote. All that the Federal Minister steps with his hands and feet, he recruits, half-sided, more than half is his photo. Mr Federal Minister, if you believe that the agricultural policy is, please! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[The speaker gives Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich an ad.]] But how is it today a Minister of Agriculture who is not concerned that our consumers have healthy products on the plate, that our agricultural population, our farmers lose their livelihoods and that they can produce really healthy products? – No, this Minister is committed solely to industry, to companies such as Raiffeisen, such as AGRANA. It is only taken care that poisons such as glyphosate and so on come to our plates. But, Mr Federal Minister, why have you never managed to score your actions with farmers? There is no one, I do not know any farmer who says that our Minister for Agriculture has noticed us with positive actions. Last Saturday was in Lienz District Land Youth Day. Mr. Federal Minister, it is sad that this Federal Minister, sitting on a ticket from the Federal Farmers' Federation, says in the Committee of Inquiry that he does not know who the “Farmers News” belongs to. He even denies his origin, he also denies this peasantry – apart from the fact that at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of the rural income, you have switched your advertising and, as it seems, continue to turn off. An example: Last week in the EZA Committee She said that the Ministry of Agriculture has contributed €1.4 million to development aid. Then I asked you: Yeah, why not? Mr Federal Minister, how do you feel when, in view of this, you say: I don't have any money! The ministry has too little money, but does 13 million € spend on own photo advertising?- Oh, my God! Mr. Federal Minister, this is not understood by the population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If we look at your specific work, Minister of State: They did not manage to obtain a single farm. On the contrary: You have managed with your E10 discussion – which is really cockbled – to assure the farmers very much. It's an insanity. We know since the Green Report, Austria produces only 88 percent of the cereals. That means the rest must be imported. And only out of obedience to Raiffeisen, to AGRANA, this minister insists – well aware that he is going to slip on it – on it. It's not about people's interest. It is not about the interest of agriculture. It's about the interests of Raiffeisen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Mr Federal Minister, you should work to ensure that these compensatory payments, the so-called subsidies that Austrian agriculture receives – as we know – are over €1 billion. Over 70 percent of these fundings – which must be broken down on the tongue – receive 16 percent of farmers. This is exactly the clientele that this Minister represents. If we look at the AMA, the whole AMA marketing, that's a bar. Mr. Federal Minister, start cleaning up! You say you have no influence and you have nothing to do with it, but in your ministry you even have employees who are there for it. This whole AMA business fails. This AMA seal only confuses people, nobody knows it. You let it happen, you've brought it together, that we're importing a million pigs in Austria today and getting to the plates every day. They brought together the fact that we have to import cattle. Mr. Federal Minister, you can be really proud of this! To something else: There is this agricultural accounting company, where the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dipl.-Ing. August Astl is – everyone knows, has been the CEO of the AMA for many years, and in your answer you said you don't know that, you have no idea. Mr Federal Minister, I say to you: If you can't do anything but really send the governor home for the moment to the farmers who have worked for their lives, because some alpine areas don't vote, then I have to tell you that's sad. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] If you had taken a few thousand euros into your hands to help these establishments threatened by their existence instead of selling your face, you would have made a positive policy once. And I'll tell you one thing: If today we compare Austria's agriculture with comparable countries, with Italy, with Germany, then we have to find one thing: In Italy, the litre of diesel, today's deadline, costs farmers 79 cents. The Austrian pays 1,50 €. For the products, the Austrian farmer gets half like in Italy, and, Mr. Federal Minister, what are you doing? They only work consistently and with sturgeon skull on for raiffeisen. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: What are you propagating? That's right!]] Mr Federal Minister, take the example of the Tyrolean agricultural communities! There, 20,000 Tyrolean farmers are expropriated, just as the Indians were in America, with the same system. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What does the Federal Minister do? – He doesn’t imagine anyone, Mr. Federal Minister doesn’t care. On the example of Ötztal with Mayor Schöpf you can see where this leads, there it went through, as the communities manage such agricultural communities: In a few years 2 million € debt! Every year 200 000 € loss makes the community! It can't even be reforested again! - You're going these ways. Mr. Federal Minister, stop self-advertising! Finally, start making politics for your clients, and explain again why “Forum Land” has received so many millions from you, including Deutsche Telekom! What really happened? Tell me the truth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3110	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3131	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the urgent question or the parliamentary debate here in the House is a second instigation of the Committee of Inquiry. It is about the advertising of the Ministry of Agriculture. There have already been public debates in all the media, and today we are already debating a report on the Court of Auditors, which is not yet available to all of us. A word about my colleague Pilz. Mr Pilz, the Committee of Inquiry, but it is also a question of the design of the Committee of Inquiry, how does the model look at the meaning of what composition it has. We will certainly still be discussing this. I think it is important to talk about political responsibilities, but it is also important for all of us to talk about the future development of the country, about and concern for people in our country. This is an essential part of our joint work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Expenditure on public media links, for the advertising industry, amounted to around €1.65 billion in 2010, and, of course, also includes the public advertising of ministries. The Court of Auditors, after examining advertising expenditure, especially in the Black-Blue period from 2000 to 2007, has drawn up very clear criteria for the conditions under which government advertising should be carried out. The information services are crucial – in the background, of course, the individual Minister's personal advertising has to stand. I am convinced that many of you know that switching information for resorts is necessary in order to meet the information requirement. People need to be informed, and media cooperation is logical. On the one hand, it is about how I reach many people: with large media, with newspapers with a large number of editions. On the other hand, how I reach a specific target group, limited information providers: through specialist or target group newspapers. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: I insist that there should be information, of course, also from the point of view of costs. But exclusive personal advertising with public funds is of course to be rejected. It is clear to note that, of course, we can criticize that, of course, we can say a yes to the analysis that we also have to deal with the subject matter. What we as Social Democrats are saying, however, is that criminalisation is such measures. The comparison of media cooperation with personal enrichments or with corruption, we strongly reject this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Consequences were drawn. The Federal Government has presented a transparency package including a media transparency law that goes far beyond the Court's recommendations. Each State body subject to the control of the Court of Auditors shall report quarterly in which it is advertised, how much the fee is paid for it and what public funding is distributed. Already, for the first time, 5 600 lawyers have to report on their expenses, on their funding. Similarly, the Media Transparency Act clearly states that it must be recognizable to whom a periodic medium belongs that silent participations et cetera, for example, must be disclosed in the context of the obligation of disclosure. This is now clearly regulated. Ladies and gentlemen! We stand at the work of the Ministry of Agriculture because we are convinced that the work of the Minister is important for the rural population, for rural areas, for the people in the country. Citizens have a right to be informed about the work of the Federal Government. The Media Transparency Act has succeeded in bringing the Court of Auditors' requirements into a clear legal framework. You, Mr Minister, will ask yourself the question of how you will be in the future Your advertising campaigns will create and what consequences you will have for future public relations.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3202	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3225	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Right ahead: The Austrian Farmers' Federation has nothing to hide. We have given our lawyer the order to hand over all relevant documents to the Public Prosecutor's Office. To make it clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr Huber was here tossed by Mr Berlakovich and said that he had no success. – I can only remind you, Mr Huber, that Austrian agriculture is a world organic champion. Show me a second country that can have such a successful balance! We are recognised, more than recognized and appreciated with our public environment programme in Europe. We have the youngest managers in Europe, and in the rural area in Austria, there are much less operational tasks than is the case throughout the rest of Europe. Take a look at this, then you can continue pouring! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it's a difference whether it's about education or a political show or self-representation at this special meeting today. Mr Petzner, you currently have enough work to do, and I understand that when you go here today and try to make a very tight special meeting, because in a few days, if you continue to move out of your club, you will no longer be able to apply for a special session here. They all wander to Stronach, Mr Petzner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Because the sun of knowledge is so low with the colleague Petzner, he is already pushing the newspaper “Blick into the Land” near the Farmerbund. – “Congratulations” to this! This game is easy to see. This special meeting obviously does not serve to explain new things, but is the crampy attempt to further adapt our successful Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Petzner: He was really good!]] You throw dirt around yourself, but I understand that if you're in the mud as deep as you are, ladies and gentlemen from the BZÖ! I can remind you: Hubert Gorbach from BZÖ adapted the Universal Service Regulation in favour of Telekom Austria. After leaving the government, Telekom Austria paid its secretary: approximately €264,000. €720 000 came from Telekom for the 2006 BZÖ election campaign. Wittauer was called to mind. Karin Gastinger should also have been promoted. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The €500 000 expensive brochure “We Build the New Carinthia. Guaranteed’ was financed by means of tax. €300 000 went from the Austrian Lotteries to the BZÖ. And so on. Ladies and gentlemen from BZÖ! Try to get yourself clean before you throw others! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The claim that only the peasantry would have received money is also particularly remarkable. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who else? Who else?]] I remember: From 2000 to 2011 the SPÖ farmers received 685 177 €, the green farmers 130 047 €, the liberal farmers 447 227 € and the BZÖ farmers, only since 2005 active, 134 250 €. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Ah, look here!]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] One of these groups was unable to complete the bill. There, ladies and gentlemen, you have enough work to do. Try to get in the clean with yourself! That would be much better! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then Mr Berlakovich is accused of having always been his counterpart in his ads. [[The speaker shows various ads.]] Here is a circuit of the colleague Haimbuchner, FPÖ Upper Austria, paid advertising. [[Abg. Neubauer: Over 1 million readers!]] Here Haimbuchner, FPÖ: also a big counterfee. Here too, Haimbuchner, FPÖ, with counterfei. Here too, Haimbuchner, FPÖ. His picture all over the place. Should it be, why not? I'm just paying attention to that. [[Abg. Strache: These are party councils and not ministerial councils!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr Kogler, before you come up with me quite: Here is my colleague Mr Anschober, also with his counterfee. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Here too, the colleague is Mr Anschober. Do you know which paper he put in here? In the “farmer’s News ”! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Congratulations, we thank you for this advertisement of course! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And here you go and say, Mr. Federal Minister always throws only his face!Unknown term type: "%s".? What else do these colleagues now mentioned? Finally, for Mr Jannach and Mr Pilz: A look into the company's book would have sufficed: The owners of AGRO advertising in Upper Austria are director Sauer and Walter Lederhilger. That's it, ladies and gentlemen! – Do not continue to try to adapt a successful Federal Minister. You have enough work to do with your non-agricultural knowledge. Look at you getting clean with yourself, and try with us to shape the agricultural policy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3423	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3444	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Jacob Auer, it is a difference whether a party is inserating something that is permissible or whether the Farmers' Federation is systematically serving itself, possibly even legally, for decades at the Agriculture Ministry system, AMA Marketing, pleasure region. That's a big difference! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of BZÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I was this weekend watching elections in Montenegro. We had to take the choice there, and we also had a briefing on corruption on the Western Balkans in Montenegro. I could have recommended that Montenegrins come here, because in view of what is going on in this debate, what happens throughout the environment of the Ministry of Agriculture, the AMA Marketing, it must be said that Montenegro could have learned something more about how to really operate corruption, because what has happened here for decades is systematic legal theft on the tax money! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is unacceptable to the taxpayer! The Court of Auditors report clearly states: 30 million € for self-indulgence. Mr. Minister, how are you doing? – Minister of Science, daughter, who needs every euro, has already gone out because he no longer holds this debate, can no longer hear how money is wasted. Mrs Federal Minister Fekter is still here and he is listening to how money is wasted, where we need every euro. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich shows a panel with bar graphs.]] I would also like to speak to this panel. Perhaps the advertising budget of the Ministry of Agriculture has fallen over the last ten years, but in return, the budget of AMA Marketing, which we cannot control as MEPs, has increased exorbitantly. And this AMA marketing advertises in the farmer's newspapers, advertises in the farmer's calendar, it advertises exclusively in the interest of the Ministry of Agriculture. There is no doubt that money is wasted, and in my view the Minister is fully responsible for it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Only briefly the list: Farmers' Federation: 3 million funding over the last ten years. We also need to highlight the Eco-Social Forum: EUR 600 000 per year. No one knows what they are doing with it, except a newspaper they are produced by the Austrian agricultural publisher, who belongs to the Lower Austrian Farmers' Federation. The “Forum Land” has already been addressed. Mr Auer, you promised a year ago when colleague Grillitsch resigned from the whole affair around Telekom that there would be some clarification. Today, not even the homepage of “Forum Land” is online. We know, however, that 3.4 million have flown there – without a recognizable return. That's a scandal, and that's why what you say is unbelievable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the biggest criticism is the lack of control, and that is why we are in such a way that the Committee of Inquiry continues, because we as Members have no control rights. The AMA Marketing with a budget of €20 million is advertised in all kinds of newspapers, including the newspaper of the Upper Austrian Farmers' Federation. 20 million €! The Members have no control right. Enjoying region Austria: Hundreds of thousands of euros are spent on advertising, with the Minister’s counterfeit – no control by the MEPs. ‘Forum Land’ – no control. Eco-social forum – no control. Agro.Project.Verein – no control. It would be so important for Parliamentary control to be introduced in these areas, so that it can be made clear how money is being thrown away. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A word of honesty, too, about how to deal with our requests on the part of the Ministry. The homepage, costs it €4 million, costs it €5 million, costs you 1.2 million? Mr Zanger has made a request to the homepage this year. The Ministry, Mr. Minister, announces that the homepage would have cost only €430 000. So much for honesty. Or at the Agricultural Information Centre: the same. The answer to the question is that there is no contact with the Agricultural Information Centre. The Court of Auditors report shall disclose: EUR 90 000 per year. All this is a tactic of concealment! This is absolutely inappropriate and belongs immediately discontinued! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Some examples: Here we have the magazine, Jakob Auer knows it, “Listen to the Land”, Upper Austrian Farmers’ Federation. [[The speaker shows each of the listed ads.]] Here is an advertisement of AMA Marketing. We don't know what such an advertisement costs. Does AMA Marketing transfer 300 000 to the Upper Austrian Farmers' Federation? If she transfers a million, does she transfer 20,000? We can't control it, we don't have a control right. Or here an advertisement of the enjoyment region, also in this newspaper of the Upper Austrian Farmers' Federation, an advertisement with Minister of Agriculture Berlakovich. No control! No one knows how money is transferred directly to the peasantry. These things would be absolutely clear in a committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the biggest corpus delicti, a lot has already been talked about. I would like to add another aspect, so that the same thing is not always said. When you look through this paper, an advertisement strikes your eye, which is what you see here: This is from Austrian hail insurance. I printed it large enough for everyone to see: Austrian hail insurance. Everyone knows that the premiums for agriculture are made 50 percent by the farmers and 50 percent by federal government and country, and I expressly say that Austrian hail insurance does good work, I do not agree with Austrian hail insurance. But what is not going on and what is inappropriate is that Austrian hail insurance operates with the Minister's counterfee. That reminds us very much of ÖBB and ASFINAG, which is a real scandal. Look You here: “The hail helps” – a listing in the “Farmerszeitung” –, presented by Berlakovich, presented by Hellerer, presented by Elisabeth Köstinger – paid by Hail insurance. This is a real scandal, and the Committee of Inquiry should have followed it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have the same thing once again in the “Austrian Farmers Newspaper” with colleague Jakob Auer. – The Austrian hail insurance has replied to my request that it is not known there and that it is natural to use VIPs from the agricultural sector for ads. And most important: The Federal Minister has never had anything to do with it in any way! [[Abg. Strache: Name illegal party funding, or what does that mean now?]] Anyone who knows the Austrian system knows exactly how it works, and it is inappropriate for Austrian hail insurance to do such things! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am actually disappointed by the chiefs of hail insurance who are unable to stand up to the things they are doing. The only thing I got today was an article from “Look into the Land” of 2002, a comment by Mathias Reichhold, in which he praises hail insurance. That wasn't an listing, that was a comment. And that's where I've been told that you've also been advertised with the liberals. – Yes, they also advertised with the liberals, namely, €970 in five years – and not €100 000 as at the Farmers' Federation! A small example at the end, so that everyone knows how it really works. That's the farmer's calendar. [[The speaker keeps a copy of the Carinthian Farm Calendar 2012 up to date.]] Each federal state has a farmer's calendar: lupenrein Farmers' Federation. I've put together how this is financed. [[Abg. Eßl: That's not true! That's not right!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] - Yeah, that doesn't matter, you can get out of here. Kärntner Farmer's Federation – this is by chance from Carinthia, you will find it in other federal states – ad: AMA Marketing. Direct financing! – A minority programme, this issue. No one knows what AMA Marketing has transferred to the Farmers' Federation in Carinthia. In nine Länder, farmers' calendar with such ads. Detto further ads – so that we can also quote this –: Of hail insurance anyway – that's clear. And then we have a very funny listing: This is the harvest festival that costs €150 000. Harvest festival presented at ‘Forum Land’: 3.4 million in ten years – directly to the peasantry, no control. It's clean, because what's going on is pure party financing! It would be really welcome if that were to be stopped. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have to say this again in all clarity: Corruption and Vetternwirtschaft in the Ministry, at AMA Marketing and in all these near areas of the Ministry of Agriculture, smell to heaven! And that is also the reason why the Committee of Inquiry has been turned off. We are absolutely in favour of continuing this process, because there is a great deal to be studied here. But above all – and this as a conclusion – I would like to appeal to the ethics and to the morality that you yourself have spent as a parole with Vice Chancellor Spindelegger. What's going on here is just not right. That's money shift in great style, and that's more than corruption.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3631	Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3652	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Minister for Agriculture and the Environment! I guess we agree on one thing: Every cent of support and support measures for small and industrial farmers is urgently needed. Minister for the Environment, every cent in the environmental support programmes is urgently needed. We also agree in one, especially the opposition: Every euro that goes on advertising in excess is a lost euro, especially if it only serves to make Mr. Minister's image shine through the newspapers once again. I think we agree. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Let's put an end to this ghost!]] Now, thanks to my previous speakers, we have heard numerous examples of how the Farmers' Association is intertwined about the “farmers’ News” as well as, so to speak, party funding, covert party funding by the Ministry of Agriculture, is simply a suspicion moment. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But there's another scene. Mr Minister, you are not only responsible for agriculture but also for the environment. And here we have really proven lupen-only – lupen-onlyly demonstrated by a Court of Auditors report – how you have been using climate protection funds that should be used to promote solar energy, with climate protection funds that support climate change as a whole, or say it: climate-saving measures – that is the right thing to do. They have used – and this is clearly demonstrated in the Court of Auditors’ report – these few funds available to the Climate Fund for advertising, in order to ensure that solar roofs are advertised at a first stage. We are all well-known – and the Court of Auditors has made it clear again – that it would not have been necessary to advertise for this because it was a self-trailer. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: It's been over for three months! Listed in September and passed in July! - Absurd!]] Solar promotion was a self-trailer! She was well known, she was known in all regions of Austria, and she was immediately sold out in good German. She was immediately out of print, she was immediately exhausted. And yet – we have discussed it in committee – you have advertised! They have advertised, and this is not a single-digit thousand euro amount, no, it was three-digit thousand euro amounts! And these amounts only served to make a mistake. You told us in the Committee of Inquiry that you wanted to make a mistake in the first information campaign. And that's why hundreds of thousands of euros were your photo – really: [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: No!]] Minister Berlakovich from Scheidel to the sole – visible, next to a solar roof. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] And then – I still have the text in front of me – in one line The action runs until 4. November. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] – For this 4. November a whole Berlakovich, next to a beautiful solar roof, really had to take thousands, hundreds of thousands of euros through the media. And that's abuse! This is mainly because not even the board of directors, the Managing Directors of the Climate Fund, knew of it. They've only been informed afterwards! [[Abg. May. Kogler: (at Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. The black Faymann!]] There was a correspondence between your place of business and the climate fund, where it was also noted: according to the Bureau's instructions. Behind the back of those responsible in the climate fund, who fight for every euro and every cent for funding measures, behind the back of the management of funds, according to the Bureau – as well as the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment – BMVIT will be thrown out in a sad twilight – Zig thousand euros for information containing a small line – the reference to the 4. November – but a big Berlakovich. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schultes]] – That’s real! This is really the abuse that the Court of Auditors condemns and which we have repeatedly discussed in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the Court of Auditors' report, it is quite clear how much the valuable funds of the climate fund, which we are constantly fighting in this area in every budget debate, have increasingly been drawn into advertisements. Ascending: 2008 minimum, 2009 already a huge amount; 2010: it goes more; 2011: it will be even more. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: No, it's not true! These are no ads! The programs have started, and!]] It is always advertised with climate funds! Mr. Minister, back with the money! In addition to the pockets of people who need promotions, they can make their lives more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: The programs have started,!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: ( towards Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich) Calls are useless! She doesn't hear her!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] I have the Court of Auditors' report practically as the basis for the report, even here in my papers. You just need to see through it. That's the final report! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: You claim that the ads are – that's not true! That's not true!]] You have already been able to provide your comments. Some of these have already been taken into account. But I would now like to look at a main aspect. That was just an example, but the main aspect is always this lack of control – this lack of control, which we also have in the climate fund, in the use of the climate funds, which we have to suffer and endure in Parliament over and over again, in the form of faulty, flawed and false answers to parliamentary questions, and which, in particular, becomes effective when it comes to quickly waging a committee of inquiry. I know this investigation committee was successful. You are right, Mr Klubobmann Kopf, to be reformed – I am quite on your side – in many areas, including the rules. That's where we really should get to work quickly. But what we also urgently need, so to speak, in the same step – you have already signed, Klubobmann Cap has signed – with this reform of the internal regulation, is minority law. And this is also the foundation of active parliamentary control, to which we all confess, but which we manage differently and which some ministers have very sloppy handling. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3859	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e3880	Mr President. High house! I am very surprised, as representatives of the ÖVP Group have just tried to justify, almost legalize, this advertising machine for feeding the farmland and ÖVP-near associations. It is all “best. ” – Legalisation, Mr Bartenstein, yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] It is not new that the ÖVP – I have been observing this since I was in politics for 25 years – takes fat into the control pot to fill the pockets myself. This is what the mayors do with the mayors' newspapers, this is what the national leaders do with the national newspapers, with the ads – even where red ones are, of course – and this does at the federal level of the ministers of agriculture. And then I wonder, because you're here and you're saying everything best, everything fine; that's the money the taxpayer pays, and that's what we're spending on our ÖVP close clubs! – Mr Bartenstein, you are completely wrong. [[Abg. Amon: Are you at Stronach? Or?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: an advance, an aisle?]] And that's why I understand why you want to turn the investigation committee off. They don't want to tell the public how to do this. There is also no regulatory for advertising in the Federal Government. Where is the purpose defined? How is he checked? How was the target audience addressed? What do you want? What's the range? What are the costs? – That would normally be marketing, specialist marketing. But what you're doing here is cheap propaganda for a black minister. Ladies and gentlemen! When I see this newspaper in Burgenland – I have a second edition here –: [[The speaker shall keep the copy of a newspaper page up to date]] There's Minister Berlakovich on half a page. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich:... Vorarlberger Zeitung!]] – This is the Burgenian Minister! Look at it, this is what it says. Read it! I'd like to give it to you. [[The speaker presented a copy of a newspaper page to Federal Minister Berlakovich.]] Mr Minister, tell me now the added value of your picture in this listing! Explain to me the information value of this semi-trailer - I don't know him. This is going through the latest of examples of how you deal with public funds. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: This is an interview!]] – Below in small print stands “Anzeige”, Minister. Ready! You at the ÖVP must complete the applications and texts, not always stop at half! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Don't tell me a shame! It's down there. [[Abg. Grosz: Minister, you advertise the interviews! You advertise the interviews!]] Even the interviews you advertise because otherwise you won't get any more due to your professional qualification! That's how it looks in this country, ladies and gentlemen. I should therefore like to remind you that the ÖVP resort has spent only around 30 million on advertising from 2006 to 2011. That was Your predecessor Josef Pröll, who then failed, and also you. [[Abg. Bucher: He started with it!]] The focus is on the photos: 94 percent of the ads are covered by photos of you. Maybe you missed the job, Minister, maybe you should have become a photo model? Or you apply for “Austria’s Next Topmodel”. [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] You have a job to do here, Mr Minister, and we from the BZÖ do not say that there should be no ads that really inform – against which we have nothing. But what you're doing here is to reject pure propaganda for the benefit of the ÖVP and its fields and strictly. In 2006 you spent only 450 000 € for photographers – only for photographers! [[Abg. Booker: This is crazy!]] Has the photographer so often shot aside, or have you had no attitude in photographing? I don't know. Imagine: 450 000 € only for the photographer. That's amazing! [[Interlocutory calls from Dr Bartenstein and Amon.]] Do you know what money farmers have to work outside the country - compared to what are these sums, Mr Bartenstein? Ask the farmers if they find this as funny as you are just now. [[Abg. Petzner: The Bartenstein cost less than he was a minister!]] And then the fields of the ÖVP are in front of it: There are photos of the Minister for the enjoyment region, two-sided interviews. At the AMA one can see the Minister in the jausn. This is really a very “valuable technical information. ” Mr Minister, I would They are very urgent to ask: Explain to me the technical information to see you at the jausn, the added value that this has for the farmers. Or think of what Mr Moser said: At the KLI.EN, the money is thrown out to apply for the photovoltaic promotion, which was actually granted 17 minutes after midnight, because the pot is far too small. What else do you want to apply for? Ask the small and medium-sized enterprises that want to apply, the house builders who want to have such things that don't get money – and you apply for this with say and write 267,000 €! And that's how it continues. Advertisers: 60 to 89 percent only on party newspapers of the ÖVP et cetera. As far as your homepage is concerned, say You here: Well, four million, you have to think differently, that's four or five years. – Yes, but in total it is 4.4 million. It is. The content is also filled with ÖVP fields, as you know very well. There's really a friend party at the work, which you need to cut neatly, where you have to set up regulars and where you need to clarify. And that's what we demand of you, nothing else. Mr. Minister! You should finally do your job for the farmers, you should do your job to expand the renewable energy, the green jobs in Austria, in order to finally meet the climate targets in Austria. You should leave your fingers behind from pointless projects such as the E10, and you should also make some progress in nuclear policy with a courageous BZÖ and try to stop what is being done here in Europe. Finally, make a policy of matters – instead of an image policy at the expense of taxpayers, because the Austrians have long paid enough for your emeralds.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4076	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4098	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Grosz, where is the request that we have decided at the Federal Party Conference to leave it here today? [[Abg. Booker: It's only brought in!]] No, he's already here. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] The motion for a resolution is already here. However, there is only the reference to the party day on it, the other is all your writing. [[Abg. Grosz: But we are not the SPÖ party, Mr. Cot! We are here at the Austrian National Council!]] Secondly, Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ: I think that if we here decide on a minority right for ourselves, then this cannot be a request for a resolution addressed to the Federal Government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Of course! That is what we have already decided here. Your party has decided!]] This is our task, ladies and gentlemen. That's our job! [[Abg. Petzner: If you don't know yourself, sit down!]] Thirdly, If we have a common practical model here, then there will be nothing against a decision. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: You decided to do it! That's exactly the request you decided to make!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 2008, four parties against the ÖVP!]] [[Abg. Grosz: This is word-identifiable your application!]] The television viewers – here inside are not many spectators, but also some; good day, ladies and gentlemen! – will think: It does it again in this high house! It's a disaster, what's happening here! – Today the ads are taken across and across. The Federal Minister is addressed here in the greatest way. And there should be some such events. I would like to say to the spectators: Before this discussion today, this House has already passed two laws: on the one hand, the Media Transparency Act, which will regulate these things in the future, will prevent it from developing here, and on the other hand, the Party Law, which will ensure that party funding is made transparent. These laws have already been passed in advance. – The work of the House is not that bad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundesminister, on the ads only one remark: It is said again and again and again and I read that it is absolutely necessary that information is provided in the “farmer newspaper”. – Yes, what else should be in the “farmer newspaper” if not information for the farmers? Do you have to turn off such expensive ads? - But that's your problem. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction SPÖ) On Saturday you decide something on the party day, which you no longer want on Monday!]] [[Abg. Petzner: 10 percent less for Werner Faymann again!]] [[Call at the BZÖ:Now it's soon under 80!]] I would suggest that we use this money to talk more to those who want to buy the products of our farmers, i.e. consumers. They have to be contact persons, because farmers suffer from the fact that they no longer put on their stuff and that it means it's too expensive. So there is certainly a level to be created where we can talk about it in the future. - So much for it. Federal Minister Berlakovich, to the homepage costs: You've been through several times today, I'm not going into the numbers at all. They say that because the content management system was so expensive, I know what else. [[Call for the call.]] – That means as much as: the system that allows you to enter something from outside into the homepage. That's just for those who asked me what that means. I know two ministries, namely the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs, which have created a homepage for the Red and White Red Card, with all the inside, and it has cost 60 000 € net. [[Abg. Petzner: It is noticed that you are struggling to defend Mr. Berlakovich!]] [[Abg. Petzner: A hard job! Soon you made it!]] I therefore think that there must be some considerations here, especially as this agricultural and forestry data centre has already employed the Court of Auditors in the period 2002 and has already been found at that time, that it was intruding that these payments are not quite transparent that there is a mixture. [[Abg. Petzner: I didn't understand that now! Can you explain this to me again?]] I also do not understand the in-house award, if it was said in the reply of Mr Pröll, the Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, is not involved in the agricultural and forestry data center. So where's the in-house award? – We will certainly be talking about this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Where is Mr Hagen, Mr Petzner?]] [[Abg. Grosz: And where is the Lord Köfer? – Mr. Hagen is sitting with Mr Köfer!]] Finally: In today’s “profile” it is to be read that Mrs. Finanzminister or her ministry proposes that in future the Bundesrechenzentrum do these things, i.e. the homepages. [[the speaker holds a small folded page from a magazine in hand]] [[Abg. Petzner: What's a newspaper, colleague Gaßner?]] – I'll tell you right now; be quiet for a while. [[Call BZÖ: Is that a pocket format paper?]] [[Abg. Petzner: He always has that with him!]] – And in there it is said, 650 000 € is the limit for the homepages. Of course, that's strange right now. Some Ministries are immediately excited that this is far too much; the Minister of Agriculture would not get there. This Regulation should enter into force from 2013. And for those who would like to read it – Mr Petzner, look here! –: [[The speaker keeps the page up again]] This is a normal “profile”. You'll be able to buy it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4444	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4465	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At first maybe because some are so excited, if here are representatives who are in government functions, the counterfee is pictured here Rudi Anschober, the country Upper Austria, taxpayers, a third counterfee, almost two thirds of the text. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Petzner]] [[Abg. Petzner: This has already been brought by Mr Auer! Please, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]] Again: Land Oberösterreich, Rudi Anschober from the Greens – tax funds used. Here Landesrat Haimbuchner, Land...
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4504	Mr Petzner! intermediate calls on the matter are invigorating; But they interfere with permanent calls.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4531	... Upper Austria. – So I think we should really be restrained by the criticism of using ads. [[Abg. Grosz: We would have liked to have the cost of printing from Telekom too!]] By the way, I also ask you: Why, of course, should it not happen to a politically responsible person, if it is now in force in the framework of the Media Transparency Act? Because this is really remarkable when we deal with today's subject matter. First of all, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you. You have, of course, postponed the departure to an important international conference in order to speak and answer the House today, just as you, Mr Federal Minister, have, of course, come to the Examining Committee in order to be available to the Members there too. [[Abg. Grosz: The first one tomorrow...!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Petzner: Thank God! The airport staff have already been afraid that you need to get out again!]] And what about the survey in the investigation committee? – So first of all, someone from the opposition, as well as today, has come back with this alleged “SPAR” listing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] We have already explained this to the Committee, Mr Petzner, that this was not an advertisement, but the company "EUROSPAR" has approached the Minister of State and asked him if he would not be willing to be available as a testimonial. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] [[Abg. Grosz: A print cost contribution!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Petzner]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Bitch.]] The Federal Minister has promised. I know you'll never be asked if you're available as a testimonial. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You paid a little more to the Minister yourself! How much more has been paid to the Minister?]] The Federal Minister is also a credible promoter of healthy food. This is also related to your agricultural policy, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And what was the second thing we discussed about the Committee of Inquiry has discovered so much on these questions? The second was the Court of Auditors' raw paper, ladies and gentlemen. As the name says, this is just a rough report: a report that is not finished, which is not through, where the Ministry has not yet had the opportunity to comment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true at all!]] And that's not armed equality. These are unfair accusations, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we reject them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And then, because there are supposedly so many issues left open in the Committee of Inquiry and that is why it is absolutely necessary to hold a special meeting today that deals with the Minister of State, I quote from the minutes of the Committee of Inquiry – and I would like to point out that the Minister of State has come to the Committee of Inquiry at about 6 p.m. as an informant. The honourable Member, Mr Petzner, will say at some point: “A final question, very briefly. I assume you've read today's newspapers. Have you read the ‘Small Newspaper’ today?’, ask the Federal Minister. A really important question you have asked. [[Abg. Petzner: You must read on!]] The Federal Minister replied: “No, I don’t. I have prepared for the committee.” Dr. Rosenkranz asks: “Was that already the final question?” [[New call for tender of the Abg. Petzner.]] Member of Parliament: “This was the final question.” [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] “Then I’ll give you an article for night study. You should have read today’s edition of the ‘Small Newspaper’.” So you were obviously done with the survey. [[Abg. Petzner: Exactly!]] Mr Gässner then says that he has no further questions, and then – it will take a while for Parliamentary Pilz to have a lot of questions – Mr Obmann Dr. Rosenkranz asks this: “Was that the last question now? “ [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Yes!]] That was the last question. This explains Obmann Dr. Rosenkranz “the survey of the information person Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich for ending, thanking for his appearance, adopts and directs him to a confidential meeting of the Rules of Procedure. There were no more questions to Federal Minister Berlakovich, and today you stage this media-public as if so many questions remained open. [[Abg. Huber: That's incredible!]] This is not what you are going to do, Mr Petzner. I would like to tell you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And one last thing – if I still find it now; I have it – I would like to give you so to say on the journey to the many discussions that we will have in the near future, because media coverage is not always as precise as it would like to say it itself, and because the media sometimes also say that our questions in the committee of inquiry would not be quite as precise or we would have no interest in the investigation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz]] [[Abg. Grosz: Then you have to advertise more!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Co-committee, that would be the solution!]] I mentioned earlier that the Federal Minister Berlakovich had come to the Investigation Committee by 6 p.m. At 6:35 p.m., the first question was asked to him – at 6:35 p.m., the first question was asked to him! – because there were first teachings, it took a while for the media representatives to take their place again, and then the Minister of the State gave an introductory opinion. And at 6.19 p.m., an editorial appears – that is, a quarter of an hour before the first question was asked to the Federal Minister! –, and what does this editor write for the next day? “Minister Berlakovich and Secretary of State Ostermayer looked bad on some issues.” – That’s how “exact” is partly reported, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Who was that?]] And this is a pity because it does not reflect what actually happened in the committee of inquiry. And there, too, the media should sometimes take a bit of a nose.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4825	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. Time left: 6 minutes. Please, my colleague. –
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4862	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr. Federal Minister, there have been enough trips to the Committee of Inquiry. Unless thank God, at some point there was no more questions to the Minister, otherwise we might still be sitting there now and could not take part in this meeting. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yes, I understand the excruciating and excruciating cheerfulness of the ÖVP, especially with the officials of the Farmers' Federation. After all, you have not recognized one thing, even with these newspaper inserates, which you have shown here: There was no party newspaper. There was not a single newspaper of the Farmers' Federation in which it was advertised, nor was other factions advertised in its own party newspaper. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schultes]] There is an optical difference, even though I may notice that in the ÖVP this view, which belongs to Austria, may not be quite as sharp, especially if it belongs to the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The next thing: Mr Colleague Auer has shown an advertisement with our Upper Austrian Obmann Haimbuchner. That was an listing of the FPÖ. Now, the Federal Farmers' Government wants to tell us whether we are allowed to picture the FPÖ politician or not if it pays the FPÖ!Unknown term type: "%s".? So that's...! – Are You remained spiritually at the regular table from Sunday? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I don't know what's going on now, please. A party inserat, and there the FPÖ cannot even picture their own top candidates? – Very original! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] Mr Gaßner, I really liked that you have created economic relations with the value of such a homepage of €60 000. So there's in the relation to this 4.3 million € obviously something really isn't! What has finally been said to us by the Federal Minister? He – he always has such a taferl that he shows – is the guarantee that he has saved 40 percent, and he has pressed all these advertising expenses to € 30 million. – Yes, we are proud now, after 25 years of ÖVP ministers in the department! What happened before? We should ask this question once. If you are now the light form, what did the whole policy of the predecessors look like? There are some. We brought together Mr Riegler, Mr Molterer, Mr Fischler and Mr Josef Pröll. You've all been talking about the money so much that you had to come now to save so much? – That was very bright, very important for us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] One thing came up with my colleague Klubobmann's head. He meant that it was all for criminalization. Always this criminalization. There are ads, yes. If a matter is sufficiently documented documented, there will be an ad; and if that is not knowingly wrong, it is no slander either. Then it is that which would be the duty of every citizen, namely, something which cannot be in order in criminal matters. The FPÖ also always stands for this. Mr Vilimsky has put something in place that can be called the Faymann listing affair. Now we have also thrown the data presented by the Court of Auditors' Raw Report into criminal proceedings and filed them. Criminalization? – Finally, justice will have to decide whether there is something. I can only notice one thing: Why are only the liberals always man enough to say we show? [[Call:Don't vote]] Why is it always, when it comes to liberals, the cowardice so great that it is always just anonymous ads, with best media contacts? You always know this right away: Anonymous ad, media, and the prosecutor says, yes, we'll figure it out. So there you have to say: In fact, political courage is not particularly great for the opponents of the liberals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] On the matter of the consent of the Federal Minister, Minister of Information, Berlakovich, to the Committee: I can remember from the Presidency that he has always explained government programmes on the issues of the EIA Members, especially Mr Hornek. And to the requests of Members: Do you know what this €900 000 is, what with this €380 000, what with this €35 000, where they flowed? , he said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] I'm just going in the direction. I don't have anything to do with all this little work down there, I don't care. That is precisely political responsibility. That's the right word for it. You don't know what's happening in your resort. At least you said that, under the duty of truth! If you hadn't said the truth and now you know it very well – well, I don't think so at all. Mr Kopf said that this committee of inquiry has such a problem: Things always come to the public, to the media. Mr Kopf! Ask Why do you always show acts of justice and home affairs in the media without a committee of inquiry? Where's the reconnaissance? [[It was in favour of FPÖ and BZÖ as well as representatives of the Greens.]] I am almost grateful if the investigation committee is not supplied with any files. Then the members of the committee are not in the general suspicion of becoming media leaders or of doing the same, and perhaps against money, using power, because things go out. The last thing I would like to mention is: It is embarrassing how – whether it is a raw report or something else – the Court of Auditors' expertise is dealt with. Mr Heinzl said, with regard to the notices to the ÖBB, that there was an official of the Court of Auditors: What can you do? Do you have any idea about advertising? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] Although the RH employee is a business administrator, she has studied Jus, she is a constitutional lawyer; She has just said that she does something for the purpose, accuracy, fairness, legality, economics and so on, Mr Heinzl, did you look into the eyes of the journalists only once when you tried to kill this highly qualified official of the Court of Auditors? [[Abg. Heinzl: I haven't heard such a fool what you say yet!]] She didn't deserve it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On this issue of dealing with the Court of Auditors in Lower Austria too, if the Court of Auditors shows something: Let us be aware that the Court of Auditors is an auxiliary body of Parliament and deserves our support – and not that Members are trying to kill highly qualified staff there! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] It's unheard of and a scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e4994	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5015	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Calls and calls between Mr Heinzl and Dr Rosenkranz.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is to be thought of by a Minister of Agriculture when he was on 2 July 1989? In the Committee of Inquiry on October 2012 on what the ownership of the “Austrian Farmers' Newspaper” currently looks like, the following actually answers: ‘So I do not know the ownership of the ‘Austrian farmers’ newspaper.’ This, ladies and gentlemen, says a Minister of Agriculture, who himself was the chairman of the German Farmers' Federation for a long time! Perhaps this is the blind spot, because the Burgenland farmers' association is not involved in the “farmerszeitung”, but all other country organizations are very well. What is particularly strange and is a special feature is that Members of this House are faithfully taking responsibility here in a media empire. Not just Mr. Jakob Auer, ladies and gentlemen. No, the AV-Holding in Lower Austria says – and if you look at the company book excerpts, they are sometimes very honest: The Landtagsreiter Franz Mold and Landtagsreiter Economist Karl Moser are named with their political titles. But at the President of the Chamber and Deputies Ing. Hermann Schultes is not a function behind it, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, that's how it looks! [[Call at the FPÖ: Maybe that's another one!]] At the Federal Councillor Martin Preineder is not behind which political function he exercises. These are the realities! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Handlanger...!]] Where, ladies and gentlemen, in what country is there a situation where Members or representatives of a government are part of a media empire? Guess where that is, Mr Schultes. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Russia!]] - Yeah, maybe in Russia. There is still a closer country – Italy. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Italy!]] That's right. That's what it looks like. Therefore, the turning off of this Committee of Inquiry is already a mistake because of this networking of politics and the media. An argument by the Federal Minister today was self-evident. He said that he advertised in those newspapers that really arrived at the affected ones, the “farmer newspaper ” had an edition of 137,000. – Ladies and gentlemen, I am still coming to speak on it. This statement is very interesting. If it is the most important medium, it is only quite interesting how political interdependence is. One more time to colleague Jakob Aueraus Oberösterreich. He's gone now. [[Abg. Clickovits: That's not what nobody's gonna do!]] He said from the pult: No, I'm not part of AGRO advertising anymore. – I have the company book extract of 5th. July 2012 here. Two shareholders are clearly mentioned here, namely Jakob Auerwith a share of 37 500 € and a shareholder Johann Herndl with a share of 37 500 €. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Now we have almost November!]] Mr Auer! If you've changed that, then this is also a sharing confession that there's a political swamp here, which must be dried out for sure! – Mrs Fekter says that he has become a farmer's Bundesobmann. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: He has become a farmer's Bundesobmann!]] – Yes, and now it comes: Even if he is no longer in the company book extract there, the “Austrian Farmers' Newspaper” is held directly by the Austrian Farmers' Federation. There is Jakob Auer President, so he is still directly responsible for this medium. Ladies and gentlemen! This is only a part of the swamp or the beginning to make it visible at all. The first big question I have to ask is: How is it possible that such a newspaper will receive public press promotion if one knows that the guidelines of press promotion, media that are financed, “can neither be customer magazines nor press agencies of interest representatives”. Ladies and gentlemen! This paper is a press agency of a representative of interest. At least the Farmers' Federation always says that he is a representative of interest. One can be of different opinion, but this paper is not allowed to get public support. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: She doesn't get any press promotion!]] Of course, the “Farmers Newspaper” receives press promotion! You have no idea at all, Minister of State! Check the website of the Federal Chancellery. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] And then € 6 million in the last few years from your Forum Land and this Farmers' Federation department to advertise large-format for your campaigns in this paper! On this occasion, Minister of State: They have – and this would be the task of the Committee of Inquiry – obviously also carried out advertising campaigns financed by EU funds. [[The speaker holds a panel up.]] The EU emblem is just as above. You've shown different networks here. This is a cooperation with the Farmers Newspaper, with the support of the federal, state and European Union. These are your campaigns. And what do they look like in practice? – You look like this [[the speaker holds another panel in height]] A side where almost half Berlakovich is herself. That is consistently, there are seven, eight, nine such contributions in the “farmers ’ newspaper. ” For this, this newspaper will receive millions and possibly additional resources from other channels! Ladies and gentlemen! Ultimo – it is already incredible how unfrozen and obviously ÖVP Agriculture Ministers and Farmers' Federation finance large jubilee events of the Farmers' Federation. The Feast of Harvest in the Autumn of Vienna is a Farmers' Federation event, which is no secret. That is supposed to be something that my colleagues do not mind. But with the support of the Ministry of Agriculture and at the same time the Austrian People's Party?- Oh, my God! There is not an advertisement, but two giant inserates in the “farmer newspaper. ” If this is not hidden party funding, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: It's open anyway!]] I do not know where politics in Austria should lead if we keep silent. In view of such scandals that you have to answer from ÖVP and Farmers' Federation, we cannot remain silent. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] It's a scandal. This is unacceptable, immense, and we will do everything we can to enable the Committee of Inquiry to continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5220	Next speaker: Mrs. Schenk. You've got two minutes left to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5242	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Causa Berlakovich has reached a new negative peak regarding the misuse of tax money for party policy purposes. The affair of Faymann was an insanity, but this scandal and what was said by the speakers today almost surpasses this scandal. Faymann was punished by the party base at the party day on the weekend. With 83.43 percent, he has achieved the worst result in recent party history without candidates, ladies and gentlemen. You have to say that. Mr Berlakovich, you will also receive this penalty at the latest next year's elections. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This scandal is obvious and really an insanity – allow me to say these words. Mr Auer, it will not help you if you try to lead distraction maneuvers and shake maneuvers towards opposition parties and distract them from your own misunderstandings. The Committee of Inquiry has already been consulted. How important the Committee of Inquiry is and how important the work of the Committee of Inquiry is, we have also discussed enough – indeed, the time is running, I cannot speed up. [[Interoperability call at the BZÖ]] The time has come for me to make a request in this context, which my colleague Mr Grosz has already announced: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this request was made on 25 May. This resolution, which I have now read, was adopted here in the House of Four in September 2008. The ÖVP did not vote in favour at the time, the SPÖ very much voted in favour. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, both you and the spectators at home can take a picture of what it looks like with the promise, with the word of the SPÖ, whether the word of two days ago, from the party day, still holds, or whether they will vote differently again, against their party base and against Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5329	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5393	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. Time left: 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5414	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate Mrs Financiary Minister! High house! I listened to the discussion now and I thought: What would farmers think if they heard what's going on? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Go out to the farmers!]] We have with us, in our structure, the peasantry throughout Austria. It builds up from local groups, from district groups, from regional groups. Together they carry the Austrian Farmers' Federation. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What do you think the farmers are just saying about you?]] For over 100 years, this has been the case, and we have learned from the beginning that most others have relatively little left for us. We've learned that communication is the most important thing for us. That's why we've built up media that bring what we need, where we stand, what interests us. It is true that today we also have the Internet as a medium. 80 percent of farmers under 40 years of age use the Internet regularly for their professional purposes, 33 percent of farmers look at the AMA homepage at least once a week to see what is new. Farmers News is the binding medium. As it has now been discussed about the ads of Mr Berlakovich's Federal Minister, I can tell you: Even when there were SP Agriculture Ministers, of course, these have been advertised in the “farmers’ newspaper”, because there is where farmers are reached. There is no newspaper in Austria that has such a high reader frequency as the “Farm Newspaper”. There is no newspaper that has such a high reader frequency, and there is no newspaper in which the information of the farmers can be checked for truth as it is in the “farmer newspaper. ” [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true! There is no such a polemic organization as the “Farm News” throughout Austria!]] Farmers themselves advertise in this paper because they know that the ads are read. Anyone who wants to arrive at the farmers will be well advised to do the same. The fifth is colleague Anschober, he has also advertised in the “farmer newspaper” because he knows his message is coming. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Our Federal Minister Berlakovich has two directions in his public relations. One is the general public who needs to understand and know why we are moving in the right direction in agriculture. [[Abg. Petzner: The second is the ÖVP!]] Export success, domestic market successes, our quality offensive, organic, the share of the market we can keep in the quality segment, show us that the way is right. Communication with the Austrians works. The reputation of the farmers increases and is high. This is because the joint communication of the associations, the chambers and the Federal Minister is good. [[Abg. Petzner: Where is the second part now?]] Communication inwards is equally important. It is important for farmers to know where the priorities are, how we position ourselves in the EU. The minister must have all the people behind him, he'd be helpless if he didn't go the way. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Petzner: He's poor!]] He wouldn't be a minister then! He would then be one who might perhaps like Parliament, perhaps the opposition, but for Austria, it is important that the Minister of Agriculture shows where it goes that farmers know how they are. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You haven't talked to a farmer for a long time!]] As prior to that, it was criticized that advertisements were made for farmers: 80 percent of all farmers read the “Farmers News ” because they know that they are addressed there. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Party financing is that!]] I ask you to give serious thanks to the farmers' achievements. I'm looking for you to appreciate our work. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Admit less, work more!]] To be honest, I would also like to ask you to keep the whole theater that has played there today, that you return to the reality of people. Do you know what today's news is? – Again a BZOler less, again one more at Stronach; enough paid! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The news of the day is: Petzner doesn't even deserve Stronach to buy him. These are the daily news, and we should discuss it. [[Abg. Petzner: the “Farmers Newspaper” is a propaganda newspaper!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Let us, ladies and gentlemen, talk about what people really are interested in, and let us work for the people who supply Austria with the best products that lead Austria in a good direction! And that's certainly what our Minister Berlakovich is doing. Everyone should know what he has to say to the public. This happens at prices that are toughly negotiated, and he gets the same prices and discounts as any mower company when she switches an advertisement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] There you can look for what you want: It's all right. I can say one more sentence now.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5634	The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5649	I write to a pensioner who worked with us, the following: I need to write to you again, because I don't get the thing out of my mind. It's basically one – I'm not saying the word. We didn't steal anyone, we didn't cheat anyone, it was a normal business operation, like for other customers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Don't read down!]] [[Intervocations with BZÖ and Greens.]] I quote: Only the fact that we have political owners apparently entitles a political opponent to break up the company. How long will it take for other customers
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5695	Mr President, the final sentence has been very long.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5722	Ladies and gentlemen! That was the letter of a camp worker from one of our publishing houses. Be aware of who you are really doing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5752	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. Your group's remaining speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5808	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! The problem with you is not only your exploding ads, but that you politically often do exactly the opposite of what you advertise or do nothing. Three examples. – First of all: Climate protection and the listing entitled "Austria will do its climate-related tasks", which dates from 2009. Their balance sheet is a plus for CO2, plus 9 percent, and a minus for money, namely € 700 million for CO2 certificates. You did the opposite of what you advertised! Secondly, Multi-way bottle. All consumers know that the multi-way bottle disappears. We apply for binding quotas in each Environment Committee. - But you don't do anything! The only thing you do is a campaign, of course, with the corresponding ads. Consumers can write a certificate of love to the multi-way bottle, which will die out by your framework conditions. I wonder, Who are you obliged to do or not act like that? – Yes, this is your campaign, Minister. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] The third example, the Climate Fund, has been mentioned several times. have 267 000 € You were taken from the Climate Fund for Ads, for your photo, while 82 percent of all applications had to be rejected. When you talk to the people, you know they don't want anything but a photovoltaic system, but they don't get any money. If you had invested the money you took out in photovoltaic plants, 360 households could supply electricity for a year. Instead, we've seen a picture of you in your newspaper. I ask you: Who are you obliged to do that? The contradiction is that there is a difference: environmental policy in the wrong direction, contrary to environmental principles, or not at all, and on the other hand that you pretend to do something about ads. You have said it quite openly to me in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Unfortunately, the Committee on the Environment is not public, but you said to me: What are you so excited about; there is no camera there?! – I think that expresses your access to environmental policy. I can assure you that we Greens are excited about environmental issues, whether a camera is there or not. I would like an Environment Minister to be involved. – In this sense, it is obvious to everyone that Austria needs a strong, committed and independent Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5878	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e5899	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We can all ask ourselves a question: What do Karl-Heinz Grasser and Minister Berlakovich have in common? – On one side the ÖVP and on the other side a homepage affair. [[Call the ÖVP: What do you have with Petzner?]] Mr Berlakovich, if this tax evasion scandal would not be so serious, one could even laugh at that joke. Your homepage, Mr. Federal Minister, will cost the taxpayer €8.7 million by 2015. These are 40 Grasser homepages or 2 500 homepages, as they have the Austrian entrepreneurs or the Austrian farmers at their disposal. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] IT experts say that these combined € 8.7 million are simply not a market price. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: That's not true!]] Web projects over €100 000 are almost non-existent in Austria. I do not want to say now that perhaps through the agricultural, forestry and hydroeconomic data center that has been commissioned – and without a tender – that some small donation has flown to your party. But it does seem like it. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Minister Berlakovich, you pay for the current operation and for any adjustments around €64 000 a month – and that until 2015. I ask you: How do you explain to the farmers in this country that you have agreed to the increase in pension insurance contributions? How do you explain to the farmers in this country that you have agreed to the removal of the reimbursement of the mineral oil tax? How do you explain to the farmers in this country that there is still the forced happiness in the form of the peasantry? And how do you explain to the farmers in this country that needs to be saved, but you spend € 8.7 million on a homepage? [[Interim remarks by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich.]] Of course we still have the ads. These have been mentioned very often today; Advertising in newspapers such as “Austrian Farmers Newspapers”, “FarmersJournal”, “Look into the Land” or other ÖVP and Raiffeisen-near newspapers – €29 800 000, Minister. Mr Minister, now I, like my previous speakers, am staying at the “Austrian Farmers' Newspaper” because you are alleged not to know the ownership of the “Austrian Farmers' Newspaper”. However, they sit on the board of the Austrian Farmers' Federation, which is at least the editor of the “Austrian Farmers' Newspaper”. So you don't know that this paper is an ÖVP newspaper? [[Call the ÖVP:7 percent! The Austrian Farmers' Federation has 7 per cent!]] The editor is the Austrian Farmers' Federation. But, Federal Minister, you can ask your Board of Management colleagues, such as Johannes Juryenschlager or Karl Donabauer, Franz Windisch, Hermann Schultes, Anna Höller, Nikolaus Prinz, Jakob Auer, Franz Eßl – all Members here in the House. They are all farmers' representatives, but they are more representative of the peasantry – and not the Austrian farmers. [[Abg. Petzner: Beautiful that the BZÖ results! - That's embarrassing!]] Mr Minister, if in the last few hours you have repeatedly shook your head without understanding, I must ask you: Don't you see the homepage scandal? Don't you see the advertising scandal, Minister? Your seductive behavior, your inconceivable tax money waste, your vanity clearly shows how lurking this red-black political culture is in Austria. [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] Minister! I think you would do a great favor to the Austrian taxpayers, but in particular to the Austrian farmers if you would spend a lot of time in Großwarasdorf in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e6031	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Martina Schenk, colleague and colleagues on the establishment of parliamentary committee of inquiry as minority law. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This request does not take place in the majority of cases. Rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: SPÖ party decision! Two days old!]] [[Abg. Petzner: What is now? SPÖ party!]] [[16:08:04]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-15-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00172_d7e6085	I am still announcing that the today's meeting of the Independents' Amendment 2090/A(E) has been brought in. Questions 12788/J to 12798/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Tuesday, 16. October 2012, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
