ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e1537	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! – It’s really tomorrow. I'll open the 177. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 173 and 174. Meeting of 16 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 In October 2012, the Parliament's Directorate remained disquieted and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Dr. Matznetter, Muchitsch, Lipitsch, Skull, Slickovits, Grazdauer, Mag. Dr. Graf, Kickl, Kunasek, Brosz, Dr. Grünewald, Dr. Lichtenecker, Oillinger, Mag. Schwentner, Mag. Dr. Zinggl, Dr. Spadiut, Köfer and Dr. Bartenstein. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e1571	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Defence and Sport Mag. Norbert Darabos will be the Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger, the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied will be the Federal Minister for Women and Public Service Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek and the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Beatrix Karl will be the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. [[08:01:42]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e1626	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e1770	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request urgent consideration of the written question (12921/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Interior on "crime and asylum abuse". The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 11 a.m. The meeting will be transferred to ORF 2 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and to ORF III in full length. I'll interrupt the meeting by 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e1820	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[11:01:33]] Request for urgent procedure of Member Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues to the Federal Minister for the Interior on "crime and asylum abuse" (12921/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e1859	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 12921/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e2069	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Member of the European Parliament as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e2093	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Asylum means protection on time. The problem we can experience and perceive today – not just for a few days, but for a long time – is that the classical asylum seekers are often an exception or are an exception. We must note that Austria has become a magnet for asylum abuse, that many people who come to us come to us from very different motives and make an asylum application – mainly from economic interests – and then make quite conscious misstatements and that, in reality, there is always a circumvention of the important and right right to asylum. And often, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also the background of the asylum seekers to enjoy the achievements of the Austrian social state. The fact that many asylum seekers are mainly concerned with social benefits also shows a look at our neighbouring country Germany. ==References====External links== It decided on the need to increase benefits for asylum seekers, i.e. social benefits. What was the concrete result? – The result was that only from 1st to 10th. 3 744 asylum applications were filed on October 3. By the end of the month, more than 11 000 applications are expected in the Federal Republic of Germany, which is almost a quarter of the number of asylum applications for the whole of 2011. In the main, these are asylum seekers, especially Roma and Sinti from the Balkan countries, whose asylum applications are generally negatively rejected and rejected, because there is no aylene-relevant persecution in the countries from which they come, namely Serbia, Montenegro or other European countries. In Austria, the situation is not much different. Asylum has today become a synonym for immigration into the social state for economic policy considerations, but not because of the reasons laid down in asylum law; not because of the persecution of political or religious reasons, but because of economic policy or social policy considerations. And there Austria has become an Eldorado for certain people who consciously exploit it. If in 2010 there were still 11 012 foreigners who applied for asylum in Austria, in 2011, there were already 14,416 people – almost 31 percent more – who applied for it. In 2011, a total of 2,367 persons, i.e. 16 percent of asylum applicants, were subsequently submerged. What does that mean? – They have gone into illegality because they know that their applications will essentially be negative. Today, by September 2012, there were already 12 510 asylum applicants, which are 21 percent more than in 2011. The problem, of course, also has a European Union component, which should not be spared here, because in the last quarter of 2011 alone over the Greek-Turkish border – in the last quarter of 2011 – over 300 000 illegals have come to the European Union. This figure is not from the free statistics but from the EU Commission's half-yearly report published in June. I mean, this can only mean, in the truest sense of the word, that we have to react from our side, which is always without prior notice – and that is our liberal proposal – to suspend the Schengen limits temporarily. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be a very important, necessary step to keep out of the Schengen borders without prior notice for a week, to carry out border controls, in order to counter tow bands, which, of course, try to bring people into the country, but on the other hand also to counter organised crime. This would be an important point and an important step towards combating organised crime. We all know that there are safe states around Austria today. That is to say, every asylum-seekers coming to us on the land comes through a safe third country and, of course, would have the opportunity to apply for asylum in the safe third countries, in our neighbouring countries. You don't do that many times. We often experience that people travel through many safe countries – even through more than five safe countries – but do not think of making the asylum application there, but rather of trying to get into Austria illegally, and then, after they have traveled through several safe third countries, to make the asylum application. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] As I said, It has spoken around the world that Austria is quite an Eldorado for asylum abuse. Asylum has, of course, become a synonym for immigration, but ultimately, when you know the latest figures and statistics – and thanks to a free request, the current figures from the Ministry of the Interior have now been transmitted to us – unfortunately, God is also a synonym for crime. This is more than unfortunate, but it is, unfortunately, reality, and there is nothing to be used by good-human shame, but the facts are to be taken seriously. Over the past five years, over 40 000 suspects of crime have been identified in Austria. The top-level riders are asylum seekers from the following countries – from the statistics – as follows: Afghanistan, Algeria, Georgia, Iraq, Iran, Morocco, Libya, Nigeria, Somalia and Russia. Unfortunately, many of them use their residence status mainly to become criminally active here and conspicuous as a criminal. Especially among Afghans, the relationship between the total suspects of crime and the proportion of asylum seekers is enormous, and I make this visible once on the basis of the real figures and data: Of a total of 573 suspects from Afghanistan who were identified between January and June 2012 – that is, in a period of not even half a year, 573 suspects from Afghanistan could be identified – 407 were asylum seekers. This corresponds to a share of over 70 percent. This is also evident in the case of suspects from Algeria, as of a total of 359 suspects of crime, 223 of whom were identified as asylum seekers. The Georgians were 122 out of 225. The proportion of asylum seekers is just a conspicuously high, and that has to be thought about. You can't stand there and say we're defending this if someone with us as a criminal becomes aware of it, we understand it when someone becomes a criminal. I say quite clearly: We have no understanding of criminal offenders, and we finally have to take action there and not to keep an active watch on how this federal government is currently doing it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and the Deputies of Ing. Westenthaler and Scheibner]] The Russians are usually not Russians. They have Russian citizenship, but these are mainly people who came to us from Chechnya, and these Chechens are an interesting case for themselves. The Ministry of the Interior has already admitted at least some inconsistencies with Chechen asylum seekers and has partially also agreed, for example, that each year officially at least hundreds – but in fact much more – are expected to go from thousands of people – who are supposedly persecuted in Chechnya and who are staying here as asylum seekers travel home year after year. They travel year after year completely unhindered, although they have been persecuted there, to Chechnya, obviously visit their family members there, perhaps make vacations or whatever and then return to the social state of Austria in a completely unhindered way. It is obvious that there is no persecution at home and that it is also about networking organised crime. This is obvious if you face further developments. A Chechen terroristpat who could not be arrested until September at the Georgian-Russian border in combat proceedings, according to police reports, enjoys asylum status in Austria, as well as eleven of its fighters killed in battle on the Georgian-Russian border, because this has made this problem a reality. This is really what it can be like for the Ministry of the Interior to give protection to one or more people who boast of being representatives of a terrorist fighting group, to practice terrorist acts in the North Caucasus and to be militaryly active, to build an Islamist state there, and have been proved to have been involved in fighting. And then it comes to the point that eleven killed and a prisoner have asylum status with us, but it seems that there were always trapped in battle acts until they were shot or arrested. Or do we take the processes in the Ute-Bock-Haus in the favorite Zohmanngasse as an example: As early as May, shortly after the opening, there was what the people feared from the beginning, namely, Prügelorgia, a knife's ceremony, which ultimately led almost to the death of the person concerned, but which could be saved luckily, and violence that must not have waited long, but which were rightfully feared from the people from the beginning. Every rationally gifted person was aware that a unfortunately criminal clientele will again be quantified there. The city government has been watching, finally taking the danger of the arrants. Then we had to be taught once again to a better person, and, no, once again, some Chechens were mainly involved in violence, as we know from the police report. At all events, the proportion of asylum seekers in the total number of foreign suspects identified for murder is alarmingly high. Each murder is one too many, but eleven out of 32 suspects who were diagnosed for murder in the first half of 2012 were asylumists. And in such blatant developments and in these figures, you have to ask yourself sometime the question: Yeah, please, what's wrong? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't just wipe it out like this and say: Well, devils, what the liberals are saying again! – These are realities! Even in the case of heavy robbery, 54 of 191 foreign offenders are asylum seekers, and similar is the situation in the offences of trafficking, dangerous threat, property damage, certificate forgery, body injury et cetera. – These are realities! And you have to say clearly and clearly sometime: We don't want to take that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not want an asylum abuse in Austria. We do not want to abuse the fact that people give false reasons to ultimately in the social state. We do not want to find people who are doing criminal work here. We have enough Austrians who are criminal, because we do not want to import more crime into Austria. I say: There is a rigorous progress and a delay, and at last you have to take action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, I have to meet the administrator behind me on the government bank with the appropriate criticism, because instead of doing what the Austrian people expect, I have to do: finally stop such developments and take action against such offenders accordingly. In the illegal use of social benefits by foreigners, 78 percent are asylum seekers. That's a number that's fixed. However, it does not come from the Freedom Party, but also finds confirmation on the basis of requests – only to oppose any kind of legend, because it is always tried to present it differently. Let's not do anything! Austria has a massive problem in the field of crime. We have criminal Austrians, but we also and above all have a very high percentage of foreign crime. Of the 259,000 people identified in 2011 in total, 76,764 were not Austrian citizens and 76,6 percent were no Austrian citizens. This is an enormously high number, an enormously high proportion, which must also wake up the good people. – Do you want to rise here again as a protection officer for such offenders, or do you also notice that the Austrians rightly do not understand such developments? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria has a long tradition of granting asylum to people who also need it. We are proud of this tradition, and of course we recall the flows of refugees after the precipitation of Prague's spring 1968, the Hungarian uprising in 1956 or also during the Yugoslavia crisis in the nineties. – Yes, these were areas of problem in our neighbouring countries, where we were happy to help people who were persecuted. The Austrians have rightly and gladly helped, but what the Austrians do not want is to be exploited and to have to experience permanently that such threat scenarios in the area of Austria are fortunately long history, but today in reality there are completely other misdevelopments. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Today we are faced with asylum abuse, and this has to be stopped as soon as possible. Unfortunately, this is always an up-to-date subject area. Unfortunately, this issue remains up-to-date year after year, because the government insists on it in the area of inactivity. And that is the basic problem that we strongly criticize. We're finally demanding action. We don't want to be exploited. There are safe countries around Austria, safe states, and people traveling through these safe states have also to be sent back to these safe states to put their asylum applications there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I am of course aware that today many in the field of the asylum industry in this country have ensured a good business for themselves. Of course, there are many NGOs who are also doing a good deal with it; they have no interest in stopping the use of asylum. This would mean that one would no longer need so many caretakers that one would no longer receive so many benefits. This would be detrimental to the good business of some associations, which today have no interest in stopping this visibly existing abuse of asylum. Austria, of course, takes up asylum seekers who can show the appropriate asylum grounds – and, as has been said, according to the legal definition – on time. It's time! Asylum fraud, on the other hand, is something we want to fight strictly. In the end, it also takes the real refugees the chance of an asylum place in Austria. I mean, immigration today is not a sustainable programme, as the government parties always try to present it. These are dreams that have long been broken by the hard reality. You only have to ask reasonable persons, such as Thilo Sarrazin or Heinz Buschkovsky, both members of the German SPD, who are quite different from some good people, namely, that they are anything but a laboratory under ideal conditions and that the realities are often quite different. Immigration, as SPÖ and ÖVP do, is not even a real stoppage of holes on the labour market, but a delay of time without a solution at the expense of Austrians who are being pushed out and who ultimately lose their jobs. Immigration is partly because it has taken place completely indiscriminately for decades, unfortunately also a threat to the social state, because we have often not attracted the service providers, but because of social special benefits which everyone has already been entitled to on arrival, have attracted people who do not at all have these ideas of benefit, which we are so happy to talk about and who is so gladly stressed. Let us look at what the figures for the members of the minimum guarantee look like: In Vienna alone, we have set only one example of 26 000 minimum insurance beneficiaries who do not have Austrian citizenship – so much on the topic of service providers that have come to us in recent years and decades. If it is always said that immigration is ultimately also as important as one has always argued so far, because that means the security of the social state, of course one must also say: On the contrary! Obviously immigration means in an undifferentiated way where one does not attract service providers, but people who immigrate into the social state, the danger of this social state. We must therefore consider changing something. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say very consciously: Social special benefits should primarily become a right of citizenship, so that we attract diligent people as a provider of services, who know that they have to work and earn something first before they get this claim. This would accelerate very, very much in the positive sense. To conclude: It is important to fight asylum abuse and crime, no matter where it comes from, and we do not want to import criminals to Austria, who have to be pushed off rigorously.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e2318	In response to the question, Mrs Bundesminister für Innens Magist. Mikl's head of speech reported. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e2339	Madam President. Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Appreciate spectators in front of the screens! When it comes to asylum, it is undoubtedly a very exciting subject, but above all a very sensitive one. For years this theme has been used by both the left and the right side for panic. [[Abg. Strache: But you're sitting on the left!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I know, the one talk of feeling deportation waves and the other deliberately mix asylum with crime. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: These are your numbers!]] I say quite openly and honestly to you: I am not going to take part in this personally! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Straight: Your numbers are hetze!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But often I feel that one or the other doesn't know what it's really about. It is about the protection of people, about the protection of people fleeing from home because they fear death or persecution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I think if we look back over the last decades of the Republic, we know: Yes, we have a tradition when it comes to protecting refugees when it comes to protecting those who need help and support. And we want to continue this tradition. I have set myself two personal goals: First of all, it is important for me to give protection to people, that is, to protect people who are persecuted. Secondly, it is also important to me to state on a permanent basis the fight against asylum abuse. It is very important to me to stress again and again that it is important to close the back door for asylum abuse, and that ultimately the front door can also remain open to help those who need and need help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact is that we have less than half of asylum applications compared to 2002. The fact is, however, that we have been increasing at this low level for one and a half years, an increase from 2010 to 2011 of 31 percent and this year, in 2012, an increase of currently 21 percent of asylum applications. Yes, we have a very big challenge. On the one hand, this is a challenge that the Federal Government and the Länder face together and, on the other hand, a challenge for our society as a whole. [[Abg. New builder: No, not us! You!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] The essential question, ladies and gentlemen, is: What are we doing, and what are we doing? It is our very big goal to continue to carry out asylum procedures as soon as possible, and it is especially important for us to examine each case individually and simply to make it clear whether an asylum ground exists, whether someone is allowed to stay in the country or whether he has to leave the country. [[Abg. Scheibner: that's in the law!]] I think it is important, above all, that it should be speedy in the interests of the asylum seekers, so that we can ensure clarity without delay. Here in Parliament, we have some time ago created the legal basis for the installation of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, an institution that will enable us to conclude asylum procedures even more quickly, an institution that will guarantee us even more the rule of law and legal certainty. But what are the current procedures? And how long do we need to do that? In this regard, we can be proud of what is being done. We can be proud that we are able to complete almost 60 percent of the procedures within three months, and we can be proud that we are able to complete even about 80 percent of all procedures within six months. If we look at this in comparison with other EU countries, we can say: We're at the front! We are good on the road as far as the duration of the procedure is concerned. It is also important to distinguish between positive and negative modes. Yes, both will be issued. There are negative and positive decisions. The fact, too, Mr Klubobmann, is that of five asylum applications, four are ultimately negatively assessed and negatively decided. I say quite clearly: If the competent authorities of independent courts make decisions, these decisions must also be implemented and ultimately implemented in the near future. It is also important for us to give priority to voluntary return, but I do not hide that there will have to be deportations in the future, too, because we are simply in a rule of law and have to implement the judgments on point and point. Believe me, this is certainly not a simple task for the foreign police! Foreign politicians also do not have a heart of stone, but they must comply with the judgment, it is their responsibility and their obligation to finally comply with the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But we know – and this has already been mentioned today – that asylum abuse is also taking place. Yes, there is also that, but we also have to examine each individual case quite clearly and legally. With regard to those who come to us to have a better life, where there are no asylum grounds, it is of course also important to bring them outside of the country. For those coming from third countries, especially those from the Balkan countries – and this has already been mentioned today – we know that there are no grounds for asylum, and we have passed on to rapid procedures, which are also seeking to ensure that people leave the country as soon as possible, because there are no asylum grounds. The situation in Germany is known, but it has its origin in that there is a different system of basic care there – a problem with which we do not have to fight in Austria. Despite the rapid decision we make in this context, it is important for us to comply with the legal requirements, especially all the quality principles, and they will also be complied with. One thing I do not want to say, namely that we are not doing anything against asylum abuse. It is true that, on a case-by-case basis, asylum seekers become criminal, but I do not allow the subject of asylum to be permanently linked to crime because it is simply not true. [[Call the FPÖ:Fallwise?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Read your numbers!]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: That is where you say the untruth!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This lacks any basis, and the figures, as you, Mr Klubobmann, have described it, speak a completely different language. [[Abg. Scheibner: After what are the numbers?]] You know very well that especially in the Republic, when there is a criminal offence, there is zero tolerance – that is what I value, and we will continue to do so. [[Abg. Strache: That is why the perpetrators of Salzburg have not been tried to this day, for four years since they have almost killed a young person!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If there is a criminal offence, there are clear consequences: Then a quick procedure will be initiated immediately, coupled with an immediate designation. Even for those who already have asylum status, this is recognised in the event of a criminal offence. There are also very clear guidelines and very clear rules for this. Only when you look at the consequences there are, can you say that we have very clear criteria that we are putting very clear signs against asylum abuse. [[Call the FPÖ:No! None!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: After which is there? Pick it up!]] It is important to me, above all, to stress that we have to put the problem at the root in general. I think in particular of the Greek-Turkish border: There is not everything going on as you wish, but in this case concrete measures will be put in place to protect the external border in particular. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer]] In other words, the protection of the external border must continue to be at the top of our list of priorities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] This is a subject which is at the heart of the EU's internal Council of Ministers in Brussels. What are we doing about this in particular? – Yes, Austria too acknowledges the need for action there, the need to use human resources in particular, and the need to support FRONTEX efforts in particular, as many other EU Member States do. It is also quite clear that the struggle must continue to be directed to the tractors. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Madness!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] There are very clear measures in this respect, and we are also in close alliance with many other EU Member States in order to put in place very clear measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am thinking only of the fact that we have long been using Austrian officials on the Hungarian-Serbian border, and I am thinking above all of the fact that at the ports of Bari and Ancona, so-called swivels for tugs, we have also stationed officials to fight against tugs. These are measures that we simply know very clearly: Yes, they grab, and yes, they work! I also mentioned this problem a few weeks ago at the edge of the Forum Salzburg. I have had very clear discussions with the Serbian and the Hungarian Minister for the Interior, in which we have agreed that we are still a very clear package of measures and, above all, we will be able to implement them as soon as possible. Of course, we will continue to insist that, in particular, the EU Action Plan against Illicit Migration will be implemented in the near future. So you see that we are taking a lot of measures to meet our objective. [[Abg. Scheibner: You haven't mentioned a single one yet!]] Our goal is to help on the one hand people who need help, and on the other hand, to announce the struggle to the tractors. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now I come to your specific questions. Question 1: ==References== On October 21, 2012, a total of 21,359 asylum proceedings were pending in both institutions. On question 2: ==References== In October 2012, there were 2 513 legal asylum grants in both institutions. Question 3: This is not the case with statistics. Statistical records of judicial asylum decisions shall always take place after the decision-making month and not after the asylum application. Question 4: Statistics for the current month of October 2012 are not yet available, but by 30. In September 2012, 5 423 people were shown to leave the country due to foreign police measures. This is divided into 2 395 cases of free-will return, 1 377 forced foreign transfers, 874 repatriation and 777 Dublin transfers to the competent countries. Question 5: Of course, close cooperation with the embassies of the countries of origin is important and necessary in the issue of home travel certificates. To improve and strengthen cooperation, foreign police authorities are in permanent contact with the respective embassies and with the ministries on the ground. And, of course, intensive efforts are also being made at EU level to conclude readmission agreements. In addition, bilateral contacts are naturally intensified. In question 6 concerning the levels of exposure in the various care agencies: Traiskirchen: 1 460; West care centre in Thalham: 166; North care centre in Bad Kreuzen: 155; South care centre in Reichenau an der Rax: 66; Mitte care centre in Vienna: 134. Question 7: ==References== On October 13,773 foreigners are accommodated in organized accommodation and 6,274 strangers are housed in private quarters within the framework of basic care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] Question 8: A sustainable solution for asylum seekers across Austria could be achieved at the asylum summit. It is now up to the Federal Government to implement, together with the countries, the agreements that have been reached, in order to primarily reduce the levels of siege in Traiskirchen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: if nobody knows what?- Oh, my God!]] On the question 9: The residence obligation is part of a bundle of legal measures aimed at preventing the evasion of asylum seekers during the procedure. Question 10: In 2012, about 200 people per month have been deprived of asylum proceedings in both institutions, which, despite increased number of asylum applications, corresponds to a constant value. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] On the question 11: No, no, no, Question 12: There can in no way be talk of an exodus criminal tourism. The Ministry of the Interior has already put in place a number of measures in this regard. I am thinking of the master plan in the field of burglary crime and the measures in the area of SOKO East or SOKO car. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] A look at the criminal statistics clearly shows that there has been a decline in many forms of crime, to a reduction of about 50 percent. This means that we will continue to work to clarify and push back cross-border crime. On the question 13: With regard to crime and asylum procedures, legislation has already been adopted several times. Finally, in the summer of 2012, a change was introduced to the Asylum Act, according to which criminal asylum seekers lose their right of residence and only have more factual deportation protection during an accelerated procedure. Question 14: A clear no! Question 15: The current computer system allows only a limited number of statistics, and a new computer environment is to be used with the introduction of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: When?]] On the question 16: In addition, we have reached a solution at the asylum summit that will be taken over by the countries by the end of November, in particular by the unaccompanied minors. Of course, they deserve the best professional, special care, even that is ensured. In addition, I can report that we have currently decided to open our own school class for unaccompanied minors in Traiskirchen. Questions 17 and 18: On the basis of an EGMR judgment, no Dublin transfers to Greece from Austria and also from other Member States are taking place. Otherwise, there will be no general stopover in this respect. On question 19: Austria sees the Dublin II Regulation as a cornerstone of the common European asylum system. For this reason, of course, we support Greece through numerous deployments of experts from EASO and within the framework of various FRONTEX operations. And here, too, a very clear information: In this respect, there will also be an early warning system, a so-called early warning mechanism, in order to recognise the loads in good time and to put forward concrete measures in good time, so that situations such as those in Greece on the Greek-Turkish border do not arise. Question 20: The Master Plan on illegal migration by the Federal Ministry of the Interior: What concrete measures are being taken? – Criminal police surveys are carried out in particular by those who are towed. This is important in order to gain further knowledge and, above all, to be able to explore tractor organisations and have the chance to destroy these networks. Secondly, Low- and analysis-based focus stripping is carried out in the border area. Thirdly, there are, of course, several priority actions in the individual federal states, which are prepared and implemented in permanence. Fourth, of course, we are participating in EU-wide operations to combat illegal migration. And for the fifth, there is a five-point programme between Hungary and Austria. This programme will also be implemented on point and indent. On question 21: The compensatory measures on the international journeys from Italy to Austria were lower-based due to the analysis and investigation results. In addition, of course, the compensatory measures along the main transport routes and aberration routes on the road network continue to be applied on a point-by-point basis. And on the other hand: We are working on a state agreement between Italy and Austria. This too is already at an advanced stage, with us expecting a soon signature. On the question 22: For years, the BMI has been working closely with the neighbouring countries, of course with the states of the Western Balkans – all the measures involved in the fight against illegal migration. Of course, a very special focus is on cooperation between Serbia and Hungary. Here again, we are working on a concrete package of measures, which we will adopt this year and will also be implemented in the near future. On the question 23: Due to the increasing number of asylum applications, Austria has closed strategic alliances with EU Member States with comparable problems in the area of migration since the second half of 2011. That's where foundations were laid. As part of the so-called Roadmap, the action catalogue, it is now necessary to make every effort to ensure that this catalogue of measures is implemented. Yes, and also with regard to cooperation with Turkey, we are on a very good path, particularly with regard to the fight against tow crime. There are also permanent discussions and intensive contacts with the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Question 24, by Mr Frontex: The FRONTEX Regulation, which was amended last year, has an excellent mandate with regard to the activities of FRONTEX. Of course, we support these activities by FRONTEX, both human and technical, and of course we participate in various operations. On question 25: No, we are not familiar with such cases. As regards the state of the procedure of the European Union's asylum pact: Five acts are currently being negotiated. First of all: The ‘Status Directive’ concerns refugees and eligible persons with regard to their status. There was already a decision here in November 2011. Secondly, the reception directive aimed at harmonising reception conditions in each EU Member State. There has already been an agreement, now on 25 and 26. October, within the framework of the EU Council of Ministers of the Interior in Luxembourg. Further: The Dublin Regulation with the aim of making the Dublin system even more effective is currently in negotiations with the European Parliament, which is also on the right track. And last point: The Eurodac Regulation presented in May 2012 with a view to improving the efficiency of Eurodac is also currently being negotiated with the European Parliament. On questions 27 and 28: Yes, Austria naturally welcomes the creation of a common European asylum system, where it is primarily a matter of adjusting standards in the individual EU countries, eliminating so-called pull factors in the future and of eliminating abuse incentives. On question 29: A clear no! Question 30: A total of € 105 million is foreseen for the Federal Government for the care of asylum seekers and for the management of proceedings at the Bundesasylamt in 2012. On the question 31 and thus last question: A very clear no! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e2791	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The first is Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e2819	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! So, Mrs Minister, you can't have the more legitimate criticism of our clubman, who has made nothing else but to present you here with those figures that are to a good extent nothing but answers to parliamentary questions put by my group, as a right-wing question. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have, in part, expressed the actual situation here, by finding – even in an answer to a parliamentary request made by us – that of five asylum seekers, only one is entitled to actually obtain asylum, and four are not entitled to receive asylum. How would you rather see this? Is this more to the point-of-supply state if 80 percent apply for asylum, or is it rather an abuse state? – From our point of view quite clearly and clearly a state of abuse! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And for those four who are going to be negative, it's not like they're going home and saying: Well, I tried it, but it's not done with the asylum application, so I'm going home again!, don't do it, on the contrary: These people are a good thing in the illegality with us in Austria, are unlawfully ceasing, delinquent from the illegality into crime and from crime ultimately into the criminal statistics – which you do not want to admit here, but we will go through them again in detail to show you all of this. Very briefly, I cannot cut a sideline towards the Green Group today, which has chosen asylum on its body and stomach theme: When today the meeting began at 8 p.m., no one was there – you obviously didn't care. Now it's 11 o'clock, you're all here, and we can debate. Perhaps, since you will certainly be serving the social cults today, you will also come up with a bit of a gratifying: Perhaps your first or second speaker comes out and will tell us that Mr Pilz's colleague for political groups will give up his social home, where he can stay at €60 a month and will actually provide for a social case. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's not true at all!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, Mrs. Moser, I know that hurts, you can't hear that. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: 60 has been suppressed!]] You'd rather put that aside somewhere, you don't want to debate it about it. I'll hold on to this. They poke mushroom in the person of your representative, in municipal apartments – and that is anything but decent. Mrs. Federal Minister! I've received a warrant from the police. This is a criminal incident involving commercial theft and theft in the context of a criminal association. ==References== ==References====External links== Mr Dimitri Trigon from Moldova and Mr Korneev Oleg, also from Moldova, are affected and accused. And with these two gentlemen you have secured the following in your backpack: an axe, a flashlight, two string cutters, other tools, a leatherman, a credit card, a knife, gloves and storm hoods with visual slots, so that you can cover your face accordingly. The police keep this in the Minutes: The covered items are clearly – clearly! – for tools of action, such as those used in the conduct of thefts, burglaries and robbery. And now we are making the big quiz question – perhaps she wants to answer Mrs. Minister or you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Green Asylum Group: What was the first thing the two delinquents did? – You have applied for asylum! And the police didn't have a hand. The two were ordered to Traiskirchen, and the asylum procedure could begin. – This is anything but a single action, but that has method! I have the record here in concrete terms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Steinhauser and Mag. Korun.]] Look, Mrs. Korun, we're just going through reporting the last few days, because that's "not true," what we're saying, because that's all "white invention", which is what we're doing best for evil liberals here. [[Abg. Krainer: What about it? What about the story now?]] – Mr Krainer, you are the specialist in your group for business, with your two Taferls, but you can learn a lot about asylum. Listen to me. So I quote from the report: [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Are Chechen refugees on illegal home vacation? Interior Ministry confirms inconsistencies. – Five-time killers as asylum seekers. Killed in the drug family with Kalashnikov. – Georgian intruder mafia: 24 heads, 700 000 € prey. – Two asylum seekers caught as thieves and carcrackers. The Algerians were caught up in fresh deed. – Fiery search for towbus. Radl-Cop put two robbers – it's about asylum seekers. – Murder after Christmas: Process against Tunisian asylum seekers. Asylum seekers in prison. And so on and so on. – Donauinsel-Mord: Asylum seekers in prison. Target-fighting Chechens have been researching – an area that I will come to speak to as well. – Bottle hit on the head: Moroccan attack. Is 40-year-old – yes, I know you don't like to hear from the greens, but I can't save you. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: What is that? Is that the protocol?]] This is nothing but criminal statistics – criminal cases, as they happen in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – Mr Steinhauser, listen to me! Is 40-year-old asylum seekers a female killer? Seven years in Austria. – Gaunern camouflage made easy because the data of asylum seekers do not match with that of the police. . Chechen was completely rusting out because officials exposed his vehicle papers as fake. ....................................................................................................................... First pepper spray could stop Mohamed A. [[Abg. Strache: Now comes safely: Loud individual cases!]] – asylum seekers with false documents, art crime in municipal construction: Asylum seekers exploit 350 images. Iran's hidden treasure of 1.5 million €. I could quote here for a few minutes, just from the criminal cases of the recent past, which have junctified with the topic of asylum here in Austria. Even if you don't like it and the Minister negates it: That is the sad fact, as it stands for Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And please, Mrs. Minister, don't take that as a hetze. Our clubman referred to that, we really have a good tradition and past to provide protection to people who need protection. 1956 of the Hungarian uprising: 200 000 people have come to Austria. The Prague Spring 1968: 160,000 people have come here. Bosnia and the crisis as it manifested itself at the time: 90,000 have come here. And that's where we had the first conflict: 90,000 Bosniers who came here and afterwards, when the war confusion was over and they could have returned home, have decided to do so: No, no, we'd rather stay there! Of these 90 000, 70 000 have said: We're staying here! – What did the then Federal Government say? She said: We offer a return premium so people can go home with some support from the Austrian tax pot! – But they didn’t, they stayed here. Today, the situation is completely different: It is no longer true that people are seeking protection from the wars of the neighboring environment of our state territory, but today people from all the countries and from all continents come to us calling for asylum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] When I visited Traiskirchen, Mrs. Korun, there was something interesting [[Abg. Strache: Korun invites all the people of this world to come!]] I've had a staff member with me, and since Traiskirchen is very well protected – there's a barbed wire, there's police, there's private security, there's cameras – this employee, a bit of a good faith maybe, asked one of the operators there: Yeah, how many are actually busting out of this? And they've been told: No, no, it is not that perhaps asylum seekers leave the camp, they may go out at any time, but the reason why these security measures have been taken is the fact that no one comes in to Traiskirchen, because always again and again abuse cases are documented and, of course, crime continues to rise around these asylum centres and the domestic population is more affected than it is! There is, I believe, a good proposal on this issue on how to improve the situation in two directions. The first: Incentive minimization that thus Austria finally sends a signal so that we are no longer in the visor of international tugs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Protection for those who need it – but if someone is really threatened with death, if someone is honestly persecuted and is seriously persecuted, then such incentives will be no matter if he can get protection here somewhere, then he will not expect all the temptations of our system here, but hope that he will be given protection. One is therefore the reduction of incentives, and the other is the closure of borders. Mrs. Minister, you've made a hard hit, too. There was a very short statement from you that you think it wise to temporarily raise Schengen borders here. The European Union has prohibited you from doing so, has forbidden you more or less, has qualified this measure as not permitted. – I think we should go into a dispute with the European Union. And I also say that we Austrians should perhaps manage this with a referendum or popular survey. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question is: Dear people, are you willing to temporarily buy a little waiting time at the borders as a price for security in the country to rise again, or do you want open borders and thus a more of crime? Mrs Minister, the link between asylum, asylum abuse and crime is obvious. Please go through the numbers of your house, they are more than clear! And what we do today is not hots, but: We represent the Austrians, the rule of law, order and recommend security in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e3005	Mr Pendl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e3026	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! [[Abg. Grosz: “Thank you! ”]] We will certainly be happy to thank ourselves because it has a reason why Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] – Not laughing, but looking at the figures and facts! This is understandable worldwide. And it already has a reason why Vienna has been ranked internationally again in the first place: Not only because Vienna has a wonderful infrastructure and is a beautiful city, but also because Vienna is safe. And with figures and statistics, ladies and gentlemen, you should deal with the way it is quite simply right, not fear-making. Please also say, Mr Vilimsky, that if you want to implement this, we must abolish the rule of law! Tell me how you get out of international obligations! Tell me! We have had many years ago. All the measures in recent years have led to the first instance of multi-annual procedures being carried out on three-month procedures – by the way, the rule of law is first-class in assessing them. We are less than a year in the legal proceedings. I believe that this is, in fact, an excellent achievement, even from the point of view of legal protection, and is in line with the way in which a rule of law simply deals with these issues. I mean, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, in the run-up to criminalising all strangers, criminalising all asylum seekers is not only wrong, but I must say that something is meant to do. [[Abg. New builder: No one said that!]] Because look at the figures as they have developed over the past five years: Both the number of foreigners against which they are identified has fallen sharply, from 31 700 to 14 800, as well as the percentage of asylum seekers dropped from 16.5 percent to 10 percent. This is clearly the statistics you quote, but here you only give the best in a different context. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] Every single crime – and I hope that we agree – is too much, but I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should fight against the principles of international obligations on the one hand, and the rule of law on the other, and simply try to remove humanitarian tasks that we committed ourselves to decades ago. [[Call the FPÖ:Well!]] [[Abg. Grosz: “Thank you! ”]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder:... a police officer!]] Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, who needs help – and I welcome: legitimate help needs – should also have a right to it in our wonderful Austria. But all those who are trying to benefit from this system, and I believe that we have shown this in several laws in recent years, it is said: We'll be able to prevent that! I can well remember – and I have repeated this from this speaker's desk several times – that when we introduced the asylum court, it was only criticized, it was made ridiculous. Today, we know that excellent work is being done there, that we have handled the big backpack of thousands of residues, that in the appeals, even legally judged, everything holds. So these are first-class legal procedures, and I believe that they can be proud of them. And if you always want to make fun of yourself because we thank those who do this work, you'll be ridiculous! I do not want to thank personally and on behalf of my group both the staff of the Bundesasylamt, the asylum court and, above all, Austria – thanks to them – with the colleagues of the Executive Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e3144	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e3165	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In and for myself, I believe that the Federal Minister has not beautified anything, Mr Vilimsky, but has led us into reality, namely how the conditions are actually on the outside. Yes, we are very, very successful in fighting crime. I would really like to thank the Federal Minister and all the police officers for their dedicated work in this area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We are successful in this respect – Mr Pendl has already mentioned this – because we are really among the safest countries in the world, and we have to make this clear to the people outside again and again. It doesn't make sense to scandalize in here, to misrepresent various things, to polemise. [[Abg. Neubauer: These are just keywords! Why don't you talk about facts?]] So I think we are doing a very, very good job in the field of safety. Yes, we have seen a slight increase in crime. But why is that so? – Because we have a 150 percent increase in Internet crime! Please do not make yourself here and say that the people outside are uncertain, the numbers are rising in the event of burglary, theft and car theft. [[Abg. New builder: They are!]] [[Abg. Strache: With the citizenship gifts, of course, this becomes more!]] – That’s just not true! We have reduced by 16 percent in the field of car thefts. It is also gratifying that we have increasing awareness rates. So outside is very, very well worked, and the measures that have been taken – and the Federal Minister has already mentioned them; SOKO East and various other measures – grab. But I also agree with Otto Pendl's statements when he says that every action that is set is one too much. But as has already been said and once again: Let us stick to reality and do not scandalize in any way! And reality is also that the measures put in place have taken place in recent years. Today, we have much lower crime than in 2003, 2004 or 2005 – at times when Austria has formed the Schengen external border, where the German army was at the border. It doesn't make sense to make yourself here and say: We in Austria are walling, pulling up a wall, restoring borders, but I believe it is important that we step up international cooperation, cooperation with neighbouring countries, so that we can meet this kind of crime, no matter what form it may be in. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Temporaryly dense!]] [[Abg. Mayerhofer:... the external borders forbidden!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think we have to say one thing: There is probably no one here who is publicly involved in asylum abuse – but of course there are some measures that have been put in this direction by some people. Yes, we also have increasing numbers in the area of asylum, that is not at all a question, but as long as there are these crisis spots in the world as there are civil wars, there will of course also be refugees in corresponding numbers. And it is not only Austria, which has increasing numbers in this respect, but in most countries of Europe there are increasing numbers of asylum seekers, and we naturally have to deal with them. Mr Vilimsky is not here right now, but I would like to say one thing to him: We are really very, very much trying to ensure that asylum procedures go faster. And I really would have expected the FPÖ to vote in the installation of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, because with this Federal Office the procedures will go much faster in the future, and it would certainly have been useful if there had been a single line here. [[Abg. Strache: You already know how the backpack was processed?]] The backpack? Mr. Strache, you know very well that we have done a substantial reduction in the backpack through the Bundesasyl court. [[Abg. Strache: The applications have been withdrawn and new ones have been submitted! That was a fint! Ask a judge! Ask an asylum judge! They have said withdraw the request and put a new one!]] – Unlike you, I am constantly in contact with the officials in the Federal Asyl Office, that is a fact. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Obviously you don't talk to the asylum judges, otherwise you would know!]] I believe, of course, that we must, in summary, strive to ensure that the asylum procedures take place as soon as possible, so that legal certainty is given to the asylum seekers concerned on the one hand and that we also save ourselves the costs of basic care. Indeed, the money we use should benefit all those in the asylum field who are truly right to seek asylum and where it is justified to invest this money – and, of course, it should be used particularly in the area of integration.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e3316	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e3339	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests on the gallery and in front of the screens! That's clear now, isn't it? – If so many people from the dark circle of FPÖ are involved in things that we have been dealing with for months in the investigation committee – the names Grasser, Rumpold, Gorbach, Reichhold, Meischberger; I am going to leave the others out, otherwise we would have to sit here until the evening – if with Stronach the FPÖ the rabite EU-critique has arrived, if the bank rescue alone the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Carinthia is located in Carinthia, the taxpayers and tax payers – namely, all of us, as we are sitting here, and you, very dear viewers – have cost about €2 billion – the rescue of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, whose headquarters is known to be located in the FPK-led Carinthians; 2 billion € tax money – if in the meantime the half FPK-Land government can almost no longer take place in the Landtagssession, because of the corruption of the order against them – the Lord has to call the Lord’s theme, the Lord’s name has to be called a durland. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: “Dunstkreis”?]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. All no FPÖ-lers!]] [[Call the FPÖ:False speech!]] [[Call the FPÖ:You have the wrong speech!]] [[Abg. New builder: You have a problem with the color teaching!]] [[Call the FPÖ:But not just!]] [[Abg. Street: The Bavaria!]] [[Call the FPÖ: What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Strache: You mean the five ministers and...?]] [[Abg. You mean the five ministers and state secretaries against which it is determined?]] Everything else, honestly, would have surprised me, too, because something else is no longer left to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They get into the moth chest of the nineties and scream again: Foreigners, asylum, scandal! It should be assumed that you should be able to read and properly interpret the answer at least to your own parliamentary requests. A little later. They speak... – Exactly, another FPÖ myth is thrown into the room by the colleague here. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: You interpret it quite differently! Minimum security!]] We'll be there later, too. [[Abg. Stache: Later, later, just not today, all the lazy people say!]] The only thing from the speech of the Clubobmann Strache, to which I can join, is that, when he said, Austria has an old and great asylum tradition. – That’s right, we agree. However, I should also like to remind you that at the beginning of the 1990s, when the reception of refugees from Bosnia was being debated, you and your Group of the Liberals rejected this and once again painted the horror of thousands of asylum seekers on the wall. [[Abg. Strache: This is wrong, absolutely wrong! That's absolutely wrong what you're saying here! Contrary to better knowledge, lie here!]] And you are the last to beautify yourself with the great asylum tradition of Austria, because if today the same people as in the Hungarian uprising, as in the Bosnia-Hercegovina at the time, would be there, or are you the first to shout, speak of abuse and say that these people must not be allowed to come in, these people must be accommodated elsewhere, just not with us. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: But you won't decide!]] [[Call: What about the Kurds]] [[Abg. Strache: We defend the Kurds against the incredible human rights violations!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the figures, ladies and gentlemen, in order to address the realities, the FPÖ is very happy to be juggled with figures: [[Abg. New builder: Your reality!]] In 2011, we had around 14,400 applications from protection seekers in Austria. At the beginning of the nineties we had 115 000 people who came to Austria and found them here during the wars in the former Yugoslavia. In 1956, during the Hungarian crisis, it was more than 170 000 people, who received Austria as refugees, as a protection seeker and provided for Austria. [[Abg. New builder: 1529 do not forget!]] We are talking about 14,400 asylum applications last year – compared to 170 000, 115 000 and so on, and you say the asylum figures are rising worryingly, you are pretending to be large masses of people coming. Austria has already received and provided a lot more people! – Austria has a very good asylum tradition; unfortunately, the liberals are not part of this tradition of asylum in Austria, which is also to be said. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: A clear word to the Kurds, please!]] We currently have about 20 000 open asylum procedures, which means a population of 0.25 percent. What you are trying to scandalize is 0.25% of the Austrian population. This should not be forgotten either when talking about asylum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: There is so little crime in Austria anyway!]] Now I come to your favorite subject, namely crime. I am already on the subject, Mr Commissioner, and I do not ask you to come back to me. That's not good for your blood pressure either. Statistics: If you look at the official statistics of the Ministry of the Interior, if you look at the crime statistics or the 2011 Security Report, you can see that most suspects – because the liberals are so happy to argue with suspects of crime, instead of taking the number of really legitimate criminals, but that is another chapter – that is, in 2011 most of these famous foreign suspects came from you from Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz:... Statistics!]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Are these also asylum seekers?]] These were just 3.7 percent of all suspects in Austria, and this is the largest group: German nationals. [[Abg. Strache: Have all these been asylum seekers?]] [[Abg. Is this the asylum seekers, Mrs. Colleague?]] – I’m coming to it, no excitement! Afterwards, the countries of origin of Serbia, Romania, Turkey and Bosnia-Herzegovina will come; not exactly the largest and most important countries of origin of asylum seekers, I would say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] [[Abg. Street: The asylum seekers from Germany!]] If the liberals had made the effort to look at asylum statistics, they would have found that the same year the top five countries from which asylum seekers came were Afghanistan, the Russian Federation, Pakistan, Somalia and Iraq. - What we're on the subject with. They are all the time pretending that asylum seekers would be flat-rate criminal, as if most of them were suspects of crime, and that is not the case with statistics at best, Mr Strache. [[Abg. You're doing that!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. You're saying that! Statistics say...!]] – Take a look at the statistics! I have just quoted from the 2011 Security Report; I have just quoted from the 2011 asylum report. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Is this the report that...?]] But let us come to the questions made by the Liberals themselves to the Minister for the Interior: There is, for example, a FPÖ request for the first half of 2012 regarding the total number of ads. The Ministry of the Interior has replied that asylum seekers in advertising – not in legal convictions, but in advertising – are in fourth place among foreigners with a total of 3 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What kind of comparison is this?]] No one wants to condone crimes, this is clear to all of us here, but you also have to make the relations: 3 per cent of asylum seekers are the share of suspects. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What are these figures supposed to mean?]] That's not what you're trying to scandalize. [[Abg. Street:... of 13,000 will become 3 percent...!]] [[Abg. New builder: You're making fun of yourself!]] Finally, a real problem in the field of asylum. Ladies and gentlemen! For the rescue of Austrian problem banks we have up to now in the country around 5.5 billion... – For the rescue of Austrian problem banks we have all paid about 5.5 billion euros as taxpayers and taxpayers so far, and 500 unaccompanied children and young people who are without parents in Austria and who have submitted asylum applications, which are supposed to be a problem for us? [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: For Greece we have already paid 2 billion! For Greece!]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: We also paid 2 billion for Greece!]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: They're not a problem!]] [[Abg. Strache: Abuse and crime represent a problem!]] The beaches for months in Traiskirchen, they are not provided, they are not accommodated child-friendly, and therefore one should take care of! [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Exactly!]] And we should also look closely at the statistics, because what you are saying here is untrue, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[Abg. Strache: Now compare the one again...! This is typical for you!]] – No, you have to look at the numbers and you have to deal with the problems as they really exist. A percentage of 0.2 percent of the population, that you can build up as you want, that doesn't give a scandal. [[Abg. Straightness: 0.5 percent of the total population represents 3 percent of the...!]] – Thank you many times for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e3912	Mr Grosz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e3933	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is already a bit embarrassing and also a witness to poverty for the Austrian National Council, when the intellectual light forms of our nation are practically the spectators of ORF 2 and those young people and people of all ages who today follow this parliamentary discussion from the audiences, when these intellectual light designs prove to the general public that we are unable to distinguish between asylum and immigration on the topic of integration. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Another professor!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For years and decades, there have been herb-and-rubber discussions in this house, and no one is able to approach neatly, objectively and firmly to a very burning and important topic. [[Calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] – The excitement is quite beautiful, but it does not help us further, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and of the FPÖ. The ideological hack, the party hack that we have now experienced – by the way preprogrammed, the debate has already slipped out and, by the way, run out if I may say so to you; You see that at the press logger, there is a glaring emptiness – that is, this ideological hack between green and blue and then with a federal government that is inactive in this field, does not help us any further if we do not finally start to differentiate this topic objectively. [[Abg. Strache: Today, it is once again serving the 0,2 percent niches!]] Of course, we have a huge problem in Austria. We have a huge problem in both areas, both asylum and immigration. In the area of immigration, we do not get those we would like, and in the asylum field, we have the situation that from the title “Asyl” developed almost an eternal title of residence together with citizenship. These are two system problems that we have. I can also wait today with parliamentary questions – by the way, Mrs Federal Minister, signed by you, Mag. Johanna Mikl- Leitner – according to which last year 12 464 asylum seekers were in primary care in Austria. - Your numbers! This cost €71.6 million, and of these 12,464 people in basic care, 8,032 were committed. This is not an invention of Gerald Grosz or of the BZÖ party propaganda, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. That's the 3 percent! Of 12 000 8,000 crimes, that is a quota of over 60 percent!]] These are answers to parliamentary questions that bear your signature, Mrs Minister! It is worrying that in Austria we have people who misuse the right to host. Of course, it is worrying if our country – with this long tradition – has a right of hospitality for humanitarian reasons, and this right of hospitality is abused and trampled on and we have a federal government that is inactive and has nothing to show until a few days' PR-gags of an integration state secretary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Secretary of State for Integration has apparently banned speech in this debate today; he should have solved this problem for three years, but has nothing to say about it today. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] I would also have liked to talk to Mr Mitterlehner about immigration, but he is not here, unfortunately. The immigration area is to be read in the “Economic Paper”: “Highly qualified immigrants prefer Switzerland.” Studies by Austrian universities show that of those we want – we want the best of the good, ladies and gentlemen – 49.8% go to Ireland and 41 percent to Canada. No one comes to us by qualified specialists, engineers, for example, in Graz at the AVL List in order to secure the economic location. To Austria, in the area of regulated economic immigration, people who cannot start at least economically in our country, but with the asylum sector, we have a “reck bag” for which we pay a lot, but also there is a risk – I have said this before – that this asylum law, which you, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, are doing, is opening the door to abuse and gate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Two major areas – once again to listen and to think together –: Immigration, we need it. We need excellent IT workers – cliché has always been said, from India, from the Middle East –, engineers, technicians, experts, intellectual capacities from which our country can only benefit. But we don't get them because Austria is an uninteresting country for them. These people ask themselves: What am I doing in Austria? There the economic situation and budget debacle of the Federal Government are so sad; I prefer to go to Ireland, Switzerland or Canada, but not Austria! The second area is the unresolved asylum problem; Although asylum is granted in Austria in advance and has to be granted – ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I give you the right – but unfortunately God is abused. Because if I grant a person asylum here, I assume that it is a temporary residence permit to protect a person from violence and repression in his home country. And I also assume that this person who has received asylum here will return home when the crisis has ended in their original home country and will have some civilized circumstances there, and will build up their country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, of the Greens and of the government parties! Where, today, Croatia or Slovenia, if not genuinely “jugoslavs” who came to Austria, would have received protection and assistance from us, especially in the years 1991 and 1992, have been granted asylum here after the war that took place in the Balkans – and who after this bloody war would have gone home in the courtyard of the European Union and, of course, built up their country! [[Abg. Strache: India is not located in the Middle East, as Gerald Groszbelt believes! India is not in the Middle East, Mr Grosz!]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, travel to Marburg/Maribor today, to Liège/Ljubljana, to Agram/Zagreb, then you will see that the then asylum seekers in their home countries are among the economic elites. Not for nothing, the Styria Group from Styria, where I am from, has more employees in Zagreb than in Graz. That's the situation. We need to be sensitive to this Federal Government, which is inactive in the field of asylum, and also to inform it that asylum can always be a temporary residence permit. However, we should also be sensitive to this Federal Government in order to finally advance Austria economically so that Austria becomes a valuable and attractive location for economic immigration, excellent immigration in the field of research, sport and science. ==References====External links== October can be found a wonderful article in which the employed foreigners in Austria are led. We have 56 736 employees from Turkey, 52 246 from Hungary, 29 757 from Poland, et cetera. Yes Believe You really, ladies and gentlemen, in the schlaraffenland of eternal dreams, that these immigrants, who are employed here in Austria, are mostly the experts we need? In Austria, too, those people who do not reside on the labour market of their own country come, but those workers we need do not come. And this, of course, also leads to social tensions. We also have a huge problem in Graz. Graz as an economic location would need well-qualified immigrants in the specialist sector, but it does not get it, but on the other hand it creates social tensions in social housing on a Mur site, which is becoming a ghetto more and more, rather than a reasonable integration policy. [[Abg. Where is India? In the Middle East?]] What you, ladies and gentlemen, do of the liberals, in today's urgent question, is not right, dear colleague, even if you always praise me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Street: India is not in the Middle East! You should study geography!]] But that doesn't prevent me from telling you the truth. As far as the Federal Government is concerned, it is also wrong, namely: not very careful, with very many keywords and very indifferent. We are aware of the problems. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who is “we”?]] I would like to stress it once again: The problems are there! But the problems are system-immanent in both areas. [[Abg. Where do you belong? Which BZÖ team are you now at: BZÖ-Booker or BZÖ-Stronach? Who is “we”, the 13 or five? Where do you belong?]] Mr. Strache, even if you think I have to get away with something with 1,500 decibels: The volume doesn't make your arguments more correct, Mr. Strache! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Besides, I have a sound system to support. That means you can still scream so loud, I'm gonna be louder than you are. So spare your voice, you still have elections in front of you! To get back to the real topic: I therefore believe that we must take a differentiated approach to this area, that in the field of asylum we must be much more conservative and much stricter than before, but that we must finally open up in the area of immigration, so that Austria becomes a globally attractive location for intellectual, economic, scientific and sporting capacities. [[Abg. Blow: Borders up, that's what Mr. Grosz wants!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4144	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4166	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! After this "fulminant" speech by Mr Grosz, after all television and other spectators have already been welcomed, my very special and special greeting to ex-college Faul in the Styria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Grosz has just told us that India is in the Middle East and the like. It may also have some other perceptive weaknesses, such as HC Strache's roaring appeal to its explanations. And as far as the volume is concerned, Mr Grosz: Have you seen a change in personality lately? - I don't want to judge that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] In short, to the other speakers: Mr Pendl said that Austria was so beautiful and so safe and therefore the asylum seekers would be so happy to come here. And the 125 proposals made by the experts have been drawn from the fact that the asylum seekers should also receive the corresponding free journeys in public transport. – Quite clearly, so that everyone can see the beauty of the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps some will also see the Golden Dachl in Innsbruck and think: That's really great, in Austria there are even golden roof tiles! – Maybe there are even ideas for this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Kößl, it is right that we have voted against this Federal Office for Foreign Affairs – and we have said that it is a first step, but it is not yet properly scrambled, because the material conditions for it are missing. I should therefore like to make a motion for a resolution and, because of its length, only to read the text of the motion itself. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This, Mrs Federal Minister, as a consequence of what you said at the time in the Committee on the Interior. They have meant that all parties, in particular the opposition parties, should contribute to their ideas in order to take this into account – and here are the first ideas of freedom. We are eager to see how this is taken over by you and taken over in the government. I thought of the comments made by my colleagues, and that was quite clear: There is a certain red-green vision weakness in the problems of Austria. In medicine, you also sometimes say color blindness. We have always seen this in red and green: Whenever it comes to red-white-red interests, this color blindness, namely this red-white-red-color blindness, makes itself particularly dramatic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They do not want to see what problems exist in Austria. And unfortunately God will also cover and impoverish you, Mrs. Federal Minister, as I had to answer your question. Mrs Korun has brought a nice statistics, because that of the liberals is all terrible. She meant that Mr Vilimsky's quotes might only come from liberal newspapers. As a rule, these are quotes from daily newspapers, usually from the “Kronen Zeitung” – and I think this is not suspected of being a party organ of the liberals. Put off your red-green colour blindness once and look at Austrian, on red-and-white-red interests! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you, Mrs Korun, have mentioned statistics yourself: 0.25% of asylum seekers are asylum seekers, and 3 percent of total crime statistics are also asylum seekers. [[Abg. Brace: To bravo!]] That means that according to your own statistics, the potential there is twelve times as high! [[Abg. That's great!]] Open your eyes! Open your eyes, see the real problems! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I do not want to spread too much about the opinions of the Greens – that is all clearly at hand anyway – because our contact point of reason as regards the foreign sector is certainly not in the ranks of the Greens. Here you can also read these 125 points again, these wishes to the Christkind who are there as you would like. Hare krishna!, I tell you, you will be happy, but the Austrians make you neither satisfied nor happy! [[Calls for Greens]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New calls to the Greens.]] The problem is not – and this is probably a differentiated view, Mr Grosz – whether 70 asylum seekers per day come to Austria, whether they are 11 000, 12 000 or 14 000 per year, because: After all, the number of inhabitants of a small town per year comes in to the extent of Korneuburg, Bludenz, Eisenstadt, Hall in Tirol, St. Veit, Bruck an der Mur or Vöcklabruck with the tag “Asyl” to Austria. [[Call to the Greens: Why do the Bruckers do this?]] This shows the statistics. In any case: Since 2002, the figures have declined. And why? – Because in the meantime we had some legal changes, in particular as regards the Schengen border. They used to tell us: You poor Austrians are holding Schengen external borders, and those who first set their feet on Austrian soil or in a country that follows the Schengen border must be included! And we were also told: Dear Austrians, you, in your boundless European solidarity must swallow the Krot’! Then came the moment when you said: Now Austria is no longer a Schengen border, now it will cease, now no new asylum seekers are coming, because now the borders are close to us! – But no, now we need European solidarity with those who have come to us – and more: [[Abg. Strache: Now we can send them back! What has never been done!]] Greece as an external border does not deal with the refugee problem. I know other problems that the Greeks obviously do not face – and it cannot be that our money goes to Greece, but the asylum seekers from Greece are also on our hands! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is something you must look forward to, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, whether this has anything to do with your much praised justice in any form whatsoever. We Austrians have always made our contribution – and now it is time to see that differently that the other countries that are at the external border of Schengen take care of this. But what happens? – The Minister for the Interior says that we have already reached agreements with the Federal Government and countries. – Ms. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, the boundaries between Lower Austria and Upper Austria are not particularly uncertain about this. It may be that there are problems between Vienna and Lower Austria that an established ÖVP-ler from Vienna in Lower Austria desires asylum and a strong red one from Lower Austria in Vienna desires asylum. I don't know these individual cases, but we don't care. For us, however, there is a self-confidence when the EU Member States say: We don't care about our borders! – and you, Mrs. Federal Minister, watch this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The best asylum procedure of all today is one that is not at all conducted in Austria! On the questions, whether the rule of law, whether it is temporary or not, whether this works, yes, but do you really want to inform us, Mrs. Innenminister, that all 14 000 new entrants who come to us this year come to us via Schwechat?- Oh, my God! - No, they're coming across the green border. And that's the point now: Our borders need to be secured, and this has to do not only with the use of asylum, but also with crime. Why are the interests of the Austrians – especially in the border area – less worthy of protection than those of the European Football Championship, where has it been said, because of any English football rowdies?- Oh, my God! - It can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to mention the Gänserndorf district, where Diebähle is often not even shown, where there are very clear observations, but where there is no support from border or other EU Member States to operate across the border. And with regard to the costs: Yes, 105 million € are now in the budget, but it all costs much more. For example, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, may I quote from the “Kronen Zeitung”, not from a party newspaper of the Freemans. ==References====External links== October 2011: ‘Moroccona attacks Tunisians: Knife engineering in asylum accommodation.’ And that's what it says: “Weighing a knife technology in the asylum accommodation “Lolita” in Lilienfeld (NÖ) the police were alarmed during the night on Friday. In a harmless fight for cigarettes, a police-known Moroccan suddenly attacked his Tunisian counterparts with a knife. The victim (31) had to be treated with seizure injuries outpatiently, and pepper spray was used against the more angry suspect.” What is the cost of these police missions, what are the hospital costs and the additional costs? This is all part of it – up to the topic of education. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In reality, the objective is to avoid at least € 1 billion for the Austrians through the uncontrolled asylum phenomenon in Austria. And we want to fight that – and nothing else. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] We want to provide those who need protection with the possibility that the necessary resources will be made available for this, but Austria has not deserved to be deceived, excluded and lied to.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4377	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4398	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! “And daily the Murmeltier greets me,” I think again; I have been standing here before and have also quoted it – but the difference is: This movie was a comedy, but it's not one with you. The main actor in this film is always in a time loop. This loop of time also exists inside here, because every time elections arrive, the FPÖ presents its myths and legends again. As far as myths and legends are concerned, however, I must say that I have not actually heard any new from you today, except Mr Rosenkranz, who has put the free movement into play, the free movement for asylum seekers. [[Abg. Strache: Do you know more about the National Council election? When is it? Soon? You know more? That's interesting!]] To intellectual light designs: Mr Grosz, it is indeed positive that you have recognised the need to differentiate between immigration and asylum. That's positive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] But if you totally defamate the basic crux of your statement here in your speech, because you mix everything again, then, I say, are You're not a light figure here, no, you're a little candle, not to say a gravelight of the BZÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I would like to return to the figures once again. If I take the figures now and if the FPÖ says that we have too many asylum applications, I have to stop this, in 2011 it was 14 000, this year we still have about 12 000. How do you actually deal with the figures in the years 2000 to 2006? I think that at the time, somehow, the blue group was in the government. At that time, the number of asylum applications reached 30 000, 39 000 and 32 000. How do you deal with this? How can you justify this throughout the discussion we have? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Schengen external border!]] And if you say here, Mr Rosenkranz, that we have made our contribution, I have to ask what the figures that you yourself have caused at that time are showing? [[Abg. Slight: Schengen external border! Haven't you heard yet?]] I would like to put the memorandum into play once again, which the Federal Government has now concluded with the national leaders. I think it is good, important and right that this memorandum will now simply address the problem we have in Traiskirchen, and there we have the problem at the moment. It simply states once again that the federal states fulfil their quotas. And whether you want to hear it here or not, there are only two federal states in Austria that properly fulfill their quotas, and that is Lower Austria with plus 6.19 percent and Vienna with plus 43.06 percent. The remaining federal states that have an obligation to take over from Traiskirchen are sparse, and the figures go from 4.61 to 22.55 percent, for example the country of Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the aim of the asylum court and ultimately the Federal Office for Foreign Law and Asylum, which we have decided and which will now also take up its service in the course of the administrative reform? – Fast procedures for people to know if they can stay in this country, yes or no, whether they can stay here, yes or no, whether this is possible for legal reasons. The backpack of these 23 000 cases, which we have taken with us, has been dismantled, ladies and gentlemen. I think it can only be the right decision to have quite short procedures within the meaning of the persons concerned. And if, in the context of your question today, and therefore at today's sitting, you also request that we have the same situation as in Germany, I must say that you know very well that Germany has a very different situation with the financial charges and that this works quite differently with us. Traiskirchen is the first basic provider where people should stay for a short time, knowing that there are problems there and that you have to work on it. Only after that do people get into basic care. As far as this basic provision is concerned, I would like to see one of you who says: Yes, that's enough and enough, and then I might be able to afford a Porsche! Such statements are gladly made by the FPÖ. Once again to the asylum seekers: What is the percentage of crimes committed by asylum seekers? – In 2007, the share of crimes committed by asylum seekers was 16.48 percent, 2008 15.96 percent, 2009 16.71 percent. In the first half of 2012, the share is 10.38 percent – this in spite of your statement that the number of crimes committed by asylum seekers is constantly increasing! 10.38 percent! What would be an important point for me is the unaccompanied minor refugees. It would be much better if we were to discuss this, Mr Korun has already pointed out this problem. There must be a regulation as soon as possible. The children must be properly cared for to the child's well-being. They need an obsessive person to accompany them in all things. It is certainly not easy to have arrived somewhere in a foreign country where you speak a foreign language, with stories in mind, that this is the promised country, and that everything is better here, with families in the background who have used their entire money to finance tractors who have brought children here. But then we must ensure that these unaccompanied minor refugees are well cared for, are adequately cared for and are provided with the child's well-being. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not only create this as a nation, as a state of Austria. There are still additional measures to be taken on the part of the EU. Finally, I would like to say: The term “Asyl Abuse” is nothing but a political keyword; it is actually an empty concept of fighting.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4504	Mr Grossruck is the next speaker on the list of speakers. Before I give him the floor, I shall make the communication that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4577	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4598	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The Secretary of State! High house! I do not want to see today's subject by any kind of glasses, neither by a black, red, blue, green or by a different color, but this is a question of humanity. We all have the obligation, as I think, to show such a view. That is why I have to criticize Mr Strache. Not all he said was wrong in my opinion, he said some truth, but the intention was another. It's all right, ladies and gentlemen, populism was to frighten people, to fish in the murky, to win voices like that. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: This is below your level!]] This is the background of today's discussion: but not a matter of fact, please. Because according to Strache and FPÖ, foreigners and foreigners are indebted to everything that happens in Austria. I do not deny, ladies and gentlemen, that asylum seekers are also immigrants below. But if you generalize, you don't live up to this whole problem, as I think. I do not deny that people are afraid that people are afraid of burglaries, that people are afraid of breaking into their homes. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I would ask the Minister of State to make every effort with her team to clarify and prevent such things. But to push everything, ladies and gentlemen, to the evil foreigners would be too cheap. Recently, it was a case where we heard that an Austrian foreigner had to come to Austria to break into houses here. I just wanted to say that so that we could leave the church in the village. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about the human dimension of what asylum seekers are about. You all know the Geneva Refugee Convention. Asylum shall be granted to those foreigners who can prove that they are persecuted by the Geneva Convention on Refugees in their country of origin for reasons of race, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or because of political attitudes and have no national refugeetalternatives. – These are those who have the right to seek asylum and to receive asylum in Austria. Now, however, we know that part of it is doing this on false grounds. [[Abg. New builder: break-in, for example!]] That is why there are these test procedures, which is why these institutions have been set up to determine whether it is right for someone to get asylum, or whether he needs to return to his home country. The problems that are being discussed today are still the old cases, which are partly solved, but these are already ten or 15 years behind. Ladies and gentlemen, each one of you knows them and each of you has already intervened. When I am in front of me – listen to me! – see an Armenian sitting with her three children who came to Austria ten years ago, where the asylum process lasted so long, two children have already been born in Austria, then it is not clear that she must return to where she no longer has a basis. It is therefore necessary to find solutions in such cases. I believe that this is deeply human and it is our obligation to do something for these people too. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] This has nothing to do with crime, it has nothing to do with pushing off, it simply has to do with the fact that, as a rich country of Austria, we also have the obligation, for reasons of solidarity, to international yes, exactly, dear friend. [[Call:Genau]] This is solidarity, and that is humanity, if you do something that is not so good, under certain legal conditions and conditions. This, as I mean, should not be discussed here. The ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, is against abuse, but for humanity. We're against kickers, but for drivers and passengers. The EIA is against exclusion, but for integration. And the ÖVP is against plump populism and for the serious solution of problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4671	Mr Mag. Steinhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4694	Ladies and gentlemen! There they, the approximately 30 FPÖ delegates, sit in their upholstered chairs in the warm Vienna Parliament, all of them have a good merit. [[Abg. New builder: No more than you!]] And all of them are lucky to be able to grow up in peaceful and stable times. And now you have nothing else to do but criminalize those people who are on the run, who do not have the happiness and the privilege you have. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: That's not true!]] I quote your clubman and party leader – listen to your party leader! –: The classic asylum seeker is a run-out model. – So vice versa: Asylum abuse is the rule. Set-up. And: Austria is a country of asylum abuse. – What else is this if it is not a package, ladies and gentlemen? But let's take a closer look at that. Let's see where the refugees come from in Austria. The largest group, which has even said stings correctly, are the refugees from Afghanistan. I would have trusted you to take a look at the paper and know what the situation is like in Afghanistan. I took a look at the 2011 Amnesty Annual Report: armed conflicts and human rights violations are increasing. I say something about the attacks there: seven dead on 28.7.2011, eleven dead on 13.9.2011, nine dead on 17.9.2011, 71 dead on 6.12.2011! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Arrestive arrests, tortures, abuses. – For the FPÖ, all schinasylants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Why are you yelling like this?]] The second largest refugee group, also correctly said, is that of the Russian Federation. The average Austrian now knows that the media are critical of the fact that President Putin does not raise human rights. But that does not make up the main group of refugees. The main group are refugees from the North Caucasus. The Amnesty report also speaks a clear language. The safety situation in the North Caucasus is unstable. Conflicts – and now you listen! – between armed groups and security forces are increasing. Often civilians got into the crossfire and were attacked specifically. Severe human rights violations of the security forces. – For you, all schinasylants! A country in the North Caucasus is Chechnya; there is President Ramsan Kadyrow, someone who is accused of numerous human rights violations. There is an amazing attitude on the part of the FPÖ. The political drawing son of your partyobmann Strache, the Vienna clubman Gudenus, was only recently with Mr. Kadyrow, sat there on his lap, had a bit of a smile with him in front of the Chechen media, then went home and told me that Chechnya is a safe country. And now it comes: He recommends that the Chechen refugees return because Mr. Kadyrow says that he is no longer persecuting many people he may have persecuted. - So that's played naïve. This is a cynicism that judges itself. Your affinity to despots and dictators has long been known. You were with Saddam Hussein, you were with Gaddafi. I find your cross-link to Hezbollah most interesting. Hisbollah is the name of God's literally translated party. This is nothing but a fundamentalist Islamic terrorist organization. – The FPÖ has best contacts. You have an affinity for dictators and despots and seek their closeness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Third largest refugee group: Pakistan. What does the Amnesty report say? – Extrajudicial executions. So not only the death penalty, but extrajudicial executions. Human rights violations by the security forces, disappearances. - Very clear situation, classic reason for escape. Fourth and fifth largest group: Syrians and Iranians. So look into the paper and know what is happening in Syria, what is happening in Iran! This can be demanded even by a liberal who is probably aware of reading and writing. The background of your maneuver is relatively clear: In Carinthia, you have a unique number of corruptions that press on your mind, which is extremely unpleasant. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: We are not per you!]] You have no other content and you have the stronach to which the voters run from you. And then one likes to return to the old, proven topics and hopes that this will work again, which worked earlier. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it's not that simple. But I am still grateful because the theme of the special session is asylum and crime. So far, we have been talking about asylum, and now we are talking about crime. Now we are talking about the blue crime wave that is taking place in this Republic. I'm not talking about the sheep, Dobernigs and Dörflers, they all know that anyway. That's an open procedure, and you'll see what comes out. It is striking that in the last 20 years no party has the number of criminal convictions as high as with the Freedom Party. If you make up the criminal register extracts from your politicians, it reads like the criminal code. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Oh, that's it?]] I'll give you a few examples. All the crime groups have been represented over the last 20 years. There was Ferdinand S. He was then in the second largest city, Graz, city councillor. Condemned for sexual necessity in office. Then there was the local party leader of Eisenstadt-Umgebung – which the Burgenische Partyobmann Hofer certainly knows exactly. Condemned for possession and transfer of child pornography. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: There is no locality of Eisenstadt- Umgebung!]] Then there would be Walter M., then MP to the National Council. Condemned for incitement to tax evasion. Then there would be Peter R., then MP to the National Council. Condemned for commercial fraud and infidelity. I am not yet talking about hatred, not re-acting, all the economic crimes, and so on and so on. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Cohn-Bendit, Gallion figure of the Greens!]] Or current cases – this is particularly exciting –: Mr Klaus L. – listen! –, politician in St. Veit. He was not only a municipal councillor in St. Veit, but also an employee of the County Headquarters. There, he's supposed to have helped people to get a driver's license for money. But even better, it is also suspected of trafficking in women, because it has helped in the red light environment to obtain residence permits. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Suspected!]] - So much on today's subject. So much for the blue wave of crime that this Republic covers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let us conclude with a last case, which is a little symbolic, as it expresses the attitude of the FPÖ: This is this Krems municipal council candidate. You have to imagine, he wanted to order another beer, and the waitress said to him: Time to break! He didn't like that. Now the waitress had the bad luck of being born in Krems, but her parents are Filipinos. Then he insulted her as a nigger bitch and spit her in the face. That is the attitude of the FPÖ and that is the attitude of this special session! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4858	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e4880	Mr Steinhauser! If you take up a variety of criminal cases now, I do not know what this is about at a meeting where we are talking about immigration policy and asylum. I'm not doing that. I would just like to make one comment on Mr Lueger's comments from the SPÖ. I mean, it depends on everyone's taste, which speech he gives; I think she's not here now either. But my taste does not correspond to making two days before All Saints jokes over gravelights. So I don't know, it's not that great. That's just a small comment. But on the subject itself, on crime with regard to asylum: Of course there are these. And, of course, there is also a special meeting on increasing numbers in this area, which is clearly so, especially when politicians constantly ignore it, including the numbers. I am not going to quote a number cemetery here, which has already gone through all the speeches. Only one word on Mrs Korun's statement, which has been made here and said that it is only 3 per cent of the total. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] You said literally – check the Minutes! – it’s only 3 percent of asylum seekers at the time. These are at least 7 600 cases, 7 600 criminals who have been convicted in Austria. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consider, if you say so, another number that is directly related to this, 7 600 criminal asylum seekers, namely, how many affected families there are, whose home or home has been robbed, whose cars have been stolen or who have been threatened with body and life! That's why you're coming up with a much higher number. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That's something I don't let go through, that you always wipe it so aside and say, that's just 3 percent anyway. – That’s a great number! 10 per cent of the committed foreign citizens are asylum seekers. That is why we have an obvious problem here, which is still in the process of growing. Mrs Minister, you are here and today you have said a remarkable sentence. As if there were no such thing, you, Mrs. Minister, said: There is an inadmissible here – an inadmissible! – Mixing – Perhaps you have the grace to listen too. [[Abg. New builder: It doesn't listen anyway!]] – You said – I quote you, Mrs. Minister: There is an inadmissible mix of immigration, asylum and crime – by the opposition parties. Where is there an inadmissible mixture if you, on account of parliamentary questions, because of the right of intervention of Members, deliver these figures to the house?- Oh, my God! And the numbers are on the table, they've been quoted seventeen times today. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you still don't believe it, I'll take something completely up-to-date, namely “migration & integration. to pay. date. indicators 2012’, a report submitted by your Secretary of State, with a preface from him. It is interesting to read this, not to suspects, because it is always said that suspects have not yet been sentenced to justice, but to criminals who have been convicted: “Related to the population of the same nationality over 14 years” – that is, foreigners, in relation to the population, and domestics; this is what the Secretary of State writes – “become scarce” – and now raise ears! – “four times as many foreign nationals are sentenced to justice” as Austrians. [[Call the FPÖ: Madness!]] [[Abg. That's hot!]] Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! We are inadvertently mixing crime and immigration?- Oh, my God! You, Mrs. Minister and Mr. State Secretary, confirm that there is a mixture here – not of us, but at the real level. That's the truth! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That is why we also need to discuss this, and that is why we also need to tell the truth. And that's the truth. Mr Großruck of the ÖVP has made himself here and mentioned an example: For God's sake, the procedure took so long. – Why do asylum procedures continue to last so long? – Because a lawyer machine from the left and all the way to the left repeatedly makes follow-up applications and delays asylum proceedings until someone can finally apply for the right of residence here. And we reject this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Mr Steinhauser, you come out here and count the refugees who are really affected, from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Chechnya. There is every case to be seen, probably really threatened people and probably real people for the most part who have a right to asylum. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is now a third country regime, a Dublin rule. And if these cases that you have listed did not all come directly from your home country to Austria by plane, then no one under this agreement has a residence permit in Austria, but would have to be returned to the third country. That's the truth! [[New applause at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] So do you want to tell us that you want to abolish the third country regime? Is that what you want? Then say that! [[Abg. Strache: They've done away with them anyway! This federal government is circumventing the third country regime!]] But as long as these are available, no one who comes to Austria via a secure third country – and Austria is surrounded by safe third countries – has the right to seek asylum here and also to get one. This is the legal situation you need to accept. However, I would also like to focus very briefly on the Secretary of State and the general issue of immigration, on the proposals he has made for citizenship, on the one hand, on the early granting of citizenship after six years, and on the other, on the other, on the other hand, on increasing awareness of citizenship in the ten-year term. [[Abg. New builder: He doesn't listen either!]] I think this is very interesting, I would like to say something positive. I consider the proposals of the Secretary of State worthy of discussion, interesting and contentious, for one reason: because he has actually done nothing but adopt our model, namely the BZÖ Ausländer-Check-model, which we presented a year and a half ago, 1 : 1. [[Abg. Scheibner: He doesn't listen!]] What's in there? – The following criteria must be met for proper integration: Language levels, training measures, careers, continuing work, law enforcement, promotion of schooling, positive attitudes to integration and participation in public life, for example in club life. That's exactly the points you've written in there. That's why this is very interesting for us. We therefore do not say no from the outset to those criteria which you have put on the table. We have only moderate confidence, Mr State Secretary – if you see what you have done for a discussion, what resistance is coming – that you can actually implement these regulations, these conditions, because one cannot do with us: To increase citizenship to the discount price, that is not to do with the BZÖ, Mr State Secretary! We're not there. That's where the criteria have to be met. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll be right there. To shoot down the bird in the discussion, which is really interesting now, the colleague has herbs. He does this at regular intervals, so every two months he gives something of himself, which is really inconceivable – and now again. In response to the idea of the Secretary of State and ultimately also to our idea that immigrants must learn German at a certain level – he calls it “matura level” – before they should at all benefit from citizenship – that is the idea – said Mr Herba on the radio yesterday – quote: This is not quite fair because the Austrian population also does not reach this level. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: He's got the Otto Pendlmement!]] Congratulations! I congratulate you, Mr Herbs, and the SPÖ. You condone, you defame the entire Austrian population here, that it cannot be German at this level. That's terrible! Enjoy this, Mr. Herb. That's terrible! I really have to tell you that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If this is the answer and your line of argument in immigration policy, then good night, SPÖ, and then good night, immigration policy! We say quite clearly that it must be distinguished and differentiated between those foreigners who come to us, who are integrating themselves, who are living here, who have a job that has a merit, the Germans who learn the language, who ultimately contribute to integration, and those who do not want to integrate all of this, who do not want to take advantage of the social system or even say goodbye to crime. That's what we want and need to differentiate, also on 20th. Anniversary of the popular desire “Austria first” in February 2013, which was launched 20 years ago. At that time, the basic principle was “German before moving in”, an integration was only possible if someone wants to be integrated. And that's a basic sentence that we haven't given up until today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5061	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5082	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My esteemed State Secretary! Mr Steinhauser, if you are here criminalizing the FPÖ standard and calling us literally “blue crime wave”, then this is not only to be rejected sharply, but also one – as I now risk a call for order – of specializing in acidity! [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: No! Individual cases!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Grossruck, if you accuse the FPÖ and our clubman of being afraid of the population, then that is nothing but what you have previously condemned, namely populism of the ÖVP from the deepest ÖVP drawer. [[Abg. Großruck: What did I say?]] I would also like to reject this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pendl! Mr Kößl! – Mr Kößl is not here now. - Yeah, I'm already with you. Our executive is doing good and excellent work, including in the field of foreign law, but I am already looking forward to how our executive will respond to the announcement we have heard today in the reply of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that, while it must take note that there will be a zero wage round for her, at least €105 million will be spent on asylum. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: Despite this federal government!]] I think that's worth mentioning. And our executive officers will probably be able to make their way to it. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] But back to the real topic. In reply to Question 8, Mrs Bundesminister, you referred to this summit as the outflow of these problem situations that occurred in Traiskirchen as a “sustainable measure”. I have some doubts about that. For almost ten years now, we have had a similar wave of this permanent problem that Traiskirchen is constantly confronted with overburdening. Every time there are peaks. Each time a solution, a bad solution, is tried, one must say, going to find that the asylum seekers who are already too many here are divided into the different federal states, but one does not tackle the problem at the root, namely that one finally stops this unhindered asylum tourism. That's where you're called, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is not only the topic of asylum, to which much has already been said today, that the population is burning under the nails on a sustainable basis, it is also the entire development of crime in relation to the problems of foreigners. If you talk to the population today, you usually get three problem areas in focus. First: There are intrusive, organized bedding – mostly well recognizable for the layman – on the most lively and popular streets and squares. There are – second – non-acting drug dealers who obviously do not have any inhibitions to deal with their dubious and criminal business completely indiscriminately also in public, mostly in subways and high-speed trains. And there are – third – three thirds of those who practice their criminal craft even on the bright day. And all three groups have one thing: Looks like you're not from here. They are apparently strangers who, using the Austrian structures and the good Austrian social system, can not only afford to take advantage of social benefits but can also ensure that they are not relocated as quickly as possible. And that is why, I think, it is time for a new policy, for a new approach to this important and, in the future, ever-increasing problem. I therefore say no to asylum abuse and advocate the reintroduction of temporary border controls, the actual implementation of the Dublin II agreement and the rigid deportation of criminalized foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5182	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5203	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe a short replica to the colleague Westenthaler. As far as German at Matura level is concerned, I often wonder who is actually mastering German at Matura level, colleague Westenthal. When I read stenographic protocols by BZÖ speakers, I doubt the Matura level in German. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: Deep level!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have you taken away! Word and writing by Otto Pendl!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Or readings from the last series!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On today's urgent question a clear statement: Mr Klubobmann, the title of "crime and asylum abuse" is not only misunderstanding, but, in my view, unbearable, because – and I say that quite clearly – crime is equated with asylum seekers in this context. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: With asylum abuse!]] And that is with all reticence to reject! [[Abg. New builder: for the protocol: no applause of the SPÖ!]] The parliamentary questions raised by Mr Vilimsky have given rise to a lot: They have clearly shown that among the aliens, asylum seekers are not the majority of identified suspects, but are quite different groups. It is the tourists who come to Austria from Germany, Italy and from other countries, for example, who are doing burglary thefts. These are those who arrive in Serbia or Montenegro as tourists and attack jewelry shops in Austria, for example. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: “Tourists from Germany”?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to clarify two things: The problems that we actually have in the field of crime are not the asylum seekers, but the beautifully divided groups, namely the people without employment and the tourists. [[Abg. Street: 50 percent of the perpetrators!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, the connection between crime and Schengen borders is coming back again and again. You said you should lift the Schengen border again. [[Abg. Blow: Temporary, I said! Listen!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache and the Freedom Party have already repeatedly called for the removal of the Schengen border in this House. [[Abg. Strache: German at Matura level: temporary!]] In this context, I think you have a number of questions from Mr Vilimsky's reply. [[Abg. Strache: We made it temporarily at the European Championship!]] You know very well, Mr. Klubobmann, where most of the suspects found come from, namely from Germany. [[Call the FPÖ:Go!]] Do you want to lift the Schengen border with Germany? Honestly: Do you really want to lift the Schengen border with Germany again? According to these figures, most of the suspects found come from Germany! [[Abg. Strache: I do not want criminals with us in Austria as opposed to you! Are you talking about the Turkish-born German citizens?]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One should say clearly at this point – and no one has said this today –: That many asylum seekers are dragged here by criminal tugs, people who come to us because they are looking for protection, people who are dragged to Austria are exploited, raped and then kept dependent. [[Abg. Street: Through the safe Greece, through the secure Czech Republic!]] [[Abg. New builder: (a “standard” article in height) Put by socialists into containers!]] You have not yet said anything about this tow, Mr Klubobmann Strache. [[Abg. Strache: You protect the Tow Unbeing!]] High house! We should take a closer look at the problem. We have a problem here with the Austrian judicial system, which I would like to say quite clearly. I have been following analyses of tow and judicial penalties since 2004. There were 111 criminal charges in 2011 according to § 217 criminal code, cross-border prostitution. Do you know how many convictions there have been? – 14 convictions and eight according to the criminal statistics. There have been 45 criminal charges according to § 104a, trafficking in human beings. There were two convictions or a conviction according to the criminal statistics. [[Abg. That's sad! That's really sad!]] It looks even worse at § 104, Slavery: There were only two convictions. [[Abg. That's sad!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you continue to follow these figures, you ask yourself: Why is it that tugs, who have brought asylum seekers to Austria, only have to expect partial condemnation? Why is it that Austrian justice imposes only a fine on criminal tugs? [[Abg. Neubauer: Because there is no condemnation!]] [[Abg. Street: If socialists, you don't need to wonder! That's a joke!]] We should talk about criminal tugs in this House and not believe the accusations of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Neubauer: Shame! You lock them up in containers, the asylum seekers!]] We face major challenges. We must provide protection for people who need protection, and at the same time we must ensure that criminal tractors are properly persecuted and condemned by the justice system.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5538	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5560	Mr President. Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it doesn't matter whether asylum seekers, guests or local criminal acts are carried out: Crime must be fought with all the sharpness! And that this does our state and our Interior Minister with her team, that's obvious. It is good that we are discussing crime and asylum abuse today. It is important to take time for this, because I believe that one of the highest goods in a state is security. Austria is a safe country internationally. This is evidenced by surveys among the tourists why they are coming to Austria. One of the main arguments is security. Every one of us who travels the world does not find hotels where security forces do not go around at night – in Austria, there is no such thing as thank God! This must be preserved. But this is also important for an economic location, because the economy can only be settled where there is a certain degree of security, and this security is guaranteed in Austria, although one has to say that crime is still too high. You have to do everything you can to continue to lower them. A lot has been done in recent years. The figures on asylum applications have already been mentioned: In 2002 it was almost 40 000, from 2006 onwards they commuted between 13 000, 14 000, 11 000 and now 15 000. Unfortunately, today the number of asylum applications has risen again by 21 percent. It's not too secret. But we also know why. We know the unrest in the various states, we know why the asylum seekers come from there to us. Maybe a comparison at this point: The highly praised secure Switzerland with its strong, strict laws has recorded an increase of 45 percent, we one of only 21 percent. The duration of the procedure for asylum applications has been reduced; we are now under three months. There are even shortened procedures for asylum seekers from safe states to be dealt with in about 13 days. And, as the Minister for the Interior has already said, four out of five applications are rejected and dealt with immediately. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: What does that mean?]] [[Abg. Strache: That is, out of five applicants are four abusers! This is an interesting confirmation!]] We know the general crime statistics. We know that in the event of a break-in in homes and homes, crime has become less, we know that the number of thefts of cars has fallen, yet we should not rest on the laurels, but do everything to combat – as has been said – the crime. Mrs. Federal Minister, you and your entire team are on the right track. I think it is also in the sense of the entire House, it is – whether extremely debated or less extreme – in our every sense to maintain Austria as a stable and safe country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5609	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5641	Mr President. Dear Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The child's well-being should be in the highest position and the highest premise of any legislation. It must be global-Austrian concern to actually implement children's rights in Austria, but that is not so far in all areas, namely legislation, politics, any body. Children and young people have the right to ban discrimination. Article 2 of the UN Convention on Children's Rights clearly states that the States of the Contracting States guarantee the rights of each child “without discrimination, regardless of race, skin color, gender, language, religion, political or other belief, national, ethnic or social origin, wealth, disability, birth or other status of the child, parents or their guardians”. This child law convention entered into force this year exactly 20 years ago. In other words, 2012 is actually a year to celebrate and say that children's rights are also a concern in Austria, and the governments and states of the world are concerned. But, unfortunately, the situation is quite different. There is a great need for action on the part of children. It has not been so in vain that in recent times the The aid organizations, from the Caritas to the Volkshilfe to the Kinderschutzzentrum, were invoking: If the children are protected, don't leave them alone and don't push them off from one place to another, don't move them from the federal states to Traiskirchen! Article 20 of the Convention on Children's Rights clearly states: ‘A child who is temporarily or permanently released from his family environment () is entitled to the special protection and assistance of the State.’ Further: Contracting States shall ensure that there is a form of care, including accommodation in an appropriate childcare facility. It must be an all-Austrian concern to actually implement children's rights and to guarantee all children's rights in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This implementation of children's rights is neither a federalist problem nor a party-political problem, not at all – it is an all-Austrian problem and therefore also an all-Austrian concern! It is not enough for ÖVP and SPÖ to make themselves here and say: Everything will be all right, everything will be done, the so-called overfill in Traiskirchen will be minimized!, and the children will then come into any container in any federal states, to the Pampa, away from all infrastructure, away from all social contacts, away from all youth centres, away from all schools. You must never forget that children, unaccompanied minor refugees in a foreign country, are being pushed from one place to another, that the children have probably experienced a trauma and therefore need support. There is also little to be done if colleagues from the SPÖ are producing and saying: It takes certain measures, it really needs support, and it probably also needs an increase in the daily rate!, et cetera, if nothing happens then. It is simply too little to give empty words here, and at the same time to know the situation for years, actually to know for decades. At that time, when children's rights came in the Austrian federal constitution, it was pointed out that the reservation in children's rights in the Austrian federal constitution will not do much for children's rights in Austria, for the implementation, for the preservation of children's rights of all children in Austria. The last one is: The Constitutional Spokesman of the Greens, Daniela Musiol, my colleague and I have now started legal examinations of how children's rights can actually be implemented in Austria, how the government can be kept firm and what steps are being taken here next. I think there is still some need for discussion and probably also some negotiation about what will happen with children's rights in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5705	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5727	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is sad that, like in the case of EU discussions, everyone who is opposed to, above all, some left-wing parties and whose opinion is in the field or who practices criticism is immediately quoted as “hetzer”. If you criticise the EU, you are an “anti-European”. I believe that we should, above all, take account of the background to the fact that in the meantime, too, the Immigration policy has proved to be completely wrong many of what some utopists have presented to us over the last 20 years, finally returning to a more objective and objective discussion and not always evading everyone who has a different opinion in this area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are right to say that immigration and asylum are not to be mixed, then please do not do so, especially you of the Greens! When it comes to asylum, the criteria must be met, then it is about who had to leave his country, because he was politically, religiously or racially persecuted, and not about who wanted to leave his country, because it keeps him economically better elsewhere. Finally, keep this apart! When it comes to asylum, the Mrs Minister has said very clearly and clearly, the laws must be complied with, and then, Mrs Bundesminister, there is really no difficulty in the whole matter. Asylum exists where there are asylum grounds, and where they do not exist, it is very quick to make clear to the person concerned that he cannot be present under this title in Austria. It's really a very simple thing! And if we come to it, you have said today that you have a 20 percent recognition rate, then you don't need to be horrified or somehow agitated, but it's a fact that the majority of asylum seekers have no asylum grounds and simply have to leave the country, so sad for the individual. Ladies and gentlemen, if one then criticizes – surprisingly so did Mr Großruck of the ÖVP – that the asylum seekers are so well integrated and should remain there because of the long procedures: Why have they stayed here for so long? That is precisely because – it has already been said – there is an Armada of experts and NGOs who, supported by taxpayers, advise these people, and I believe that there is a poor advice on how, even if they know that there are no grounds for asylum, they can extend the procedure accordingly. This is just as bad and just like anyone who wants to be afraid of it. Take note of this at last! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The question with the safe third country. Of course, it could be much clearer and much clearer to implement this rule, as one can only travel to Austria via a safe third country and also take the corresponding measures. It is also about the prevention of signaling, especially the tow straps: To drag to Austria is pointless, because there are clear criteria here, and they are also enforced. And if it really is said today, yes, these are criminals, then we do not want to assist them yet by signaling that in Austria it is very nice to delay the procedures. It is now also being spoken of by the young people. Of course, young asylum seekers need to be treated properly here, have a care, a school education, as far as it is possible, but you also have to signal – and I heard something completely wrong yesterday from an NGO representative – even if a youth came to Austria alone, he does not have the opportunity to follow the family sometime later. Because this is the next rumor that is already being spread: If you send your children before – that is in fact inhuman to send your own children once – then you have the opportunity to follow through on the family estate! These are also things that you have to express openly, because this creates more problems than you can solve. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: One should also be careful to avoid the problems, and that would be a matter of foreign policy, that would be a matter for the European Union. Where do the flows of refugees come from? – Mostly from the crisis regions, where, among other things, Western states, from the United States, but also from European states, have started to light up – starting from Iraq via Afghanistan et cetera – and there they are running diletantic security policies, thus creating more uncertainty, more injustice and more problems that will then lead the population to emigrate to Europe. It would be an interesting thing to discuss this problem at the root. I know you can't make this a great ideology, because you can't finance large organizations like the NGOs, but maybe this would be the most meaningful thing in the interest of those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5808	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5829	Mr President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed the issue in great detail, and I also think that in our ranks there is no one who does not want to reject and fight asylum abuse and crime in relation to asylum seekers. There is also an objective discussion on this subject, Mr Scheibner, with us at any time, and no one who considers these things critical will immediately be upset as a hetzer. It may be that this does not apply to everyone, but there are also a lot of people who see it that way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I must also point out how not to do asylum policy in this context, and unfortunately this is happening once again to our beautiful home country of Carinthia. All those who know me know that I am the last one who wants to say something negative about our homeland, but states that exist there simply need to be shown. As you all know, this topic has aroused a great deal of attention in the whole of Carinthia and beyond in Austria and beyond, the so-called "special institution" for suspected asylum seekers on our beautiful Carinthian Saualm, which by the way is particularly suitable for hiking and swimming, but unfortunately because of this thing in miscredit, has become a proper miscredit. [[Abg. Strache: You prefer it at schools, at kindergartens!]] This cannot be the case, Mr President, and this also applies primarily to your representatives in Carinthia of the FPK, that people who have not been shown a deed can only be locked away from the population on a presumption that they are in remote mountain areas in a home that still has miserable conditions. [[Abg. New builder: We prefer to lock them in containers!]] There were also complaints about accommodation possibilities and so on, and in the final effect this special institution was then closed to press the media, to pressure of the population and, of course, also due to advertisements. Ads have been presented in the form that proper medical treatment was not guaranteed and that violations were also detected by care and security personnel. I believe that asylum policy cannot be pursued, and it was really a good thing that this home had to be closed again. But a question arises for me in this respect, Mrs. Federal Minister. In the urgent question, the question is 14: “Will there be a special accommodation for asylum seekers in the future?” and you replied with a clear no. That's what I think, but I'm asking you: What about our Carinthian refugee officers, who have come to understand that there should be a follow-up to this special institution? What are you doing? Will you approve of it or will it be prevented? I hope that this is really clarified and that our Carinthian homeland comes out of the negative headlines again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5879	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5901	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Today, at this special meeting requested by the FPÖ, we are once again dealing with the subject of asylum. And if you listen to this debate, you have to assume that nervousness in the FPÖ ranks must be quite large when the alleged all-healing drug is again used for asylum and migration. However, it is probably due to the fact that she was taken away from the Stronach Troupe by the Canadian Corner, the previous favorite theme, the Euro exit and the Euro hysteria, and therefore, I believe, the topic of foreigners and asylum needs to come back. Only because we hold a special meeting here today does this not mean that there is an acute need for action in the area of asylum. It is true that a lot of attention has already been paid to this issue in the past and that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior have taken a very close look at this issue, and above all the Federal Government and also we in Parliament have already taken very consistent action here in recent times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is already true that the number of asylum seekers is rising again, but it is not dramatic and is related to a global development that is not home-made, but where we are third-party. But it is that way – and I would like to say this again – that the absolute number of asylum seekers is not higher than on average over the last seven to eight years and far below the values of 2005 and the years before. In particular, four out of five asylum applications have been rejected, and this has also been said. The reason why we currently have an overburden in Traiskirchen is not related to the absolute number of asylum seekers, but actually to the fact that, especially in 2010, the numbers of asylum seekers have fallen significantly – by the way, you have not said anything at that time – and are now on the rise again, and it depends on the fact that countries cannot always maintain their quarters and have reduced their number and are only now being called upon to build up these quarters. At the initiative of the Federal Minister, a good solution was reached within the framework of a Federal-Land Summit, which will help to master this situation. Above all, the issue of unaccompanied minor refugees will also be solved – this has already been addressed today. I would like to hold on once again – my colleagues have already done so –: Last year, with the Foreign Rights Change Package and the measures provided for in it, we achieved a significant reduction in procedures to 2.9 months. With the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, the procedures become even clearer, even more transparent, even faster. They have all criticized this, not contributed because you are actually not interested in material solutions. They also try again and again – and this has been clearly stated today – to establish a link between the supposedly rising rate of crime – which is absolutely reprehensible by means of the figures – and the asylum system. It is true that car crime is declining and, above all, burglary crime is falling significantly. They repeatedly take out individual asylum seekers as criminals and polish with them. In reality, however, there is no major link here. And I would also like to say that the Minister for the Interior has said clearly: Where someone is going to be punished, there is zero tolerance! In summary, you can say: Austria fulfils its international obligations. Those who have asylum grounds will be taken up and cared for here in a decent manner. Asylum abuse is prevented and prevented. And those who have no asylum grounds must leave the country as soon as possible and be taken out of the country. The asylum issue is basically a difficult one, but one has the situation under control, especially our Federal Minister and the executive, for which I express my express thanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5962	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e5983	Mr President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! Then I will take a short look so that I can deliver the essential message in two minutes. Crime from the point of view of statistics is also possible, but there is also the subjective feeling of the population, and this is diametrically opposed to what our Minister of the Interior and the speakers of the two government parties give of themselves here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let me tell you a few words: Copper theft. Everyone who drives us on the Pressburger Bahn knows that. You're never sure you don't have to get out again because the railway has to stop and it's called the bus. What is the answer of this Federal Government? – It is now recommended to use aluminium. This is probably less stolen than copper. I have experienced in my home community, in Bad Deutsch-Altenburg, series of burglaries. And we have now reached some sad climax with dozens of injured people due to several robberies on the cemetery. Once a widow comes to one with tears in his eyes and says: Ernest, please, do something, the grave of my late husband has been looted for the second time!, then it has a very different quality which shows itself when you come directly into the conversation with those affected. It has already spread so much in my home community of unhappiness that there has been a civil assembly for this reason, and it has also been addressed in writing to the Federal Chancellor's Office. The answer was: Federal Chancellor Faymann always takes the concerns of citizens very seriously, and he appreciates it when you turn directly to him. And what else does he write to those affected? And that's the problem: Anyone who shows an abuse in this area is immediately qualified in a certain direction. He goes on to say: Your letter will reveal your scepticism towards people with migration backgrounds for us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I know this lady personally. She's superior to all suspicions. Such a reaction of a Federal Chancellor is, please, unbearable! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then there was an uprising, and they turned to the media. And here, now that the media accept this issue, the letter of apology has already come from the Federal Chancellery: We express our regret over the rightly perceived annoyance. A mistake happened to us in the editing of the letter. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government is constantly passing mistakes if it wants to give answers to too high crime! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] I can only call you to the end: Dear Minister of the Interior! The taxpayers have a right to security. Do not call yourself a Minister of Security, but take care of security in this Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e6056	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e6077	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! High house! The figures speak a clear language: At the end of September, 12 510 asylum applications had to be registered. Even more terrifying are the figures in the area of crime: about 8,000. And these crimes are reportedly due to asylum seekers. But we all know that the dark figure is much higher. So much for the safety of Austrians in this country. And if you still have to hear that more and more people are coming to Austria, i.e. through tow or through human trafficking, then you can only support the demand for a suspension of visa freedom, and we are doing so. If Mrs Korun then calls for minimum security for asylum seekers, the question must already be asked, Mrs Colleague: Have you also considered the government debt of around 240 billion, without any liability? Have you also considered that in Austria we have about 1.5 million Austrians, including children, who live below the poverty line? Did you also consider that pensioners in this country have to expect an increase of 1.8 percent, which is far below the inflation threshold? As you can see, Mrs Colleague, you want to make Austria a self-service shop. [[Congratulations of Mr Hagen, Ing. Lugar, Markowitz and Tadler.]] Mrs Korun, I would advise you: Just go to Germany and talk to Minister of the Interior Hans-Peter Friedrich about an increase in minimum security! The fact is that Germany has set the basic refugee supply far higher than we are and that Germany has become a magnet for refugees, so to speak. Austria must certainly not be! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that according to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, it is precisely regulated who is to be considered a refugee. And that these people need to be helped is quite clear, and that is our humanitarian duty too. Austria certainly has an open hand for help seekers, but we must say quite honestly: If this open hand is used for help, our great heart for help, then there must be very clear and strict rules. In cases of hardship the human solution is certainly in the foreground, but if generally the rules are not complied with if our humanity is with There's no excuse from our point of view. Finally, I would like to say: Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We support you in your request for a suspension of visa freedom. But we do not want asylum for material or economic reasons. We want a fair and, above all, rapid process of asylum, not multiple applications and, above all, temporary work permits for asylum seekers, in line with the labour market, and no children in charge. And last but not least: Asylums must also comply with our laws. For this we stand, and for that the team Austria – ah, the team Stronach for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e6129	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e6150	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! I say it quite clearly: Yes to asylum for persecuted people within the meaning of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, which defines the grounds of escape, namely fear of persecution due to race, religion, nationality, political attitude or belonging to a social group. But to pure economic refugees or criminals a very clear no. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, explain to me how things can happen if asylum is properly regulated here in the State! – A few days ago, in a Vorarlberg daily newspaper, two children were transferred from Traiskirchen to Vorarlberg to the SOS Children’s Village at 2:00 a.m. on the night, which was eight years old, the other ten years old. Both asylum seekers. One Bub was sent on his way by his parents, he explained, and was on his way for a whole year until he arrived in Austria. It has already been said today that parents are posing their children in order to be able to look after them later. The family of this boy still lives in Afghanistan. The other Bub doesn't talk about where he came from, how long he was on the road. I think that's very hard. These children are being sent here to come to Austria under asylum grounds. I think this has to be fought very strongly. A similar report came to the ORF last night in the TV show “Thema”, where a Bub reported that his father had paid $8,000 to tugs so that his bub would be brought to Europe. His family would still live there, and he said he suffered very much. Ladies and gentlemen! These are states that do not address them, and there is already a need to consider whether something is done wrong here in Austria in the asylum sector, because: Why are these people coming to Austria, why are they looking for their salvation here? And: Who tells them that they're much better off leaving the family? I think it's not just Europe-wide, but the world-wide struggle, that's what it's all about. [[Abg. Grosz: What about the political towbands?]] I have already said this in the migration committee of the Council of Europe a long time ago that it is necessary to take steps here. [[Abg. Grosz: What about the political towbands?]] Even if Mr. Grosz always plays in between, you're not heard! I would like to draw attention to the fact that Frontex has crazy problems at work. We know the example at the Greek-Turkish border, where the Frontex in principle has almost nothing to do, because everything just goes through. And that can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned here that we are sending a lot of money from Europe to Greece, including Frontex, and that is why we should also take appropriate measures to prevent this flow of refugees. We have just had the debate on development aid. But I believe that these countries that are supported can also be taken to the kandare and can say to them: Development aid will be given to you if you take measures to combat the towing in your country. The report by a German television magazine some time ago, in which black African asylum seekers were interviewed, why they want Europe and want to seek asylum from us, has opened my eyes to me. A black African has said quite clearly that he is not really politically persecuted, but he has not seen an economic opportunity for himself. He then sold everything, and now he's been picked up and he's supposed to be pushed back. He says he'll leave immediately because there's no perspective for him at home. When he comes back to his country and to his village, it is considered a failure. He doesn't have a chance to go back. Ladies and gentlemen, the towing activity should be combated locally, and there you are called on to take action here, Mrs Minister, and the Foreign Minister. The Foreign Minister would be required in the context of development aid, as he could do a lot. It would be necessary to put in place effective measures which would also have the effect of doing so. It does nothing for us if I invest a lot of money and in reality nothing changes there. But I would also like to address the case of the Chechens. I told you, Mrs Innenminister, a year ago in the Committee on the Interior that there is already a real tourism here: People who have applied for asylum with us go to Chechnya on vacation and then come back to us. This is asylum abuse, these people have lost nothing here! Now a few small examples of the practice that the people's souls bring to the boil. They all know the case – he went through the media a few days ago – of the Czech asylum seekers Danial M., who are based in Vorarlberg. A burglar who has his family here, who should have been postponed now, but who refused to enter the plane. This deportation was stopped, he is now sitting in Vienna in the police station. Mrs. Innenminister, you told the plenary earlier that there is no excuse in the case of criminals. Stop Now You this deportation, now it is still in Austria and is on the bag for the Austrian taxpayer. That's the wrong way. If you're announcing something, you're going to go through it, too, no excuse! Another case of Bregenz: An asylum seekers' family, including from Chechnya – we have a lot of Chechens – who have become sedentary there, has been paid by the district headquarters for the facility for the apartment, including a new kitchen block of 3 000 €. This family is then moved to a neighboring community after half a year. And now it comes: The governments have offered this kitchen block in the newspaper, sold it privately and then went to the county headquarters, where they have received a check for the new apartment, a kika voucher, so that they can buy a new kitchen there again. Ladies and gentlemen, this is asylum abuse – and I don't wonder if an executive complains to me. I don't read the letter now, Mrs. Minister, I'll give you the letter once, without the name being above, even though the Executive Officer stands for it. He says I stand by and the letter can be distributed at any time. In this case, it is about St. Pölten. He is extremely upset about the conditions in St. Pölten with asylum seekers, which are being abused by Austrian taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, that can't be it! And now to the end: The colleague Kaufmann-Bruckberger has already mentioned: We from... – We have 10 minutes of speech! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How is the speaking time?]] I've been set to 5 minutes, but I have the right to talk for 10 minutes. [[Congratulations of Deputies Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Ing. Lugar, Markowitz and Tadler.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Just keep going! Team Stronach speaks!]] We from the Stronach team are clear for a fair asylum system, but: No asylum for economic refugees, fair and rapid asylum procedures, only a one-time possibility to apply, annual verification of the situation in the home country or in the country of origin, immediate deportation of the reason for the escape, temporary employment permit for asylum seekers, no children insubstantial and immediate withdrawal of asylum status in the event of a breach of law. Ladies and gentlemen, if all of this were implemented, we would not have any such discussions here, I believe, then we would have no problems. We support all those who need protection and help, but we reject the abuse of this aid, because we need to improve together for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e6235	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. 1 minute is available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e6256	Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: In just five years 40 000 suspect asylum seekers found do not seem to be a problem for the rule of the red, the black and the green groups. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 0.5 percent of asylum seekers, as measured by the Austrian population as a whole, commit 3 percent of all crimes, saying: six times more than Austrians. – No problem and negligible according to Korun. Four times higher crime and crime among non-Austrian citizens, say: 73,000 foreign criminals last year. – No problem and negligible according to Mr Korun. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of five asylum applications, four are negative. Say: Four abusers per five applications were confirmed by the Minister of the Interior. – But no problem, although 80 percent are asylum abusers. And if you show this, then you, Mrs. Innenminister, will be convict today as a hetzer. So you've gone a long way on the left, Mrs. Innenminister, because, in fact, what you're doing is what you're doing, hetze! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you address the truth – and the truth is reasonable – then you have the responsibility to finally stop these misdevelopments. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I therefore conclude by saying: Please, finally implement the third-country legislation and do not permanently put it out of force as you live it! People from safe third countries have not to be admitted here as asylum seekers!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e6328	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues, on the necessary reinforcements in the 2012 amendment of the legislation on foreign matter. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to agree. - He doesn't find a majority. Rejected. [[13:58:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00177_d7e6368	At today's meeting, the self-employed was brought in 2105/A(E). Questions 12921/J to 12930/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
