ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e1586	Good day, ladies and gentlemen! I'm opening the 152. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 148. Sitting and the official minutes of 149. Meeting of 28. ==References====External links== Meeting of 29. ==References====External links==* Official website As prevented, Members of Parliament are reported to be Ablinger, Mag. Becher, Königsberger-Ludwig, Prehauser, Wenninger, Mag. Cortolezis-Schlager, Grillitsch, Ing. Hofer, Vilimsky, Dr. Lichtenecker, Dr. Van der Bellen and Ursula Haubner. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e1620	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Federal Minister for Health Alois Stöger, diplôméwird represented by the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf Hundstorfer. [[10:16:42]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e1656	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:16:54]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e1778	Members Dr. Rosenkranz, ladies and gentlemen, asked that the written question tabled at the beginning of the meeting be dealt with urgently by Dr Rosenkranz, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance on the investigation of corruption accusations. The call for urgent request will take place at 1.15 p.m. The meeting will be held live on ORF 2 from 13:15 a.m. to 4 p.m. and on ORF III in full length. I am now interrupting the sitting until 1.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e1814	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take your seats. [[13:16:38]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance on the Enlightenment of Corruption (11327/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e1855	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 11327/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2006	Ladies and gentlemen! As already discussed in detail last Tuesday, I would like to ask you at this point to not quote or read confidential documents from the Committee of Inquiry. [[Calls.]] I now give Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2040	Madam President. The first callers of funny nature have already set themselves up at the ÖVP. Keep your humor for this session! Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government, in particular Mrs Federal Minister for Finance, to whom this question refers! Why is this special meeting taking place today? The investigative committee set up by all parliamentary parties to clarify corruption is at a certain distance. There has been no agreement on what has happened in agreement so far, because a special rupture has now occurred to the opposition, pardon: the government parties have developed. [[Call at the ÖVP: That was typical Freud!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Yes, the ÖVP is still a good blaze. We'll see if that's gonna stop. Why this special meeting? – The government has overcame us and has now provided us with a cargo in a beautiful even casting pot system: a blue, an orange, a green, a red and one that is rather attributed to the ÖVP; in reality not to the brilliant topics, because it would have been about other things. Mr Jarolim said in the media – I quote him from the “standard” that was available to me –: What was agreed in the Coalition Agreement was decisive. Then one posts: “But that’s what’s going on for the population... past the A!” That is in itself the case. The population is waiting for information here – and not what it is clearly said about it: the cover-up. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can speak for the opposition parties. These have never opposed any information person, even if they were their own or former own people. We've always said it needs to be clarified and revealed. This was also a goal for us liberals, because we already started a self-cleaning process in the party in 2002 in Knittelfeld and in 2005 with the change under H.-C. It was also very concrete. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and ironic calls at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the ÖVP, which already has a very funny mood: I can only recommend that you also look for an event venue in Knittelfeld! We can serve there with the relevant mediation. Without commission, don't worry! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Which persons did they mention in these load lists? – It is about an employee of the ÖAAB, about Mr Habeler, and it is about a head of state of the ÖVP, about Mr Malaun, who both had something to say about Telekom and, as they direct us through the media, even want to say something. Everyone said: We would like to come to the investigation committee, but our own party does not leave us! – Are you really dealing with functionals in the ÖVP? – They want to contribute to truth finding and then they are so horribly pummeled back! But the role of SPÖ is also a little to be illuminated here. The SPÖ, attached to the Coalition Convention, actually feels quite comfortable, especially if names of other people we would have liked to invite, namely a Mr. Pöttler or a Mr. Ali Rahimi. Madam President, I would also like to expressly support what you agreed at the beginning. On the part of my group, nothing that is confidential will be published here, read out, or similar, because we take the investigation committee seriously and do not see it as any Kasperl Theatre where any rules can be broken. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I quote Mr Rahimi or what Mr Hochegger said about him – a Stenographical Protocol, available on Parliament's homepage. So Hochegger said: “In 2006 before the NR elections, Ali RAHIMI spoke to me whether it was not possible to support the SPÖ’s election campaign by Telekom Austria. I told him I was going to examine the question, and then I suggested to Telekom Austria to donate EUR 20 000. It is likely that FISHERS – Rudi Fischer – knew “in any case SCHIESZLER. I also recommended that SCHIESZLER come to an event in the premises of Ali RAHIMI and offer this donation of EUR 20 000. I was also present at this event and then agreed with Christian PÖTTLER... to define the invoice and its content. Finally, I received an invoice for the support of a study "Advertising Free News" by Echo Verlag. "The goal was the only and only transfer of money. The advantage for the TELEKOM was good mood by the SPÖ.” – And so on. Why, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, can we not question this person? [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: This is incomprehensible!]] Because they say that would go too much into the detail? Madam President, you just meant that you should focus on the big fish. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We would and will be very happy to do that. The Pilz colleague is an experienced fisherman and he knows that you only come to the big fish if you have the same baits before. Some of them can be very small. In his profession there is even fly fishing, so even a small pilot can pull a very large fish ashore, for example. Therefore, we wanted to start at the lower level, because unfortunately we also know to God that especially the great fish say very often in their statements: I'm being led as an accuser, I'm going to take the statement. – This is also criticized by the media. To do this, I have to say: The rights of an accused person are also respected here in Parliament, since there is nothing at all at all. There is a parallel between criminal proceedings and party political and political information that is being carried out here in the house. But what has this committee already brought? - He's drawn a moral image. What has so far been suspected has become a certainty by the example of a company, namely Telekom. In this place, I have to say: I suffer with the hundreds and thousands of employees at Telekom, because they have not deserved what their board level has done in this company and what they are now being brutalised for in this form! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same applies to the thousands of hunters in Austria, who enjoy the cultural heritage of hunting, but in the discussions and in perception the hunt is only more negatively represented. I also ask you not to pour the child out with the bath! Only because, in particular, a political party, which is also sitting here in the house, abuses hunting for various things to make agreements and similar, cannot be evaded the entire cultural heritage of hunting in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what kind of morals do we see? – We have seen that a company like Telekom pays for the personality election struggle of an existing Minister of Justice. If that were to happen somewhere in southern Italy, if that would happen somewhere in some parts of the former Soviet Union, it would be said that this is normal. - No, that's what happens to us in Austria. There are party payments on non-numbering bills. – Later on, because the Minister of Finance will be particularly interested. We have recognized who has the sage at a Lower Austria-tribal table, a club in the premises of the ÖVP-Landtagsclub in Herrengasse. It is not the ÖVP system, but it is the ÖVP Lower Austria system that has taken place here under the stripping of Erwin Pröll. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Yes, now comes the protest of the ÖVP Lower Austria. Dear Members from Lower Austria, do you remember a certain Ernst Strasser or has he already disappeared so completely from the memory that you don't know his phone number at all? It is not enough simply to sit in Lower Austria with a blue-yellow wheel jersey on a wired donkey and say: I like to ride a bike. – This is too little for politics. And so that the Lower Austria-tribal table does not remain exclusive, but other well-deserved people come in – by the way, President of this Lower Austria-tribal table, Mr. Hameseder, successor of Conrad, is, one can see that in the hunting club, there are still a few other people, as we have experienced. President, please? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] What word message is there yet? – President of this hunting club is Mr. Stoss of the casinos. You stay beautiful with each other. In order to come to Tyrol now, because a person of information, Mr Malaun, is already taking his steps. First of all, he says he knew everything by whom what happened; then he says that he or a Member of this House may not have known what happened. – Until Mr Malaun, if at all, comes to the Committee of Inquiry, he will suffer an amnesia which has already been seen by several, especially in the case of hunting participants. Hunters, especially Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly, suffer from a strong amnesia. They don't even know who chased him anymore. Maybe the fresh air is a problem somewhere. The Tyrolean head of state Platter meant that this investigation committee only serves to make politicians worse. I can only answer this: This is not necessary in the case of bad politicians. That is the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One of the callers at the beginning, the colleague Rödler, has already said in today’s Mr Rädler in the ‘NÖN’: [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Rädler!]] If Mr. Habeler comes, what is he supposed to say?- Oh, my God! – Mr Rädler, if he comes, we will ask him what he should say. Don't worry about that! But the investigation committee itself does not make sense if the correct lessons are not drawn from it. And, of course, it is obvious what lessons the partyobmann of the ÖVP Spindelegger draws. He wants to make a code of conduct. – What we need, ladies and gentlemen, are clear and transparent laws that have prevented you from doing so until now! [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] A statement was that payment to the ÖAAB could not be party financing, because ÖAAB is an association. – Such statements must belong to the past! Ahead organizations, country organizations, individual Members, all must be regulated accordingly. That is also what the majority of the population demands. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We don't want an American system, as Spindelegger demands. We want freedom in general so that the parties can get money from the economy, wherever it is. That's the American system. The Minister for Justice, Karl, has already done the preparatory work: When we feed, we do not want to look so closely at the question of party funding, we also want to look more away or make it punishable! That's exactly this system. And then, of course, there is also a personality like Mr Stronach, who knows the system from America, Canada, from the USA and who has always hired old politicians in the past – no worries, even former freedom politicians. We have no reason to blithe history in any form, but these American conditions, where a rich person simply buys a party in Austria, we clearly do not want that. That is why Mr Spindelegger's view is clearly wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to Mrs Federal Minister Fekter in the context of the questions asked. Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, you are also the owner of the ÖIAG on Deutsche Telekom. It is about participations where the Republic of Austria, where the shareholders and the Republic of Austria have been deprived of profits. It is also a question of the fact that money paid by Deutsche Telekom has economically been damaged by tax evasion, in particular by the State of Austria, by means of a detour of billing and the like. We can go through individual amounts. Let us start with the print cost contribution of € 10 000 to the ÖAAB. Mr Habeler could have said something about this, but should not have. – The SPÖ makes the robbers there. Print cost contributions without the corresponding consideration shall not be tax deductible as a party donation. My question, therefore, is: Is there a corresponding investigation at Telekom, what happens to this money? It is interesting, of course, that an ÖVP preparatory organisation in the era of a Minister of Finance, which has always been set by the ÖVP in recent years, is taking such measures. Or: 100 000 € election campaign for the Federal ÖVP, through the company White House and Hochegger. The ÖVP is ordering an advertising campaign worth €96 000, the ÖVP is not pre-tax deductible, what happens? – With a sham bill, the super-egger pays, and the pre-tax is deducted. That is, 16 000 € of sales tax will be saved here. Mrs Finanzminister, what are you doing to make this money flow into the state bag? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It goes on: A pure party donation would not be tax deductible. – What do you do that the tax records are re-opened and that the corporation tax is charged at Telekom? It is particularly interesting, of course, with the amount already reaching the million limit which was made available to the BZÖ in a campaign in various tranches and in different ways. I am glad that Mr Bucher said that when it became known that he wanted to clarify all these things to his new party and repay what was wrong. That's a good approach. You may be reporting whether this has already happened or when it will come. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Mrs Bundesminister, it is also a question of how you perceive the ownership relationship, how you control whether the ÖIAG is actually the right instrument at the moment. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] We have heard of the intertwinements of those who act. The controllers and the controllers are together on hunting trips – with whom they do not know. They are represented in the various Lower Austria clubs and hunting tribes. Is this really the right education or control – still against the background, Mrs. Federal Minister, we need to know about newspapers that some 200 000 emails have landed from the Deutsche Telekom area at the editor Kuch. However, these e-mails have not yet arrived at the public prosecutor's office or here at the investigative committee. It can't be! Mrs Finanzminister, you have to ensure that this blockade is finally stopped by the current Telekom Board of Directors on this information! It is unreasonable that Telekom and ÖIAG say: First we control everything ourselves, we read all these emails by ourselves! We have even commissioned our own audit firm, which once reads and looks through internally, and only then will we decide what we are making available to the public prosecutor and, in future, to Parliament! – This is not a restless and clean reconnaissance. This is a filter, and this poses the danger of cover-up and is therefore to be rejected! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, you are therefore required in three points: First of all, they are required as regards the financial situation as regards the tax which was obviously saved there. Secondly, as far as your supervisory duty over the ÖIAG is concerned, you have to think about the structure of the ÖIAG yourself. From your government partner there are already proposals to this end, since it is thought that with the ÖIAG something is not in the right lot. And if that turns out, something will be changed there too, because this committee of inquiry should lead to the corresponding consequences. And thirdly, What's going to be Are you doing so that the committee and the prosecutor can be fully controlled? But what actually happens? – In reality, the investigation committee is to be turned off. Before it comes to Faymann's listing and the like, this investigation committee should no longer take place. The corresponding statements are already coming – not directly, but there it becomes quite cryptic, there the Grands are presented. Mr Busek said that even the President-in-Office of the ÖVP is against the Committee of Inquiry, I quote: Maria Schaumayer, 80, attacked the U Committee on Corruption. He is “for the cat”, says the National Bank’s ex-chefin in the “profit” interview. Grotesk believes that €10,000 of Telekom to a VP organization has been called money laundering. For Schaumayer a huge schnitzer. Only: This great lady is wrong. The Committee has in no way claimed that it is money laundering. Whoever claimed this was the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. It has examined, looked at, and put this accusation in the room, not the Committee! But you can see what arguments are being used to make moods. Perhaps now – in the light of the interpretation that the prosecution is guilty – from the point of view of Mrs. Schaumayer, the prosecution is also “for the cat” when she says something like that. But if that is already the question of the ÖVP, then it is clearly overrun, if not wrong, but the main thing, this opposition lady of the ÖVP is working on the Code of Conduct. A pure placebo. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria needs a transparent party financing law where all levels are clarified. This must be done on the basis of the results of this Committee. It is therefore so important to clarify details in this committee so that we can make every possible way in which party funding has been passed and handled so far. We need the necessary legal regulations, then no codes of conduct and the like are necessary. We liberals do not want to do this information work because we can say that we have been credible in our cleaning process since 2005 with H.-C. We're getting a little bit behind us.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2293	To answer the question, Mrs Federal Minister for Finance has now referred to Dr. Fekter. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2315	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! The Ministry of Finance, which I am now chairing, of course supports all the activities of the investigative committee and the whole of Parliament's control. I am in favour of complete transparency and of preparing allegations and accusations. Enlightenment where there are accusations, investigations of the judicial system where there is criminal action or criminal suspicion, and cleanliness for politics – I have always held it that way, and for that I recognise myself quite offensively and directly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] I also recognise myself as clear rules of play, not only clear and clear laws – I have been here in the House for a long time – but also as binding standards for politics, because not all that is permitted by law is also really decent. Just as I, for example, as an interior minister, put on a code of conduct for the entire interior area at that time, just as my predecessor Josef Pröll put on an ethics code for the Ministry of Finance, so the ÖVP understands itself to create a policy-making regime in order to regain the confidence of the population. [[Abg. Oillinger: The grasser too!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Assigned: What was still tradition in our country about 15 or 20 years ago has a different significance today. There is a higher sensitivity to behavioural regulations and there is a different awareness of injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take this into account. Of course, infringements of law, violations of law, criminal action must be done and responded to with all the means of justice and criminal authorities. In the media coverage, however, the picture in the recent past is somewhat blurred. To the same extent, things were criminalized, which were not really a criminal suspicion, and obviously corrupt behavior was simply taken and not documented further. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, as already mentioned: The Ministry of Finance has already sent ten thousand pages of files. A total of 68 deliveries have so far been made on the evidence decisions. You, the High House, have the responsibility to separate from the enormous amounts of data from wheat, to find the truth, to show responsibility and then to make recommendations. This requires careful and thorough work. As far as I can support you, I would of course like to do so, so now the answers to the questions raised here. As regards questions 1, 3, 4 and 20: In accordance with § 114 of the Federal Tax Code, the tax authorities “are to ensure that all” – all of them “are recorded and treated evenly according to the tax rules and that tax revenue is not unjustly shortened.” As soon as the tax authorities acquire knowledge of the facts likely to reduce the tax burden, the information necessary for the assessment of the tax will be collected and other necessary surveys carried out. Depending on the results of the surveys, the respective burden and financial penalty measures shall be imposed by the competent tax authorities or financial criminal authorities. There, too, there is no reduction in personnel, where we have increased staff in addition, such as the financial police. Questions 2 and 5 to 13: In accordance with § 48a of the Federal Tax Code, the obligation – the obligation – exists in connection with the implementation of tax procedures and/or financial penalties. – for the purposes of issuing legal secrecy. It is therefore not legally possible for me to inform you of details from the files. At the beginning of the sitting, the President of the House referred specifically to this. The legal situation is such that no circumstances or circumstances unknown to the public may be disclosed to the persons or undertakings referred to in the specific request or by the specific levy or financial penalty proceedings. Question 14: The Federal Ministry of Finance only recognises the rights of the Republic of Austria as sole owner of Austrian Industrieholding AG at the Annual General Meeting. According to § 11 para. 2 ÖIAG Act excludes the formation of a group relationship between ÖIAG and its shareholders. ÖIAG is involved in Telekom Austria at 28.42 percent. The remaining 71.58 percent are in the scatter. The rights of these shareholders and the rights of ÖIAG as shareholders shall be exercised at the Annual General Meeting. In the light of the legal situation presented, the Federal Ministry of Finance has no possibility of introducing measures to clarify its painting in the field of Telekom Austria AG or to give ÖIAG instructions in this regard. Moreover, the Federal Ministry does not have any information rights to Telekom Austria, especially with regard to the listing of Deutsche Telekom, because all shareholders have the same treatment. Instead, it is the exclusive task of Telekom's corporate bodies to clarify the incriminated facts in detail and, where appropriate, to take appropriate measures such as case-law representations to the public prosecutor's office, assertation of claims for damages, recoverys from payments from share options, e.g. 2000, where applicable, social measures vis-à-vis members of the board of directors. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria AG therefore implemented Deutsche Telekom's Supervisory Board decision of 2. September 2011 after intensive expert search the internationally renowned audit firm BDO Germany on 7 September 2011. In October 2011, it was commissioned to carry out the relevant investigations. The task of the investigation team is to carry out comprehensive forensic analyses for the investigation and prevention. The mandate includes both the clarification of historical facts and the dissemination of proposals to improve compliance with the system, so that painters can be excluded as far as possible in the future. In addition to the evaluation of the audit results carried out so far, the main focus is on the examination of essential acquisitions, such as fixed networks and mobile segments, as well as the largest real estate transactions and procurement transactions, as well as the essential advisory contracts in the audit order. In principle, the audit proceedings cover the period 2000 to 2010. The report on the results of the investigations is scheduled for the Annual General Meeting of Telekom Austria AG on 23. ==References== Now on question 15: The outcome of the Committee of Inquiry remains to be seen. If any legal consequences are necessary, they are taken of course within the framework of legal possibilities. Questions 16 and 17: In addition to the measures already presented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Finance will, of course, take the report of the Committee of Inquiry to take possible and necessary steps after a serious evaluation of the same, within the scope of my competence as Minister of Finance. All the findings made by the BMF on the remaining evidence topics of the Examining Committee were made available to the Examining Committee. As I have already said, I see it as my task to support the work of the Committee of Inquiry as much as possible. All requested documents were therefore transmitted as soon as possible and to the extent of countless gigabytes. In this context, I refer to the documents submitted and their scope. Questions 18 and 19: The issues are directly related to criminal responsibility. This is being clarified by the competent authorities. First of all, this is a question not for the financial sector but rather for the jurisdiction of the judicial system. As far as the judicial system believes that financial contributions can be made, it will, of course, do so – and that has already happened. Apart from this, there are, of course, appropriate audits by the large audit in the financial management, but with regard to criminal proceedings, the Justice is the master of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2402	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Strache is the first to speak for 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2430	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear spectators in front of the televisions! The question arises: Why has today's special meeting of the three opposition parties become necessary? . It has therefore become necessary because we had to experience that the two government parties SPÖ and ÖVP have ultimately tried to explain exactly what we had to do with previous investigation committees, because they have started the attempt to stop this investigation committee. And that's the background we're rightly in favour of with this emergency act today, because it can't be that you're acting here on a permanent basis. And this is exactly what we are currently experiencing, and we have already had to experience it at the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, at the Banking Investigation Committee, but we also had to experience it at the Spittel Investigation Committee. We don't want to see this again. We do not want information to be allowed to be blocked from the front to the back, in order to achieve an objective that the government parties clearly have, namely, to turn the committee off and thus to make it impossible for information to be informed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, all of this reminds us of the famous film "And daily the Murmeltier greets". We know this because similar mechanisms always happen: First, when it comes to the setting up of committees of inquiry, the government is at the end of the day when they have been used, they are blocked and are finally trying to turn them off. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] That is exactly what these mechanisms are, which are repeated again and again and again, unfortunately, we also need to experience God again and again in this House. At the beginning, one has already had the impression – and that must be mentioned – that you would handle it differently for a while. That was the case at least at the beginning. It was believed that you really have an interest in reconnaissance here, but, as I said, now we see that this is different. And you could obviously have wagered that sooner or later you show your true face. I say that if we can also localise this at the ÖVP, there seems to be the greatest interest in turning away from the investigation committee. That has been said again and again! Even though the head of the party does not yet admit it so publicly, from there it always comes exactly that desire and the articulation of the desire to finally end it. There are probably some of the dreams that this end is about to come. I say we can and will not allow that. We have a responsibility, and this responsibility is: Everything there is to blame here, all that there is in the case of painting allegations, and finally derive the corresponding political consequence from it in our responsibilities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It takes clear laws, transparent laws and transparent party donations – and that is exactly what has to be done quickly. And that's where you dress as government parties. This could have happened before Christmas last year. That's not the case, but that's exactly what it takes! In the end, they only continue to play the credibility of politics in general, if you continue to block here and continue to try to delay it. This is damaging to parliamentarianism as a whole, and that is why we all have a great responsibility here. And here you're going to take the wall from the SPÖ, unfortunately God of the ÖVP. That's no wonder, because of course you have enough painting in your own ranks, and then you make the wall. There used to be a poster on which: “Pack is beating, Pack is going to be!” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Sometimes we have the impression that this has a certain amount of topicality on this issue, because of course social democrats are also involved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Of course, there are also the SPÖ delegates Gartlehner, who, as a former telecomer of SPÖ, has managed more than €100 000 in his own private bag on Telekom, and of course there are also youth studies by Ms Laura Rudas, who were so valuable and important that 20 000 € have been paid for it, and many, many other areas more. Of course, you should not forget that Mr Hochegger received a total of €45 million from Deutsche Telekom and you have to ask yourself how this allocation of €45 million actually took place. There are the cost of printing of € 10 000, which are available in the field of the ÖVP, in part probably small fish, if you put it once on the total amount received by Mr Hochegger and probably also split up. Of course, it should not be forgotten that Mr Hochegger was also a partner of an advertising company that is very close to you, namely Mr Ecker, and that in the red and black government era, some of the orders were given to Hochegger and Co. All of this has to concern us and must be illuminated accordingly, as of course also the € 7 million “for the Werner” who are always a topic. You have to face that all in all! 7 million € for the Werner Faymann for ÖBB and ASFINAG listings, where it appears that some government representatives are sailing around under a pirate flag in Austria, when it comes to looking at the areas close to the state with the eyes of a freeman and using for themselves when it comes to political insects, which one should have commissioned himself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All of this is something that naturally exasperates the population: Of course, looking at such developments and looking at them more closely is an outrageous matter for every citizen. These are still unexplained, but the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP apparently refuse to make this remaining information possible here and clarify the accusations in the field of Telekom. And it seems that this chapter of the Committee of Inquiry is just about to be closed. You don't want to load important information people anymore, which is simply immense in the way. There we can and will not watch. Of course, you also have to comment briefly on the interview by Mr. ÖVP Party Head Spindelegger from the weekend in the newspaper “ÖSTERREICH”: It was already quite bizarre what had to be read, namely, when Mr ÖVP Party Chief said that he was satisfied that the ÖVP was constantly being suspended things he wanted nothing to do with. You already had the impression: It's funny, he doesn't want to have anything to do with Mr. Strasser now. Has Mr Mensdorff lost anything in the ÖVP environment? What was the situation with Mr Grasser, who was Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2002 onwards? From that point on, there are these painting accusations. Is there perhaps in the ÖVP even the Ernst Strasser Medal that is being set up for anti-corruption because it has earned so much merit there? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How does Mr ÖVP's head of party see that with the ÖVP Tyrol, where there are accusations where one has been shot down after another? – So it has already been a bit succinct, which was given for the best on the weekend by the ÖVP party leader in the daily “ÖsterREICH”. So I think it is necessary – and I also hope that the government parties have used Easter peace to do so – to make a little bit of an internal return. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] And perhaps the Holy Spirit has also “been shot in” with you, Mr. Col., even if it comes to Pentecost first, but that would be necessary and important. For tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the Examining Committee will meet, and it is therefore necessary for your side to finally return in this direction so that this Examining Committee can continue to comply with its work correctly and responsibly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, you also need to remember the following: Who has so far prevented the right of minorities to a committee of inquiry in this House? – That was also the government parties! They promised it. This also shows, in turn, in a sub-area, what your promises are worth, which have been given and which one does not want to remember and which one is not willing to keep. But I hope that now there has been some self-knowledge about Easter holidays, not to block it here anymore, because I say it was really last-class what you had to experience over the past few weeks. It was just that last-class, because of course this is about morals in politics being something whole, very essential, and all of us – all of us! – are asked, and I do not take anyone and no party out, everything that exists in unexplained things, at last really seriously clarify and say: Yes, we want to conclude together such legal gaps that exist in part. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] [[Abg. Petzner:... Scheuch! Did you say that to Mr. Scheuch?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We want to close the loopholes in such a way that in the future there is no longer any interpretation at all, that you make clear and clear rules and that someone who does not comply with them is also subject to criminal prosecution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly what the population expects from all of us – without exception: from all of us! – because there must be no more such gray areas, as they have partly appeared, just as soon as possible. That's our responsibility, and we're going to meet that responsibility. Mr. Walter Rosenkranz rightly referred to the fact that we did not take advantage of it ourselves, because in our party history too we had wrong developments which we rightly fought within the parties, and we were also able to lead the party into a cleaning process in 2005. [[Abg. Petzner: You still have the sheep!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an important process, but other parties here in this House need the courage to bring up this self-cleaning power and to stop such things in their own party, even if, of course, it is rumbling in their own party. [[Abg. Petzner:... Scheuch!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Ing. Höbart.]] But this is a basic condition that is necessary if one is to stand for clean policies, and that is what the population expects of us. We will not give any peace and quiet in this question, because it is necessary and important for political and democratic hygiene to make such things impossible and excluded in the future, or at least to formulate the laws in such a way that there can no longer be any grey areas on these issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2589	Next, Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2610	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! I may say the following at the beginning – in order to clean up also with this March, which you are constantly wearing there –: There is no slightest approach to the fact that this committee of inquiry, which I believe has done very good work so far and has discovered a great deal, should be terminated early. We will go through all the points we have made together and come to an end here. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: I'll take you by the word!]] And in parallel, we have undertaken to decide until the summer of this transparency package, which is a necessary answer to all the issues we are here within the framework of the Committee... – 2012, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Summer, what year?]] Summer 2012, otherwise it would be a defeat, I can tell you. We want to make this happen until then. Mr. Strache! What I don't quite understand is the following: If you look at what this Committee of Inquiry is dealing with, what it is supposed to be dealing with, and what the real issues are, and look at all these monsterities that have happened between 2000 and 2006, especially your party and the BZÖ, then I do not understand at all that you can stand out here and do so in a way that you are in favour of an Enlightenment, and say that SPÖ and ÖVP wanted to prevent them now. [[Abg. Ing. That's incredible! What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: We are for Enlightenment! You do...!]] I can tell you one thing – because you referred to Mr Pöttler: Mr Pöttler has already sent all the documents to the Public Prosecutor's Office. You can also agree with him, that's what we're trying to do, but you don't need to believe that we're just trying to hide something here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Let's invite... to the Investigation Committee!]] But whoever should reveal something, and there we are not bad on the road, these are the Freedom Party and the BZÖ. Mr. Klubobmann Strache! Who here, do you believe, really believe the story with the cleansing you have carried out, where you have turned away from the bad at yourself, from your former partner? [[Abg. Hörl: BZÖ!]] – No one believes that! And if you look at the documents now and read through, you can also see what actually happened here, and it's also there: FPÖ. And I am not only talking about Mr Meischberger, who received €2 million from Telekom alone and was also involved in all other things, where the then Minister of Finance carried out a privatisation or other projects, I am not just talking about the “New Free News” – the “New Free News” is your leaf, please! – which received € 192 000, I am not only talking about the four studies paid out by Mr Rumpold, each of which is only the first one, to the extent of €600 000, since I am not only talking about the BZÖ being sponsored by Telekom by an election campaign of € 960 000. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: excluded in 1999! What are you talking about here?]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Call the FPÖ:Falsch!]] – All of this is arrears due to the fact that the amounts are not taxed! That is why this also pays to taxpayers and not only to Deutsche Telekom, which I can say on the occasion. Mr. Gorbach – “Crystallisation figure” and “Stablety-guarantor” in a study that cost €450 – received € 268,000 in retrospect. Mr Wittauer – all who know Mr Wittauer – can probably only take note of this gruesome or actually affected here – has €629,000 – €629,000! – get and do zero for it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I do not want to mention Mr Birnbacher, nor does Mr Haider, who led Carinthia into bankruptcy. But that's not a coincidence! This is not a coincidence, and we have been told here – and that is why the Committee is so important – by a secretary of the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Schmid, that was your blacksmith in the Ministry of Infrastructure, about a discussion with Hochegger, and I can quote this from the public protocol: [[Abg. New builder: If he's so important, why don't you let him work?]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Let's invite you!]] “In the course of this conversation, Peter Hochegger told me that a small group of people from FPÖ had recently been gathered together and discussed the privatisations provided for in the government programme. It has been concluded that the various privatisation projects should be monitored by the usual festival, i.e. fees, to “participate”. It was meant that the group of persons referred to by Hochegger should be paid to FPÖ. [[Abg. Petzner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Matznetter) Matznetter, wake up!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, did it look like this: In each single step, this group of persons has implemented this decision – I would say that it is a de-enrichment decision. That is what we will find, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why the Committee of Inquiry is a good establishment. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Why do you have a problem with the invitation...?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] He will continue to be a good establishment, and you will eventually have to take your nose, whether anyone in the population still believes what you explain all the time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2858	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e2880	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In fact, we should be glad about this special meeting because it gives us once an opportunity to talk about it and also to clear misunderstandings about what our duties as Members are and how we should carry out these tasks. [[Abg. New builder: How to not get over 30 percent!]] For one of our tasks is undoubtedly to control, namely the control of the government and the administration, that is, the execution in this country, but not on our part, by shining on each side with the flashlight into the pockets of the parties. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But that's just...!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Examining Committee is the sharpest instrument in the investigation, and in this case we have applied it and used it, ladies and gentlemen, because there are a whole series of accusations that must also be examined. [[Abg. Grosz: We just do the blacks' pants anyway!]] But we are not here to do the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, ladies and gentlemen, and we are certainly not here to ask Mr Rosenkranz questions in a question to the Minister, of which everyone has to know something legal know that the Minister would break the silence of office if she answered some of these questions. [[Abg. Grosz: But about the kidney stones of Mr. Juncker...!]] And she already said that. So we are certainly not here to call on members of the government to break the silence! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: She talks about the kidney stones, but here she is silent!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, we are not here to accuse each other of protecting immunity, personally loathing and defaming ourselves, as has unfortunately happened in connection with this committee. On one hand, we are certainly not here either: on the other hand, we are in favour of supporting the proficiency of individual Members in the committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of serious accusations: Corruption, abuse of office in the sale of federal apartments, government radio and much more. – These are serious accusations that need to be resolved without delay. They concern enforcement, i.e. government and administration, and are, of course, most of the items to be dealt with in a committee of inquiry. Therefore: The political relevance and responsibility of politicians must of course be examined and treated in this Committee of Inquiry, and there is nothing going on, ladies and gentlemen, certainly not! All items are dealt with! But, ladies and gentlemen, it is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure that there is a duty of unanimity in relation to load lists or negotiating items to be decided – and there is no obligation in the Rules of Procedure to fulfil all the wishes of Mr Pilz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whatever promotes this investigation committee, which also promotes the prosecution investigations: If there are political personal responsibilities, there will be more stringent legal regulations following these investigations, and we by the EIA also want to make tougher party rules. Think of the many companies that exist with us, which in recent times have all the compliance rules, i.e. their own rules of play, which clearly go beyond criminal law! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I think our claim to ourselves, our moral behavior must be clearly above that of criminal law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, two problems have already been identified by this Committee of Inquiry, one of which is the simultaneousity of investigations with the Public Prosecutor's Office. What's this all about? – Inflexibility on the one hand through discharges and on the other – much worse! – Discretion by individual Members in dealing with files of the public prosecutor's office, pre-condemnations, damage to the reputation of innocent citizens and politicians. This, ladies and gentlemen, shows the problem. We have always said this, and we must never do so in the future, namely to conduct a parliamentary investigation committee at the same time as public prosecutors' investigations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: We've always done this!]] The constant quoting of the word ‘indebtedness’ does not eliminate this problem. The second problem, ladies and gentlemen: Abuse in connection with the Investigation Committee. There are accusations against colleagues, personal evasions are made of themselves – in the protection of immunity. Mr Strache used the word ‘last-class’ earlier. A fellow Member of Parliament, to call an undisputed Member a ‘corruption member’, to compare an undamaged colleague with a suspect, that is last-class, Mr Pilz! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But this is a matter of dealing with the Committee of Inquiry and has nothing to do with the legal provisions. Mr Rosenkranz, if you put allegations into space, a party abuses the hunt for any agreement, I can only say: If hunting is appropriate, then everyone could do so, not just a particular party, because apparently many – and I do not, Mr Rosenkranz – should hunt, but to push a party to abuse this social event is just as final to use the word of your colleague Strache. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: This is embarrassing, Lord Head!]] Ladies and gentlemen, a third problem in this context: The investigative committee is being abused as a stage for party-political conflicts. – The Examining Committee is not an instrument of opposition work, but an instrument of the whole Parliament for the control of execution. He does not belong to Mr Pilz, he does not belong to Mr Rosenkranz, the Examining Committee is an instrument of all of us to carry out our task towards the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Whenever you say “all” you mean the ÖVP!]] It was a little treachery, Mr. Rosenkranz, when you spoke of “Participal Enlightenment”. They apparently did not understand the function of the U Committee. It is not an instrument of party political Enlightenment, it is the parliamentary Enlightenment of all of us! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This special meeting is taking place today because individual Members of this House are always deliberately exchanging the levels and places of dialogue. It takes place because Members of this House are putting their personal profile and the political show about their actual task. But I would ask you not to misunderstand, ladies and gentlemen: We have every reason to seriously question the habits of dealing with politics and the economy, the habits of dealing with politics and the media. There have been some serious, many less serious, some also highly played things at these interfaces policy/economics, politics/media that it is necessary to investigate and, above all, to re-regulate. We are committed to stricter laws – and this committee of inquiry will also guide us to re-regulate this – but, ladies and gentlemen, if we continue our task of control and political debate in this way, and I say, in this cheap way, we do not benefit from the Enlightenment in any way and, on the other hand, even destroy the rest of the people's belief in the functioning of representative parliamentary democracy. We can't all of us want that!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3106	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3127	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, also ex-colleges on the government bank! Thank you, Mr Klubobmann, for the illuminating sentence: We will not ‘ let ourselves shine into the pockets of the parties. ’ [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] - I understand. If you have filled the pants after six years of government bowl properly, then you are keenly interested in not being lit into these pockets. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's too much in there in these black, but also blue and orange pants. In this respect, Mr. Klubobmann's head, we are also a "Pants' Pants' Exploration Committee". [[New warmth with the greens.]] But of course not only that! You have said that the task of the Committee of Inquiry is to control execution. – Yes, but you forget an important point! The task of the Committee of Inquiry is also something which no prosecutor and no prosecutor can afford, namely the control and determination of political responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now we are coming to the events of this special meeting. Not we have made and signed the ÖAAB accounts, with which ÖAAB has cashed over Hochegger's Valora Telekom funds, whereupon there is no invoice, there is no consideration, the prosecutor – and not the Parliament – then says: On the grounds of suspicion of infidelity, of contribution and of money laundering, we have not decided that the Group leader of the Austrian People's Party in the committee of inquiry, Mr Amon, will also be determined, but we can see one thing: On the question of political responsibility, we can only ask those who were then in the ÖAAB politically responsible, and that is Mr Amon. Let us now come to Tyrol – by the way, I should like to extend my warm greetings and warm thanks to the Tyrolean People's Party and in particular the Innsbruck People's Party for your way, with control, with corruption and with the promise of political cleanliness – we come to the case of Hakl! That's nothing else. The invoices have not been issued by the Committee of Inquiry, which are Hakl accounts from the election campaign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] Karin Hakl said to the later ÖVP country managing director in Tyrol: Go, get the money from Telekom!, he said himself. Managing Director Malaun says: I would also like to say this in the Committee of Inquiry that I am prepared, under the duty of truth, to say all that the Tyrolean ÖVP Telekom funds have been concerned about the Hakl election campaign, I want to say about it! - But the public authority says: No, Veto, he can't! Who is politically responsible? – Not anyone, not the opposition in the investigation committee, but, of course, Mrs Hakl and the Tyrolean People’s Party – and we cannot question them?- Oh, my God! Mr. Klubobmann's head – where is he? – Mr Klubobmann Kopf, what does this mean is clarification of political responsibility? [[Abg. Grosz: Quickly left the hall!]] I am not going to quote anything today, the President is right, the Assembly of the National Council is not the place to quote from confidential documents, but tomorrow in the Committee of Inquiry we will ask questions about a huge bundle of peasant federal accounts and a representative of the Austrian People's Party, and we will again ask: [[Call the ÖVP: That's exactly what the fungus says!]] Who bears the political responsibility? Why should not national council members be invited to this committee? That is why it is at the heart of the matter: this committee is working successfully. This successful work was a work of five parties until a few weeks ago. Member of the European Parliament Amon has participated, has prepared, has asked questions and has found out some information about hidden party funding to the BZÖ and to the FPÖ. In this context, Mr Amon was one of the most zealous Members, there we were a five-party committee. Suddenly, it's about the first affairs of the Austrian People's Party, and it's all over. It is touched concrete, a party is walled in and says: Stop it! All the others can be loaded, active politicians, retired politicians, only of the Austrian People's Party there is a group of untouchables in terms of corruption: the untouchable Member of Parliament Amon, the untouchable Members Hakl, the touching Member Grillitsch and a number of other politicians. Why are we not allowed to question active politicians? Why did only retire, why which party membership, like Ernst Strasser, has been “rested ”? Although I do not know what a “retirement” party membership is, he is not a member of the ÖVP. - We want to clarify this now. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I do not want to say anything to you, I did not do so at the last special session. Like all the parties, the ÖVP is a party in which there are enough politicians, enough Members who want to have other conditions and who want the population to have another reason to trust politics in this House. It would be a long time to say: The ÖVP is also in favour of clarifying all affairs in the investigation committee, including the affair of Amon, also the affair of Hakl and also the affair of the Farmers' Federation! [[Call the ÖVP:Van der Bellen!]] Of course, everything should be examined, not a question at all! It is only when we can successfully complete the investigation that we have taken advantage of the last great opportunity of Austrian policy to reverse. There is an honest majority in this republic – perhaps not in the government savings, but certainly in the Austrian population. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Watch what you say! Naughty!]] There is an honest majority in the Austrian population, which rightly says: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] We work, we pay honest taxes, and we have no understanding at all that our taxpayers are simmering from Eurofighter to BUWOG in black, in blue, in orange, and again and again in red channels! There is no understanding of this. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka.]] This rich country has enough money for schools, for universities, for care, for the expansion of public transport, but only on one condition: that we finally succeed in the common corruption brake. That is the crucial point, and this point will also decide on confidence in policy. Please, for the protocol: Exciting in the ÖVP. Why, colleagues from the ÖVP? I say here the most natural thing in the world, namely that we have the task of fighting corruption together. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Because that's immense what you're saying!]] Mr Lopatka’s voice is: It's a horrendous thing! – Well, then I take note that a member of the ÖVP says that it is an immeasurable thing to fight corruption. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: No!]] It is also obvious that it is also an immeasurable to invite suspicious Members to the committee. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Accusing us of a flat-rate, that's immense!]] Clearly, it is an immeasurable thing to address the development of the Austrian People's Party in almost all corruption scandals. But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we need this turnaround in politics! Do not believe that the people in this country who are forced to finance corrupt practices will be able to stand still longer if you are hindering Parliamentary Enlightenment if you force the SPÖ to announce the coalition with the threat that it will open up, to no longer be able to clarify key issues in this investigation committee! And one last to you from the ÖVP: Mr Head of Parliament, it is not a new code, it is not about any rules of conduct – it is about politicians of all parties, including the Austrian People's Party, of course comply with the laws in force. That would be a great step forward. The next and greatest progress would be to implement the best and sharpest laws against corruption in Europe, against illegal party funding, against party accounting and against abuse of power. I already hear one: The alliances must not be treated as a party! According to Amon of the ÖAAB, the representatives of the Farmers' Federation, perhaps Mrs. Hakl of the Economic Federation, say the great reformers in the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Bullshit!]] The alliances are not a party – and then do you prevent us from asking only one person from the Austrian People's Party to finance the parties through the three alliances of the Austrian People's Party in the Investigation Committee?- Oh, my God! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, there are two possibilities, and I am again turning to the ÖVP and also to the SPÖ: [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Either tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we will be able to work together in the Committee of Inquiry to end this blockade and re-examine all the questions, or we will have to talk as an opposition about the subject of the next special session! I suggest: Participant financing through ÖAAB. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3310	Next, Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3331	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with a fundamental question, which has been raised more often in the last few days and weeks, namely: Does the U-committee make sense at all? Many ask this point. Many questions: Does that even bring something that's happening here? The main criticisms are – they have already been mentioned in part – that it is difficult for the Committee of Inquiry to meet in parallel with criminal investigations. It is said that this is not a political investigation, but a political show. And some, especially from the Volks Party's ranks, also voice the accusation or concern that this Committee of Inquiry is damaging the overall reputation of politics. I do not share all these criticisms, ladies and gentlemen, and I am quite clear that I believe that the activities of the Committee of Inquiry are not in itself damaging the reputation and confidence in politics, but that those persons who are the subject and subject of this Committee of Inquiry are damaging the reputation and confidence in politics, not the Committee of Inquiry itself. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is our duty to lay down the political responsibility of these people in this committee, and I believe that this is quite a success and that we are on a good path. At this point I would like to refer to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who has given the Committee's work a good witness so far. I also believe that the Committee has already made sense and fulfilled its purpose because, for example, it has helped to raise awareness in the public at all, as far as corruption is concerned, that a public debate on sloppy conditions that have been tradition in Austria for decades is taking place, which is discussed and also asked: What's allowed, isn't it? What can and cannot be done by an official, a politician, a head of a company, and what can't? This discussion alone, this awareness-building, is a first, essential result of this committee and, despite all the criticisms, I believe that this Committee of Inquiry has already made sense. I have formulated this as an example in such a way that this Committee of Inquiry has revealed the “corruption cancer” in Austria, which is already far advanced and has already formed many metastases, and that this committee of inquiry is the treatment against it. Every therapy sometimes also hurts, a therapy also includes pain, but everyone knows that sometimes it has to hurt and that sometimes you have to have pain to get completely healthy again. This Committee of Inquiry is the way for Austria to regain its health, to free Austria from this soaring cancer of corruption, and therefore this Committee of Inquiry must continue, and I can only call on the two government parties to leave their plan, which they already have in the drawer, to turn off, and not to go through the investigation committee. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: That's not true, it's clearly said!]] I refer here very consciously to the BZÖ, because the BZÖ has recognized as the only party that the Enlightenment is necessary, and has jointly committed itself fully to this principle of Enlightenment, also with our Bundnisobmann Bucher. Our Allianceobmann has said, in contrast to yours: Everything on the table! Even if it concerns our own ranks, we want to clarify everything! I believe that this honest, consistent path is also honoured. We from the BZÖ have agreed to each person, including from our own ranks, we have not yet blocked: Gastinger, Gorbach, Schmied, Arno Eccher, Tina Haslinger, Christoph Pöchinger, Rüdiger Schender, Klaus Wittauer, Gernot Rumpold. The list could continue endlessly. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] You can laugh at what you want. We have proved that we really want to clarify. We've proven that we don't want to get under the carpet, unlike you. As the only party, we have already suffered or announced financial and human consequences. We are the only ones who have also put those involved in the doorstep and who have also announced that they will make financial compensation. [[Abg. Wheelers: Endless list!]] I am convinced that this honest, consistent, upright path will also be honoured – and not the cover-up. I refer to a survey just published on Twitter a few minutes ago, a large survey that has been conducted in the last few days, which has the result that the future alliance of Austria has gained confidence with the Austrians. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The BZÖ has gained confidence because the Austrians honour it that you are so honest and say that people have made mistakes, but we also suffer the consequences, we carry it through and we also make restitution. This path, this honest, consistent path – I refer once again to the survey – is honoured by the voters. And I can only appeal to the government parties, the reverse path you are going – that of covering, concealing, disputing, inventing some desert conspiracy theories and conspirators, right up to the truly disgusting and obscene installation of the victim Natascha Kampusch – to leave this wrong path and also to make your contribution to the fact that the investigation committee can be further clarified – namely, the painterries that concern the People's Party and the SPÖ. The colleague Rosenkranz has already mentioned it: Echo publisher, €20 000, where Hochegger says quite openly, that's a fine bill to vote the SPÖ positively and to finance the SPÖ election campaign in 2006. We need to find out what the cost of printing in relation to ÖAAB, €10 000, is all about. We also need to clarify the remaining things that still come to light. We have said that we are not quoting from the files, I am holding on to that, but I can at least show a photo without quoting it. [[The speaker holds a copy to the height on which a ballpoint pen can be seen.]] It is also to be explained why FCG trade union Franz Kusin is able to finance advertising materials for his FCG election campaign from Valora and thus Deutsche Telekom to an extent of more than €3 000...
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3407	Ladies and gentlemen, I am interrupting you: Also the heart is included. I urge you to comply with the rule. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3423	and ballpoint pens that were financed by Deutsche Telekom. Once again, we have a direct link to a political office, a Christian-social trade unionist to represent the interests of workers in Deutsche Telekom, and at the same time to the company lobbyist of Deutsche Telekom, who represents the interests of the Group, has his election pens financed. Such things must no longer happen in this country! And we will also have to discuss this issue, Mr Amon, in committee. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And also all the other issues that concern the two government parties. It was said here – and this is already striking – that there has been consensus so far. I've always said this and prophesied: Consensus will be so long, as long as it is only about BZÖ persons, as long as it is only about opposition persons. As soon as you get close to running government intelligence, loading people from the ranks of ÖVP and SPÖ, the blockade will begin – and this is exactly what is happening now. I read you the list. Take an example! We have gone the hard way that is not always pleasant, the Enlightenment. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, I ask you to go, go too! We need it. Because only if we all go this way of Enlightenment can we restore confidence in politics. When everything comes to the table and is clarified, the reputation of politics can be restored. And, last but not least, if legal consequences are created, the reputation of politics will be restored. We need tougher laws. We need stricter corruption rules. We need more transparency. We need a new party financing law. It is urgent for all of us to address the reform in this subject complex, as far as corruption is concerned, with an anti-corruption package, quite urgently, because I am convinced, once again, that this path will be honoured by the Austrians at the end of the day, when politics results and begins with itself by creating stricter rules, more transparency and stricter laws. I did not intend to say this, but because Mr Rosenkranz attacked us there: The FPÖ will also have its mission and task in terms of information. I'm just saying, Citizenship. The main information person will be Mr. Uwe Scheuch. When Mr. Strache speaks of a cleaning process in his party: He has not arrived at Mr. Scheuch until today, for Mr. Scheuch is sentenced to a prison sentence in the first instance and yet still serving party chairman of the Blue and Head of State representatives of Carinthia. This is not a cleaning process, it is unacceptable, and You never need to talk about cleanliness again if you still have a Mr Scheuch in your ranks, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[As a result of the accident at BZÖ and the SPÖ representatives.]] Final sentence: We will then take a very close look at how we are now doing with the government parties, how the FPÖ will behave when it comes to informing the Causa Scheuch about citizenship or asking the question of what Mr Meischberger has made at the anniversary festival of Mr Strache as an honorary guest.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3474	Next, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3496	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! I'm starting with a quote, which is: It is necessary that a Tyrolean head of state go hunting, and a Lower Austrian head of state will have to drink a glass of wine. – The quote is from Mr Spindelegger, now Vice-Chancellor. Behind this quite nice quote is the cruel reality, cruel with its really cruel fretz, that a Tyrolean country captain is already hunting, but not because it is so funny, but because he is invited and because he can pour out corresponding promotions to the inviteees behind the invitations. Glasses Wine are also drunk, less in Lower Austria, more in Vorarlberg. There it meets the clubman, but he can still keep his driver's license – not the Bundesklubobmann, of course the Landtagsfraction – and of course he can stay in the club. It's the Vorarlberger ÖVP. [[Abg. Hoefinger: And what about the colleague Winter?]] Everything can stay the way it is. That clearly shows: The vassals stumble, the vassals are sacrificed as sacrifice, but the lords, the authority as it is called beautiful, remain in office and honor. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – From Lower Austria and Tyrol exactly the interim comments come. There's no wonder there's anger citizen. There's no wonder people sometimes say nothing can come out of this investigation committee. If Mr Spindelegger does not respect parliamentaryism – and here I am with you, Mr Klubobmann Head: we should set the rules here in Parliament and should not let the government put us up with anything – if this Mr Spindelegger wants to miss us a code of conduct that is probably not even worth the paper, let alone the money, then let us see if this gentleman does not get the long shadows of the past. We remember: Mr Spindelegger came from ÖAAB. And it was the then ÖAAB chief Lichal, who bought a arms dealer nice for his federal army ammunition by €35 million, ammunition, which did not give it around 35 million, but already around 15 million, and which the federal army did not need. And at the arms dealer Beautiful there was a wonderful note where it stood: Spindelegger: first: 2 million party financing. Secondly, 35 million purchase price. This is this Mr Spindelegger who wants to tell us something today? – But don’t even think about it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And it continued as usual with the ÖVP: The Procuratorate has determined, and the Minister of Justice has slowed down the prosecutor's office. Anyone has said once from this point of view: cold. Yes, but that was, unfortunately, wrong! That's where the Minister of Justice came up. – Mr. Klubobmann, this is your friend Spindelegger? That's what we want to explain? But please don't! If he tells us how to get the parties to finance the economy, I can already imagine how it looks. But this is not the method that we imagine from the FPÖ. Then I can imagine that's the Beyrer method. I didn’t have “the honor” I really can’t say either, I didn’t have the pleasure to ask Mr. Beyrer from the ÖIAG in the investigation committee whether it is so common in his everyday life that he is flying around with a desk, whether it is customary for him to reside in ruling houses. He said it wasn't usual. But, unfortunately, he couldn't remember how often it was and who was with him. But I can imagine very well why he had the whole thing done with him, not just to receive money, but to pass on corresponding directives in his then organization, the IV. This is the Lord, who has never worked in the economy, but, of course, on behalf of the ÖVP could immediately become ÖIAG chief, because of his rich economic experience in political offices, in the office of Schüsel and in the EU. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it could be a grey one at this point! But let us also come to the ÖVP national groups. It's not much better in Tyrol. Mr Platter tells us that he has no problem at all when Mr Malaun comes to the committee. Well, these are the rulers of Malaun and smoke, who told us the story with the personality election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, has your federal top candidate really been so bad at the time that you have to hide him behind a regional candidate? I can't imagine that. Do you know what I'd rather imagine? The fact that Mr Malaun, who had an agency at the time, and the party staff, had collected smoke quite twice, namely about Hochegger/ÖAAB and for a second time to the damage of the party to the Economic Association. Because I don't think that Telekom is very much sponsoring the ÖAAB, but the economic federal candidate is not. I don't think so. With all the love for the Tyrolean ÖVP, but a little realism has to stay there. That's why I'm saying if something happens somewhere today, it's not just happening to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and ladies and gentlemen at home: The EIA does not have the absolute majority in the Committee of Inquiry and Parliament! It is always the SPÖ who is in the service! It was already true that Mr. Faymann said that Mr. Spindelegger is the dearest vice chancellor who can only happen to him. Why is the SP doing this? Is that the pre-emptive obedience, or will it, as perhaps the colleague Pilz has just said, be the Vienna coalition fidelity that there might be something reasonable coming out of it? Mr Jarolim's address was as follows: Whoever at the time had an AKH committee, who at the time had a “Lucona” scandal and committee – and that didn’t matter about small things, it was also about murder – he should beware of throwing dirt around here today, even if he did not succeed in this dirty dome action that the FPÖ, which has been clean since 2005, since this split, has only been hanging a drop. Nothing's gonna hang up. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, I can tell you from the government groups that your sample of nails in the investigation committee will still come if we want to load information people and you do not load them, and your sample of nails will still be here in plenary, when it comes to taking sharp laws, but really sharp laws, where the chambers are also involved, where the preparatory organizations are involved, and you are not prepared to do so. If you say no to all that, you didn't pass your nail sample. Then I can only end with a quote from Mr Spindelegger: The SP has not pragmatized its seat in the Federal Chancellery. Yeah, I can only say it's time that there was H.-C. I'm not sure what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3559	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3581	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear TV viewers! So far, the debate on how we have worked together to combat corruption has been extremely objective, constructive. Mr Deimek, I am somewhat disappointed at the way in which topics have been mixed and statements have been made. On behalf of my group, I would like to reject this with all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although some may not want to do so, the Committee of Inquiry – and I am entirely right with Mr Petzner – makes sense, and the Committee of Inquiry has been successful. On behalf of my group, Hannes Jarolim has already explained it, and I should also like to make it clear that we want to deal with the issues. There is no other plan to turn the investigation committee off. I would ask the opposition representatives to take note of this and not to constantly spread here untruths, namely to submit to social democracy, it would not be willing to deal with these issues. I would like to give you a further clarification here: We have nothing against it at all, and Hannes Jarolim has already explained it when Christian Pöttler is loaded. And when Kurt Gartlehner is repeatedly addressed: Kurt Gartlehner himself offered to testify as a witness in the investigation committee. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps some basic comments: Corruption is a danger to every society and ultimately also to democracy. The investigation committee was therefore set up to detect the accusations of corruption. But a clarification: Austria is not currently sinking into a corruption sum, as it is sometimes presented in the media, but is systematically working out corruption accusations and corruption cases between 2000 and 2006. The image of this Austrian policy is retroactively embarrassing. The previous findings of the Committee of Inquiry show a shocking pattern of this policy at the time. An inconceivable interaction of the state economy with those who were then politically responsible led to the most lucrative advisory agreements, sham transactions in millions and illegal party financing. This was and is criminal. These are questions of infidelity, of abuse of office. We do not need any new criminal regulations to do this. Here are the law enforcement bodies on the train who have to carry out the relevant investigations. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Corruption is difficult to prove. I would like to remind you here that it was twice the chance of the Commissioner, who at all led to the Causa BUWOG and to the Telekom scandal. It was, as the media said, an invoice that was found by chance on the occasion of the immo-finance process, namely, an account Over € 9.61 million, which should be transferred to a company Astropolis in Cyprus. From Cyprus the money went to Delaware, and from Delaware the money went to Liechtenstein, and from Liechtenstein it came on swallowed paths, possibly in a paper bag, to Austria and was created at an Austrian bank. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We in the Examining Committee support this activity by the judicial authorities and are very grateful that there is a legal regime such as the Procedural Regulation, which has enabled the procedure Gernot Schieszler to list details and has demonstrated very concrete illegal party funding, in particular against the BZÖ. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The members of the Committee of Inquiry will continue to work seriously. We will try to find common solutions in turn. We must achieve greater confidence in democracy and in parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3635	Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3656	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As someone who has been in politics for a while – 20 years in total, two thirds of it in the Federal Government, one third of it in the National Council as your colleague – as someone who was allowed to conduct an investigation committee, the so-called “Spitzel Investigation Committee”, I would like to begin with a review and with an analysis that, at least, gives me too much concern, an analysis that is always to be read, namely that in this country it has never been so bad about the reputation of politics, where we have to take note at tribal, at events and elsewhere, that everyone – I emphasize: everyone! [[Abg. Grosz: Who he turned off himself! Who he has successfully turned off!]] – politicians are poorly qualified as a gauner or, better said, disqualified, where from a flock of sheep, among which, as usual, but also individual blacks, has become one in the eyes of the population, where there is probably only more black sheep. And now this Committee of Inquiry, which, as in the case of the Spittel Investigation Committee, has started as a consensus project: That's good and very well done. But naive, who would believe that such a thing could continue for all eternity. I'll be back later. But, Mr Petzner and Mr Maier, in one, unfortunately God, you are wrong: This Committee of Inquiry has not led to an increase in the Austrians' confidence in politics until now. Perhaps now, Mrs. Moser, it will be better. “The standard” today holds us in the form of a market survey – and I consider the result of this survey to be shocking – the mirror, the mirror that tells us that 91 percent of the population – not 70 or 60 percent but 91 percent – believe that the Committee of Inquiry would not change at all. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's up to you!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Let's reject that!]] The reasons why it came this way are, from my point of view, diverse. Mrs Moser, you are reading the “standard” and continue reading it. It's not that good for the Greens, either, if I may say: More than three quarters of the population believe that SPÖ, BZÖ, FPÖ and ÖVP would make no contribution to ensuring cleanliness in their own ranks, but even with the greens who have never been in government responsibility in all these years, Mrs. Moser, it is well 40 percent of the Austrians who believe this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan]] So so that Persilsche-moderate whitewashing is done Neither should you of the Austrians, and that should give you some thought. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Then we have to do something about it!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Rare line of argument!]] In the end, however, we are also discussing issues which are in favour, ladies and gentlemen. In the monthly period, we will discuss the need for the Federal President's office. We are discussing whether there were two members of the government less so, whether there were not 18 members of the national council. We are discussing whether or not the Federal Council is pointless. And then we wonder if we sometimes explain ourselves to be of little value or even worthless that the population sees it that way. If we don't give each other the necessary respect, ladies and gentlemen, how can we expect the people who do this to be the media? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So let's start by respecting each other! Mr Pilz, I am certainly not very often or almost never of your opinion, but I do respect you and all the other colleagues here in the House too, and we should do so. [[Abg. Oils: Respect!]] Why does it work in the committees? Why is cooperation off-stage very, very good here in the High House and also in the Federal Government? And why is it then before running camera and in front of assembled microphones unfortunately God's no longer like that? Then, because I have already mentioned the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, we should not be surprised if the strongest medium in this country is written in a column: After the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is expected to pay his own service car, he gets the necessary salary for it! [[Abg. New builder: make his signature!]] – A skeletal who thinks that this could be in connection with the steadfastness of the President of the Federal Republic in the matter of professional army yes or no and also with a certain position towards his former party. – All of this we have negotiated, and there we are already a lot of ourselves to blame. The investigative committee is doing a good job. If, after five months, the first issue is finally ended, it is important and right. It has already been discussed about the birth defects parallelity with the judicial system and the investigation. We also experience once again that whoever enters the investigative committee as an information person is, of course, a debtor and transferred there before the survey begins. I cannot see a blockade with God simply because the majority of the minority does not follow. There is no such thing as a consensus commitment, Mr Pilz. [[Abg. Tadler holds a table on the abg. Dr. Bartenstein can be seen in Kazakh costume, with the inscription “Swift down!” in height.]] Let's not go down the initiative, which is: In addition to the necessary criminal and legal changes, a transparency package – a great opportunity for the next months – it also needs a code of conduct. Such a code of conduct, Mr Klubobmann's head has said, is everywhere in the economy. The Ten Commandments are certainly not. A code of conduct, which we also think is serious, can certainly help us along the way towards greater transparency and the fight against corruption. Let me conclude by saying that this “standard” survey also shows, Mrs. Dr. Moser, that it is not the usual game that the government loses and the opposition wins, no, they are currently all losers. In any case, this applies to four out of five parties and in reality probably also to the fifth. You should not be as the sorcerer who did not get rid of the spirits he called. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Yes!]] Mrs. Dr. Moser, as a very competent chairman of this Committee of Inquiry, you should not do it in such a way that you then have a third or perhaps a sixth laugh, namely not one of the established political forces in this country, but perhaps a pirate party, which has already been entrusted with up to 20 percent of the votes and which was quickly invited by the ORF on Sunday in the evening. The representative didn't even know he was the speaker of this party, and he didn't speak much else. – So, we really don’t have to do that in this country. For this we are too good, and for that we should respect each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3809	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3830	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! It's really weird: There's a broad consensus here. There is a real consensus here that it is to be clarified that a strict anti-corruption package should be tied up in a legal form, and there is quite a consensus of opinion that we want to strengthen the reputation of politics and the reputation and trust in democracy. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yes, on the one hand, full consensus, and I am fully in favour of it, and it is also my basic duty to ensure that people finally have confidence in politics again, that they also appreciate democracy again, that they do not protest and scoff at the tribal table somewhere, and then do not even go to the vote or just pick up protestary white or otherwise. No, we urgently need confidence in democracy and confidence in politics. - Consensus, yes. Only: When it comes to how we make it, everyone may fight each other at once. There is only one common way to do this, and that is what ÖVP heads of state tell us. As the Upper Austrian, I may quote the head of state Pühringer, who says: Yes, we have to explain, we have to find out, then we have to go to work constructively. Today, too, Mr Klubobmann Kopf said that it is the task of the Committee of Inquiry to clarify and reorganise the various painterries of the government and the execution, also in the cabinets, and to go to the restitution. – You said that! Only, Mr Klubobmann, can I also point out that there is a unanimous decision in Parliament, taken on 20 June. In October 2011, on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry, and The unanimous decision also states that "the transfer of payments to politicians and those related natural or legal persons as well as – directly or indirectly – to parties" is to be clarified and detected. – That's what we did on the 20th. It was agreed in common on 1 October. And now it's not going to happen at once? – How are people supposed to understand this? The Joint Decision is about to do this. You too were with your voice for it at that time, as were the entire ÖVP. And now, all at once, it's not going on anymore? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is the reason – and this is my answer to Mr Bartenstein – for the results he has rightly quoted. The reason is that on the one hand it is said that we are doing something while on the other hand the announcement is not implemented. I can ask you a whole litany of cases where promised, but not implemented. And it's about really telling us everything in the sense of a constructive rework, then taking the step of reparation and finally making the re-start in the form of new, better laws. It is also important to clarify once again, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP: How was this in September 2006, when postal shipments were distributed throughout the country and advertised for the wide-ranging broadband connection? – Yes, I am in favour of broadband being available throughout Tyrol and other federal states. But we would also be interested in the extent to which this circuit was financed or financed by the ÖVP post office. That's a very simple question. It is about the Enlightenment and the mission we have given each other together. - That's just one chapter. I am also in favour of treating the colleague Hakl in a serious way, so to speak, in the sense that you will examine more precisely whether this really was her personal. Maybe she wasn't! It's only been put in the media room. We are in the committee to do this, and we have the mandate of all parliamentarians to really examine it in detail. But we can't do it if we can't load the people. That's the problem, quite simply. And we would like to help all, so to speak, their reputation to restore their reputation, in the sense of what many previous speakers have said, but they do not let us in part. That's why I'd really like to ask: Let us return to a group leader's meeting and let us systematically open it up. We are now planning to address a new issue, item 2 of our investigation mission, namely, the question of BUWOG painting. And I don't see it that way – and I'm going to be really emotional, although I'm trying to control myself a lot otherwise – that you're dealing with a cargo thickness on this issue 2, which the Republic has cost up to a billion. I mean, this is a real asset loss, you just need to read the Court of Auditors' report. I have now spent the week with the more detailed file study and I can remind you: That was the biggest real estate sale in Europe at the time! Europe wide! So these are really dimensions. And if we break this main causa, which was originally the starting point for the Committee of Inquiry, over the knees, so to speak, by misplaceting the loads and starting wrong, we have just shot a single door again, and exactly where Mr Bartenstein was also referring to the quote from the article of the “standard”, namely distrust, loss of confidence in the population. I do not want to do that, we cannot answer that, and I am just saying that we are also starting a restart in the committee of inquiry and once, as it were, we are setting up certain queerels ad acta. – A personal remark: It disqualifies every person in public if they behave unqualifiedly. I have so much confidence in the public judgment. I do not need to break the staff over someone, no, but we have to go back to the consensus table, to a serious work-up, because that is what we have decided together and we are also guilty of the population. It is also important to bring to light details that will protect individual Members. And that's what we're talking about: We do not want in general the further dequalification of politics, not this self-shattering by mutual pouring, but we now finally want to work on the reform package. And there I become slightly suspicious, because I know the promises from the past. I have your word in the ear, Mr President, in the financial committee in September three years ago. This was about banking secrecy, and we Greens gave you the two-thirds majority so that we could finally shape banking secrecy in such a way that people can really get to the tax figures. In addition to you, the then Vice-President, Mr Pröll, and you promised us three times - I asked for extra - high and expensive, the Committee of Inquiry will have a minority right, as there will be the corresponding reform, just as there should be the reform in the convolut concerning investigations by the Court of Auditors, in the control powers of the Court of Auditors. – The latter was redeemed, the first not. How does this promise look? – This is the problem, and this is also the background to why people no longer have confidence, why you can argue with these 8 percent, Mr Bartenstein. And that is the responsibility of the majority of governments! I can't say it any more. We are ready to do so, we have often helped to create two-thirds of the majority. They promised us reforms for this. A lot was promised, but little was settled. In the same way, it is in the decision-making of the Committee of Inquiry that: The investigation of the whole currents towards party financing was decided, and these promises have been settled so far – I am still optimistic – not yet. We want to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3933	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e3955	High house! What is today's special meeting for? – The special meeting on the initiative of the BZÖ, the Greens and the Liberals, the three opposition parties, has become necessary because you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, understand the Enlightenment according to the Floriani principle. It must be clarified in the painting by all politicians, mainly, not their own. – That's exactly the answer you signal and the one at this time, 10th. April 2012, in the history of the Republic of Austria the wrong answer is. This land is indeed at the crossroads. Over the last 50 years, we have experienced in recurring periods scandals that have set up a system: 30 years ago “Lucona”, “Noricum”, ten years ago – because the Member of Parliament believes that scandals are an invention of the years 2000 to 2006: no! – BAWAG, “consumer” pleite, the so-called Praschak suicide. – I don’t want to remind anyone of his own past and guilt. That is why we are on the way, because this committee of inquiry, which we have unanimously used, decides whether there is ever a free policy in this country beyond corruption, or whether we are doing what you are trying to do in your panic and in your fear, namely this committee of inquiry, de facto. If you prevent important witness loads when you rode around, when it comes to covering the recovery between politics, corrupt politics, corrupt economy, corrupt administration, then we are in an area where people will not only turn 80 percent or 85 percent away from the politics of this country with shudders, but to 100 percent. And you of the EIA are actually assuming that people are just turning away from this policy because there is the Investigation Committee? – That's the culprit! People do not turn away from the reconnaissance who, while delivering the bad news, turn away from the perpetrators in a number of ways. Because in Austria, we need an anti-corruption investigation committee with eight blocks of topics at all, is the fault of politics and not of those who want to carry out daily information in the interest of the Republic of Austria, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Humorous people in this country think we don't need new lobbyist laws, for the ÖVP is enough § 278 StGB, formation of a criminal association, from the Mafia paragraphs. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – No, no, no excitement! – In the eyes of the Austrian People's Party, the animal guards who were persecuted precisely because of these mafia paragraphs were also a criminal, mafia band. They had to stand in court because of your policy on the mafia paragraph. When it comes to clarifying own structures and persecuting criminal law, as we have just seen, one becomes extremely wretched. Some humorous and benevolent people believe that we do not need a lobbyist law or a code for politicians in this country. - That's right, too. If you, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps also characterized by the Easter holidays, wanted to take a few commandments back to heart: You should not steal!, You should not lie!, You should not desire your nearest good!, then we would certainly not have many scandals, including the Austrian People's Party, which, like an alphabet of corruption from A to Z, move through the media landscape in this country. A, B, C, D, E, F, G – to Strasser, Ranner, Grazer ÖVP, all areas that are bad, all areas that are enlightened and need to be given a consistent information. Ladies and gentlemen! Before it becomes necessary to convene a further special session of the National Council, which once again a pitiful and pitiful picture of politics – and also of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! – if you take this special meeting to heart as a warning and let this committee of inquiry work back in peace – quality, fast and intense, but not in peace, without your party political influences, which are characterized by the fact that you only allow detection if it is not a party of the Austrian People's Party. This is not discovery, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the state-political responsibility that the founding fathers of the Austrian People's Party have written in your party's founding documents! They are on the best way, that of the Christian Democrats of Italy of the nineties, who had to be dissolved under Giulio Andreotti, because they have constantly pursued a policy in which they have seen satisfaction in filling their own pocket – today's example: shining into the bag – and not seeing the satisfaction of being useful to people in the country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Why sit You there today? What is your motivation to sit in this house? What is your vision to have been your ideal to take in the banks of the Republic in the interest of the population? Was it idealism or was it egoism to fill your own pockets? [[Abg. Hi, hello!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And this question, ladies and gentlemen, is not excited! – you should answer this question, and this question should also be answered by the Committee of Inquiry. And on the basis of the Committee of Inquiry, we should take three essential measures immediately: First: A paradigm change in Austrian politics, which does not allow such persons to continue to dress in deputies that insult this House and democracy alone with their presence. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Secondly, more stringent feed bans: And thirdly, Clear laws on party finances and also on the behaviour of politicians. This is what we, as BZÖ, are calling for in the parties' proceedings. We are already very far away with the SPÖ, which is quite blatantly on the road with a lot of insight and in view of its own scandalous past over the past 30 years. Of course, we will continue to call for this hour by hour, day by day, because it must again be part of the self-understanding of a functioning policy and democracy that is being worked in this country in the interests of people and not in the self-interest of politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4023	Mr Grosz, also to your address: I assume that the Members of this House have brought in their ideals here. I do not allow the mutual accusation of missing ideals! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4054	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. High house! To the address of Mr Jarolim once again: Walter Meischberger was excluded from FPÖ in 1999 and Minister of Finance Grasser was Minister of Finance from 2002 onwards. So don't constantly invent any stories in which you want to devour these people with the Freedom Party! I have to say that at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Always stick to the truth!]] I'm listening to the government today's loud business-wischi. The ÖVP feels persecuted by everything and everyone. The SPÖ is looking, pretending to be not caught in this system. And that's what you've got to say straight and clear: This system, which has established itself in Austria in the last decades, is a red and black system with orange colour tumblers. You really have to say that at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As the SPÖ is constantly being said that the opposition appears to be the government's intention to turn the investigation committee off: Yes, please, Mrs. Schittenhelm – she has now left the hall quickly – who has asked for it quite openly?, and through the flower also Klubobmann head. Also on the part of the SPÖ you hear this again and again. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: From whom? Tell me who it is!]] Don't let that happen all the time! Don't let that happen! You both have a vital interest in turning this investigation committee off because it is going to be unpleasant. There are countless examples, and I will list these examples again now, so that this may also enter the SPÖ's mind. We know of the more than €100 000 where the ÖVP has co-participated at the Telekom Austria money distribution machine with high-egger. We know of about a million euros, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, who made up the election aid in 2006. We know that this was a premise, even if you don't want to know anything about it anymore. That's a fact. But also the SPÖ has properly grasped these pockets of this system Telekom and Hochegger: One of the Telekom speakers: 100 000 €. We've heard this many times today, but you can't repeat it often enough. The Federal Managing Director Laura Rudas for an integration or youth project: € 20 000. We know about the statements of Hocheggers to have sponsored the SPÖ Vienna via Ali Rahimi. I do not really want to lose many words about the association of the Vienna workers' homes. But if you look deeper into this structure, you will probably turn away from it. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And, we know that too, the former head of communication of the Social Democrats, Heinz Lederer – do you still know that or have you forgotten it? –: [[Abg. May. Gaßner: We don't forget the people! You forget the people!]] Also more than a million euros from the bags of Hochegger and ultimately from Telekom. So you don't have to do anything here like you don't have anything to do with this painting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if we take a closer look at the red and black network in lobbying in the political scene in Austria, interestingly you will also find some green names: Lothar Lockl, Monika Langthaler. Have you ever looked at the Leader Advisors Group's home page? That's where it's depicted. There is your Lothar Lockl listed, including your Monika Langthaler! So don't pretend that these rulers or the green party have nothing to do with lobbying in Austria. Wolfgang Rosam, Dietmar Ecker – we have heard this many times today: Ecker once had a partnership with Peter Hochegger. The SPÖ certainly does not want to know anything about this either today. Other examples: Karl Krammer – even forgotten? –, Josef Kalina – perhaps this person no longer exists in the SPÖ’s world of thoughts; he was at least former Federal Councillor and Managing Director of SPÖ. Of course, these are all the facts you can't tell of yourself. And what does the government intend to do against all this madness? - Zero, nothing at all! You have to find out here. On the contrary: The Federal Party Observer of the ÖVP, who may wish to say goodbye below 20 percent, is putting the American party financing system in play here. He wants to make the Austrian party landscape smooth by private individuals, financed by the economy! This is certainly not where the FPÖ will play! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or the proposal by Mrs Bundesminister Karl, who ultimately called for a decriminalization of corruption with the introduction of a disversion procedure, and only by political pressure did he distance himself from this galvanized demand. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been carried out: We can say with fug and right that the Freedom Party, beginning in Knittelfeld in 2002, has carried out a self-cleaning process, which has finally manifested itself in the company of Heinz-Christian Strache in 2005. With all these dubious people, we have been “put off” and we can say that with fug and justice. [[Call the ÖVP:cheuch!]] We demand clear, transparent party financing laws, we demand lobbyist laws and more morality in the political landscape. This is what the people in this country deserve, and so the path of the Austrian Freedom Party is.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4165	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! My predecessor has tried to kill himself here, trying to sidetrack with a loose list of SPÖ functionaries, namely the corruption slave, which actually broke into Austria in 2000. I'll come back to that later. In any case: If you always think of such a reincarnation here in 2002 or 2005, then I can only say that it simply has to fail. Mr Strache, I now name only Scheuch or, for example, your painting together with Rumpold, and now I also call your old species Plach. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This list is a much more concrete and significant one in terms of corruption. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final investigation committee on Deutsche Telekom. There will be additional surveys, perhaps a dozen witnesses to listen to, and I very much hope that a unanimous decision will be taken. But it's already been clear what happened: Through several lobbyists, including political parties, a company has given grants to politicians – of course, associated with appropriate expectations, expectations that were partly fulfilled and partly not fulfilled. It's about orders to take over invoices, print cost contributions, election sponsorship from € 20 000 to beyond € 1 million, and it's about hunting invitations up to a Scottish hunting lock. By the way, we already know this from the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. It's all been clear and proven for a long time. Therefore: Let us not lose sight of the essential! Not every bock that a Tyrolean head of state shoots, you have to chase after Parliament – and this also applies when a colleague tries to attract a honey marketing for a beekeeper club. [[Abg. You don't have to laugh at that yourself?]] So don't be angry, but these aren't processes that exceeded a certain parliamentary threshold. It is crucial, Mr Strache, that we take great care of corruption in a broad manner, and that we quickly – and this was a general commitment at the beginning of this committee of inquiry – and without party glasses, we clarify political responsibility. That is the commitment of the Committee of Inquiry, and that is what the people expect of us. Consequences can be drawn – of course accompanied by the Examining Committee – and some are already known. The minimum that Deutsche Telekom can make is that it explains that in the future there will be no donations, no payments to politicians and political parties. As far as intelligence is concerned, one can still lie down in this company itself. Justice is active. Mrs Finanzminister, on the control of Deutsche Telekom – and that, as I believe, is a very crucial point: As the supervisory authority, the ÖIAG has really failed to do so, and unfortunately we have to say that. This self-renewing Supervisory Board, a provision in the § 4 ÖIAG Act, is urgently amended, for that already reminds a little of the picture: “Don’t say anything, hear nothing, see nothing”! This is an ancient Japanese philosophy, but not an appropriate code of conduct for supervisory councils. There are really consequences to be drawn. Mrs Finanzminister, I would really like to call on you to do something about this change of law in the ÖIAG Act, because the control has simply failed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, such a committee of inquiry also - but we all knew that - has difficult framework conditions, because informers can make a statement before the committee if they are also led as accused in criminal proceedings. That's clear: The investigative committee is not a law enforcement authority. There are sometimes false expectations in the public, and when a Mr Rumpold, Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly, or Mr Grasser marches, the big showdown is expected. And what happens then – unfortunately – in reality? – A Mr. Mensdorff-Pouilly refuses substantial statements, bluffs a little about hunting – and unfortunately still gets publicity stories! And this, of course, gives the public a false impression. Fact is, Mensdorff-Pouilly is a man who is around € 288 million – you have to imagine that! – was bought out of the U-port by a armaments group! What Mensdorff-Pouilly needs to know is immense! I can predict the following now: If Mr. Grasser comes with his lawyer, of course everything will be transparent, all clean from his point of view. Grasser will appear as a persecutor in the Committee of Inquiry, for he has revealed everything “eh”. But that behind the scenes there is a hard and brutal obstacle to any reconnaissance and in Liechtenstein everything is blocked, yes, that even there a lawyer marches into the corresponding premises, goes away with the files, and there is an urgent suspicion that there has been manipulated, that is the other side. That is why, Mrs Moser, it is almost no matter when Mr Grasser will take this show off in the committee of inquiry. But that doesn't matter, and that's not the basic problem, because: We will also achieve the findings in this way, about those who are not accused and who have to make statements about documents, e-mails, facts. That Mr Grasser has a scarce dozen phones and that all these company and foundation structures do not even have small prints on an A3 sheet, as well as the many contradictions, these are the things that will be decisive at the Causa BUWOG.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4269	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4291	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the U Committee, a major topic of the opposition parties is the load lists – and there you have to say: The creation of the load lists is a majority right. And majority decisions are something we are constantly implementing here in Parliament, and that should therefore remain democratic. I'm sure no one's going to disagree with me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There you promised that this would be a minority right!]] The majority are also transparent. More interesting, however, is how this “sacred alliance” of the three opposition parties comes about – or is that perhaps the case, because in the political framework of values, they are going step by step together and we will soon see Mrs. Glavischnig, how she helps Mr. Strache to place Moroccan proverbs? [[Calls to the Greens.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The government parties have decided on a dense calendar in the Committee of Inquiry and we are working out constructive chapters for chapters; we are now coming to the second issue. A real problem, however, is the simultaneous reprocessing of justice, the public prosecutor's office, and where the accused can repeatedly turn out to be in the committee – and then we have the problem of not getting any information on certain things and information. However, I also believe that we have differences of opinion on the content of this Committee of Inquiry. In any case: We in the Committee have the political consequences – and not to judge. Judgments still take place in this country, even though some Members here are very happy to act as judges. It is also interesting to see with which language some Members speak in connection with the Committee of Inquiry. I think a quote from Mr Petzner in today’s issue of the “standard” shows this. This is: “The cancer of corruption has formed many metastases and the U-committee is opposed to chemotherapy.” It may be that for you, Mr Petzner, this is a metaphor, but that is precisely an example of how politics is done at different levels. Then: If you're talking about "crowds", that's what happens to your political representation. When we talk about it, then on a health issue, i.e. on issues relating to people. And I can only tell you an example from my home in Lower Austria, where we create something for people in Vienna's Neustadt with a cancer research center, with MedAustron – and not for the theatre's sake. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But that presupposes trust – and with such a cheap show the confidence of citizens in politics is lost. However, politics in Austria is not opposition scandalous for 183 loaded with media support, but that is much more: These are the officials at national level, at municipal level, the local officials and also the individual members of all the parties represented here who work daily for politics in Austria. Who will shape the image of the parties? Who shapes the image of the parties in the place? Who is the neighbor who works politically? And who shape this image in the constituencies of the citizens? – All those who work in politics. That is why we have all our responsibilities. And on that, my question: Why does a Peter Pilz sit in a Vienna social apartment, although 26 000 Viennans and Viennans are waiting for such an apartment?- Oh, my God! Is that political responsibility? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the greens.]] Why does a Mr Petzner go on without a driver's license, even though he was taken off for speedy driving? Is that your political responsibility? [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: The clubman of the Vorarlberger ÖVP travels drunk through the area!]] In the Committee of Inquiry, we must continue to work on matters: not scandalize, but open up and draw conclusions. We must develop rules on the subject of party funding, the field of work of MEPs, lobbyism, which can be understood by everyone, because then we have the opportunity to regain confidence in the citizen. But if single Members continue to lead this theatre, they will judge themselves – and the really guilty will remain unlit. If your goal is the active destabilization of our democratic, political system, then you will continue to do so, but we will resist – no matter how many National Council special meetings will come. Respect for each other and fairplay in dealing with each other, then we will be treated with respect again.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4399	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4436	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If there had been a need for evidence that the Committee of Inquiry had to become a minority law both in its establishment and in the resources of the investigation, it would not have required this peculiar predecessor of the ÖVP. It is only necessary to look at the proceedings in the committee itself. You have once again provided this proof, and we will finally come back to why the Committee of Inquiry needs to become minority law. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That was a confession, this speech!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thank you for the introduction: In reality, this was a single confession of the ÖVP-redners in the direction that this way will also be unstoppable. But the way must go in one direction, where the direction shows and shows quite different things. Of course, this is about a restart in the Republic; of course, it is about regaining confidence – well, of course! But we will no longer allow you to present things in all kinds of media or other appearances in such a way that you co-criminalize those who clarify that contribute to the very first step necessary to organize this restart in the Republic at all, on a level on which you are yourself. It is now absolutely absurd and absurd that those who clarify are placed by you on a level with those who would have to be interested in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's exactly what it's about now. Again: Enlightenment and processing, that is the prerequisite for everything. First of all, this is the prerequisite for reparation; that will also win back confidence if we achieve something. We are very confident that this will succeed. Ms Fekter – over there she says: It must be possible, however, to recover from Telekom, which is mostly private property, but is mainly in the state-by-state influence, the tax payments that have escaped the taxpayers in this way, and secondly, that finally over the ÖIAG is ruled here. [[Abg. Wheelers: Mostly mainly!]] They are the ones that manage the shares. There must be at least that. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Thirdly, Even more important – in the result, and this will have to be negotiated now – is a credible re-start, which leads Austria to get the strictest anti-corruption and, above all, disclosure laws – where they are concerned about party funding. That's exactly what it's going to be about. You see, and in all these efforts, a party is particularly cross-border. This is the only consistency we recognize. It's the ÖVP. They hinder the education in the committee, you obviously want to prevent those responsible from being really responsible for paying back something, and you are blocking and hindering this restart. This reboot includes: a party donation law that deserves this name; and – again – that the right to set up an investigation committee becomes a minority right. Klubobmann Head, Klubobmann Cap, you both signed this. What is worth anything in the National Council and in Parliament if this is not settled? Five times last year – we have shown you this – you have announced that each one will have a corresponding draft in the next two months, and that a few more times later this will be decided. They have become verbatim at least five times. This is not the case if we want to regain this credibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we stick to the point of party financing: It is also the mandate of this Committee of Inquiry, and the chairman has given it a presentation here: It is the party funding that needs to be looked at in order to organise this restart. Of course! And colleague herbs, because you've already made the robbers for the coalition partner: You can't talk about bagatelles. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] First of all, these sums may not be like a bagatelle as you believe – but it is about the principle: The citizens and voters must know who in this Republic pays which parties. It's just another confession: On the regular record that the ÖVP is finally to disclose how much money it collects from banks – it is not just about Deutsche Telekom – how much money it collects from other companies, how much money it even collects from those who in the most cozy way tax in Austria, their black money – “black money” is a funny expression in this context – parking in Liechtenstein and in Switzerland and then being co-financed by our Ministry of Finance – this is a relevant question: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] How much do you get from them? –, says party managing director Rauch: The ÖVP adheres to the laws. – piece of art, exactly those belongings reformed. This is a confession, because all of this is possible in Austria, according to Austrian laws: from banks, from corporations, even even from tax frauds, and to be paid for his policy. This is what must be an end – just as we can now play through the Telekom case exemplaryly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Just where it goes to the ÖVP, the Luke is being closed – I don't understand the SPÖ at all why it can do it there at all – especially when it comes to what ÖAAB has collected – therefore it is so important that the alliances disclose the donations; and also the countries – when it comes to what the Tyrolean ÖVP has collected for special election campaigns. That's of interest. When we look at an ÖVP post from the 2006 election campaign, a party post throw, this is about the Telekom, then the national councils Hakl and Gahr – quote – cheer: The Hakl and Gahr National Councils are pleased that federal funds for the development of the network could also be used. - Quote. Two pages of jubilee reporting, where the ÖVP is wonderfully presented, the Telekom is wonderfully depicted: Who pays all this? – You have to disclose this. And if we finally get to this point, which corresponds exactly to the investigation order, then you want to reject it by a majority. The previous speaker of the ÖVP was treacherous: It still governs the majority of the investigation committee. – Yes, if the majority prevents the Enlightenment, this is another proof that we have to make this a minority law – in the sense of transparency and disclosure and in the sense that we regain credibility. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] This will even be used to you, look at it! Easter was, penance, conversion – you know yourself there anyway; at least there, we hope. But it's really time that this was finally done.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4549	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4570	Mr President. High house! It is really a more terrible picture that some media have recently drawn from this country: Corruption, lubrication, corrupt politicians who are buying. I'm just saying one thing, and that's what I think, for everyone: There are personalities in all parties who are also really affected – there will be a need to clarify. the consequences – but there are also personalities in all parties who are not affected by it. I am opposed to the fact that the politicians in general are going to pour out the dirty dome in order to make political change and produce newspaper headlines. But we do not get along with this. I wonder what the added value of this meeting has been for the citizens so far. There are two government parties that block almost everything, and there are two opposition parties, who pick up the dirt cubes and shake everyone else again. What does the voters think when he sees it? – The voters say: I didn't want to. The voters want to be informed, he wants consequences, and he wants this stable to be cleared out in some areas in Austria. That's what the voters want. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that we as parties, as a committee of inquiry, cannot win anything politically. It is only democracy that can be won by democracy becoming more decent, people who have confidence again, even to us politicians. And we from the BZÖ – I think I can claim – have taken a step ahead: We have revealed everything that was revealed. We went with the files, which may have been suspicious, to the prosecutor. We have allowed all witnesses – unlike the ÖVP and the SPÖ. I have to blame you for not allowing the witnesses Pöttler, Rahimi, Drozda on the part of SPÖ or Habeler, Malaun on the part of the ÖVP, then you have something to hide, then you have something to emphasize to cover up. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that meets you very massively. Mr Bartenstein, you have given a good speech, but you seem to be sitting with the wrong group, because your behaviour does not correspond to what you said earlier. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Bartenstein, do you know that this afternoon's current survey, by OEKONSULT says, for which parliamentary parties it is currently particularly bad? Since you run from the ÖVP by a distance, with 71.1 percent it is particularly bad for the ÖVP, for the BZÖ only at 5.1 percent. So we're really real world champions, as good as we are at present, but that's just mentioned on the verge. Therefore: Give up your witness blockade! Make it like the opposition – clarify, clarify, clarify! – and go with us on the path of political renewal, otherwise you will also have to rebaptize the party names. SPÖ and ÖVP could then be called: ÖSVP – Austrian scandal cover party. You don't want that, do you, my reigns of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP? I also say: The investigation committee shall not be allowed to join the Kasperl Theatre. If witnesses there make fun of each other's photography, feel ashamed of acting there, without respect and without responsibility, then the cabaret strip, but not worthy of an investigation committee, is not worthy. This is rightly annoyed by the media, and this is also annoyed by the citizens who will punish all of us for doing so. Therefore: The only means against these scandals is the Investigation Committee. He makes sense, he has to go on. He must continue in the summer. We will still have to discuss this. Parliament's summer break is completely unnecessary, but also the summer break of the committee of inquiry, which is in the room, is unnecessary. We have to work until the last 7. At the end of the day, it has been completely completed and the consequences have also been drawn up. The consequences must be: a party financing law with full transparency, including including the inclusion of all fronts, a lobbyist law, which also allows you to go to work as a politician, but also to disclose everything, for whom and when and where you worked. We also need to turn back the party book economy massively. And then again, the representatives of the old parties of SPÖ and of the ÖVP, who have crowned the party book economy in the countries, in the communities where one is misusing with the press departments, are taking advantage of public newspapers, with community broadcasts where the parties are advertised – also at the expense of the state. We must push back massively the acquisition of the state and its undertakings by the parties, in particular the governmental parties. I say it again: The party book economy is subject to punishment in particularly massive cases. This means that we need a real political Easter plaster in Austria, and it has three components: strict laws which we must make in Parliament and which must be implemented, but also consequences in the parties. We don't need a code from the ÖVP, we need actions. We need withdrawals, even if the ÖVP is specifically someone, but also with the SPÖ, also with the other parties. The citizens want to see that too. And we need courts that properly condemn criminal acts and bring corrupt politicians behind castle and bars. Therefore: End the party book and friend economy. The knowledge would be there for everyone, only the action is missing, but we have to face these challenges together in order to renew Austria politically and democratically!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4671	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4692	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Widmann, you seem to have a seeing eye and a blind eye, because these are already waker words to divert from the largest scandals of the Republic in the years 2000 to 2006, namely those caused by the BZÖ and by the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] Mr Grosz says we're learning history. That is why I have also read with surprise the “standard” interview by Mr Petzner. As he says, I quote: “I may be the only one of the former shark companions such as Karl-Heinz Grasser, Walter Meischberger or Uwe Scheuch, who is not in the crime today with a foothold. I am proud of that.” [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: Quote completely! Quote completely!]] Congratulations, Mr Petzner. At any rate, back to the special meeting: It is living parliamentaryism that both the opposition parties and the government parties do not necessarily share the same views, but it must not be that we drift into a circus or a show. It is already amazing, ladies and gentlemen, that just the loudest screams that have the most to hide. We have heard it many times, but we only remember the affairs around Telekom, BUWOG, hidden party financing, commission payments, financed election campaigns or names such as Karl-Heinz Grasser, Ernst Strasser, Hubert Gorbach, Walter Meischberger, Gernot and Erika Rumpold and many more. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The results of the investigation so far in figures – if they were not so bad, they would have to be broken directly on the tongue –: [[call to the FPÖ]] Between 2006 and 2008, a total of 1.2 million of Deutsche Telekom went to the BZÖ, which is €960 000 for the BZÖ election campaign plus € 268,000 to Hubert Gorbach's secretary. Also €720 000 went to the advertising agency Schmied, and possibly the BZÖ election campaign was also financed. But also the FPÖ, I have to say, has happened. [[Call:Heinz Lederer! 1 million €]] About €600 000 went from Telekom to the mediaConnection of Gernot Rumpold for four studies. After the payment of Deutsche Telekom to the full of Rumpold, the mediaConnection waived claims of €764,000 from the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Call the FPÖ:You have forgotten your group!]] It is also interesting in this whole discussion, as measured by two measures, and I think that there is a very different discussion : [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Why can't we load Mr. Rahimi?]] Let's remember the positioning around Niko Pelita! There was a whirlwind through the Republic. The opposition grew, in particular the BZÖ. I'm just wondering: Why don't you hear anything about it now when the partner of the BZÖ-Obmanns Bucher, Christine Lacner, receives a care post in the ORF? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go, come!]] [[Call BZÖ: That's wrong! Last class!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The voices increase that Lacner is also a key player around Hochegger, Reichhold and Gorbach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] And unfortunately, Mr Bucher is not here, otherwise we could ask him personally. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it, that's it! Pui devil! Pui devil!]] The BZÖ as well as the FPÖ are trying to represent themselves as clean parties, and please forgive me: These are the ones who have the most dirt on the stick. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A terrible person!]] – This too, ladies and gentlemen, shows some things: Mr Westenthaler has just said: “a terrible person”. Mr President, there has been nothing lost here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the BZÖ:Last-class! Under every level! Pui devil!]] The morning survey of Monika Langthaler will certainly become interesting. We're here to explain perfectly. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you want to sharpen lifemates, or what?]] [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] We must continue to pursue corruption and political errors consistently. And it is not about organising a show, a media circus, but about the credibility of parliamentarism and the political system in Austria. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] [[Abg. Grosz: That's not even true!]] [[Abg. Petzner: This is last-class what you're doing!]] The U-committee will not be set up, but all the issues will be dealt with, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That is important, and that is right for confidence in our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e4962	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5003	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President, perhaps you could bring Mr Westenthaler back to the Council! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5038	Ladies and gentlemen! We still have four words. I would ask you to make so much more of a condition and to have a valuable language both from the speaker's desk and from the plenary. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grosz and Mr Petzner]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now we look at all the companions!]] Please, continue, Mrs Tamandl!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5077	Values Minister of Finance! Dear other members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it somewhat strange, which has now been said about Mrs Steßl-Mühlbacher: Pui devil, unnecessary and unworthy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A terrible person! A terrible person!]] I have to say quite honestly: I cannot imagine that the people who are watching here have a good opinion about politics, the acting that is being offered. This is not acceptable to politics, and that is unworthy of the House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We've heard a lot today. We have heard a lot about morals from Mr Klubobmann. – I just don’t think Mr. Scheuch is aware of the morale of his own office and his condemnation in Carinthia. I do not think that it is the way the Minister of Finance has been accused at the beginning of the day that, for example, the financial system would not check whether it is tax evasion. I can only say that the advertising agency Rumpold has issued €764,000 to FPÖ and has not been concerned about whether the FPÖ is capable of payment or not, but has simply carried out the claim. This is something I can say here, since it has already been discussed at a public committee meeting. In this case, the financial activity has already taken place. Mr Rumpold has already had to retax a so-called hidden distribution of profits. In other words, the financial sector is very likely to be evaded in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Pilz, who in a way sends a statement of the facts to the public prosecutor, does not want to wait for the prosecutor to determine whether or not he is not. Mr. Pilz sent a statement of the facts, called the Public Prosecutor's Office and asked: Did you get my case description? Then he says in no time, yes, it's already determined by the prosecutor's office. I simply think it is awful that you deal with colleagues like Mrs Hakl, for example. Mr Pilz himself always speaks of the dignity of the house, but he himself protects the dignity of this House in a way that we parliamentarians should no longer let this happen to us. There are certainly black sheep. But I assume that a very large part of the parliamentarians in this House are decent, and we should not let this be done by Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Moser, you said it today, and I very much appreciate it. They are really excellent in chairing the Committee and you are not always easy to do. You don't always have it easy with self-acting colleagues who grinned Stefan Petzner. He is also one who does not always make it easy for the President-in-Office. [[Abg. Grosz: The ÖVP is the pattern boy!]] Mr Pilz, however, does not always make it easy for the President-in-Office. I simply believe that a serious investigation and a serious investigation are also a serious question and a serious deal with each other. If Mr Pilz said at the last committee meeting after a call from Mr Hornek, we should keep the accused's mouth shut, I tell you that this is going too far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Rosenkranz and all those who were there today – many who did not sit in the committee – were then dissociated by Mr Rosenkranz and said that he did not understand at all that Mr Pilz, if he had neither the public nor a headline for tomorrow, would make this unworthy lump-sum condemnation against our colleague Hornek. Mr Rosenkranz, I have to say that I am also very disappointed that you are putting yourself in a political bed today with the self-accompanied actors in this special session. I would have expected more of you, because you are probably one of the oppositions who really wants a serious Enlightenment, just as we want it from the government parties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5164	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 3 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5185	Mr President. High house! It is already significant when you see how the SPÖ is acting here at the speaker's desk, when you accuse a clubman of sifting and his ex-lifemate is working for a job. If you no longer have a politician as a friend and are not allowed to apply for a public job, it has snowed far down. Then we are close to Communism. That's where you want to go, we don't! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is already significant that a party such as the ÖVP must impose a code of conduct; Mr Kopf is always talking about morality here. – How should it look in this party, how must it be that one has to resort to such means? Should there be dark machinations around black money in black pockets – we have heard that Mr. Klubobmann does not want to be involved – so be distracted from misbehavior in order to dry the swamp in the ÖVP/SPÖ government? This has already been tried by a Federal President. He didn't succeed. It will not succeed this time either, you can see how it is going to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the investigation committee is about to be turned off now, as the corruption affair is over against ÖVP and SPÖ, is a clear sign and not a coincidence. Let's take a look at the ÖVP, this moral party. A little bit on the inside! There is a certain Mr. Strasser, former Minister of the Interior, who should have written on the cards in his Group of the Right and Order, a demonstration politician of the ÖVP in the EU at that time. We've all seen on the television screens what people think of morals, how these rulers behave. If there is to be light on the public authorities' radio, where this Mr Strasser is involved, then the investigation committee should be turned off. Or the BUWOG affair under Minister of Finance Grasser, then ÖVP Finance Minister, where these accusations all arose, then brought under a bowl from the FPÖ. During this period, all these things have happened, which are being blamed by the judicial system. The ÖVP's intention is to shut down this investigation committee, which is intended to inform. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it's done! Then the colleague Amon with 10 000 €. This is presented by Klubobmann Kopf in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” as Lercherlschas. This is where the ÖVP goes according to the Floriani principle: Dear St. Florian, spare my house, ignite’ dear others! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] We have also heard it from Mr Schmuckenschlager, as shown here with your finger on other politicians. You've got the dirt in your own box in there. Look at Vorarlberg! The clubman of the ÖVP in Vorarlberger Landtag, his sign coach of the Bregenz Handball Club sponsored by A 1, caught with 1 promille alcohol at the wheel. He played this down so much and meant he had only a little drunk, just two axe and three small beer. Ladies and gentlemen, once again you can see what morals are like. The ÖVP has played it down as a small mistake you have seen. The Lord's breakfast has felt affluent and has no bad conscience. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have no conscience! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's why you want to turn the investigation committee off. That's why you're doing such a theater here. Pui devil!, I can only say.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5266	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5288	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the house and on the screens! I think that the anti-exhaustive investigation committee, which deals with the years 2000 to 2006 in the first phase and the inconsistencies relating to Deutsche Telekom, is working very well, not least because of the chairmanship of Mr Moser. I have to say quite honestly, although it is a very serious issue, the Committee of Inquiry is working more objectively and more contentiously than here. And if we draw the lessons from the Committee of Inquiry and ask ourselves why some people are so misguided, then I have to say, it is on the one hand on the results that are now being produced. But it's also because we're making an unworthy show here. I am of the opinion that strength expressions such as “mafious party” – I am not the ODP’s mandatory defender – have really lost nothing here in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since this committee of inquiry is working so well, I do not think it is a good idea to think about turning off now. He has taken place to the painters to clarify and identify links between obviously corrupt managers and state-of-the-art politicians. This is not about red, black, green, blue, orange, but about restoring confidence in politics and democracy in general. This should be our common goal in order not to miscredit the profession of politicians. We know that there have been cash flows in the direction of BZÖ at the 2006 National Council election. We know that there have also been payments towards FPÖ. We looked at this at one of the last meetings. That's what it's all about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mr Grosz, if you and your party colleague Widmann, whom I very much appreciate, sit down and talk about party accounting, I will now give you an example. Please listen carefully! 2004: General comparison Rumpold, FPÖ. At the same time, a payment flow, starting with an order that is oral – how could it be different at Telekom? – to which mediaConnection is granted. It'll be until June. Suddenly, there is a ban on Rumpold's claims, because this order has been given by Telekom. This is about €600 000, orally commissioned, four studies, no results – as in many other cases at Telekom. Only the cover sheets can be found. This manager – and we are now in the party book economy, Mr Widmann – has not done this in vain; he has been rewarded by the Minister most personally. He was appointed Managing Director of Postbus GmbH a few weeks later, with Gorbach saying before, that is my husband, he has already promised him the job. That was the manager who was stumbled over a strip affair because an employee of him paid with the company credit card in the strip-local. I would like to say a few words about ÖIAG. We have located a massive inspection failure on the part of the ÖIAG. At the 2004 Supervisory Board meeting, in those who followed the course manipulations, for example, Director-General Heinz Sundt tried to explain the price leap. Obviously, he was able to convince Michaelis at the time. But on this point, and facing the situation of the file, Michaelis has to admit whether he, namely, Sundt, has been truthfully informed: I guess that's what it's going to be. And on demand: According to today's knowledge, he has not answered truthfully. Now it's about drawing the lessons. On the one hand, our political working style here in the house: objective in the committees, really not worthy of imitation here. The issue of ÖIAG is that we need a new ÖIAG law. On the one hand – Mr Herbe has already mentioned it – it must not be that the Supervisory Board always renews itself, and on the second hand, there is a strategy missing. As the owner, we have the Federal Minister here today. We need a strategy that will continue in the future in the ÖIAG companies, even in view of the forthcoming possible enemy takeover by an investor. In total, the lessons must be learned. The Examining Committee shall continue to work. Let us take the results seriously and draw the lessons from it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5364	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5387	Mr President. High house! In principle, of course, I also have a lot of transparency, of enlightenment, of all those things that are being conjured over and over again. Of course, I am also shocked at what was once possible, which was done earlier, because it was possible. That too shocks me. Yet – and this may surprise some – would be a great deal to me if this committee were to come to an end as quickly as possible. I am not concerned with concealing anything, concealing anything or hindering any clarifications, but with me that this committee is doing something as it is now, which, in my view, cannot be in our interest. You have to imagine one thing: Every day or at least every second day, when you turn up “time in the picture” in the ORF, a new name comes on the tapet, and it says again: A politician is corrupt. A politician has once again served. The politicians are all corrupt and so on. Every second day, for weeks, for months. And it's supposed to continue for months now. Now I ask you: What happens when the citizen is constantly painted with a message and the message means: All politicians are corrupt!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's the message. I guarantee you one: At the latest in a few months, he'll believe it. And for those who do not believe, an example: Imagine, there are doctors in Austria – purely hypothetical – who are performing operations out of financial interest that are not in the interests of the patient. Imagine that there would be! Now you would hear every day in the media that a doctor was recently transferred that he had put his own or the interests of the hospital over the interests of the patient. Imagine that you'd hear that every day, over weeks, over months! What do you think happens? Do you think people think: Oh, again, was the doctor, Dr. Maier, the Dr. Huber the evil boy? - No! They'd be afraid to go to a doctor. Trust in the doctor would disappear. The same is true of politics. If citizens often hear enough that they're all corrupt here, then trust will disappear. That's why I took the example of doctor and politician. The doctor must prescribe pills, medicine, and the patients must swallow them with confidence. That means the patient has to believe that what the doctor tells him to do is good. Isn't it the same in politics? Don't we sometimes have to write bitter pills and hope that the citizen trusts us so much that he swallows this pill too? Do you believe that what is happening here has been done to create confidence in the citizen? On the contrary! We have huge problems waiting for us. We need to find answers from the pension system through the health system and all other issues, such as administration. These answers are only swallowed if the citizen has confidence in us. What we're doing here – I'm not talking about Enlightenment and Transparency, I want all of that too – is, we're putting another politician at the prang every day and saying, look, dear population, all corrupt sw – I'm not saying the word now. That's the problem. Now the question is: What are we doing? There are two ways: Either we extend this investigation committee and we really present every day a new politician who confirms the image of the population once again: All corrupt sh...! Or we carry out this investigation committee as compact as possible, see that if possible not too much comes to the public, make a final report and – now it comes! – make proper laws before, which prevent exactly what was the problem here. The problem was not that politicians have personally enriched themselves – I mean, there are, of course, very hard cases where you have personally enriched yourself – but in most cases we are talking about here, it has been about bringing money to the party funds. We all know, at least many here know that in the past the parties have always had an acute lack of money, which is likely to be so in the future. I know how it was in the past. Whenever elections occur or any major expenditure has been spent on the parties, one has become creative and has tried to raise money. That's not a secret. This has been done in the past, and this is true in the future, but not in such a way that you simply say: From now on, a ban is to be imposed, no party is supported or already promoted, but it must no longer receive any party donations. I'm for such a ban. I am in favour of a general ban on party donations. On the other hand, I am in favour of increasing the promotion of parties. That sounds a little dazzling now. I am even in favour of us taking over 100 million, taking over 100 million for the Austrian parties. That sounds very abstract at first glance and not very popular, but I say to you one: With these 100 million free purchases we could buy ourselves from the influence of lobbyists, from the influence of the economy and so on. In Austria, we have a system that is completely contrary to the American system. In America, a company buys a president. That's officially so. That means you know which companies bought presidents. That's true in America. You know that. In Austria, the promotion of the parties should not be so. This means that the parties do not receive private money from the companies, but they receive it from the taxpayer, and so to speak, the party is obliged to the taxpayer. But we have a mixing system, where the parties get money from the taxpayer, but also from the interest representatives, from the traders, from the companies. It's got to stop, it's easy. In other words, we need a general ban on party donations and on the other hand we need a ban. More promotion of parties so that the parties can get out of this promotion without going as a bitter to the companies. I've seen that in the past, too. That's really happening. The parties go to the companies and ask for money, of course without return. But a slug will believe, perhaps there may be a counter-performance. Who knows? And this creates these problems. Look, just like doctors, we need trust and we can forget the political office without any confidence. We can't decide anything here without people's trust. And people's trust is only gained if we allow maximum transparency to be exercised at party banks, in the revenue of Members and, above all, in the incomes of ministers. Only if there is all this transparency, if there is a ban on party donations, and if we provide the financial resources on the other hand, so that the parties do not have to be corrupted at all, because they do not need it at all – it is only about, if they do not need it, they will not do it either, nor about it, if it is banned and punished with draconian penalties –, only so We can move something positive. Then we can forget the mud battle right away, because one is also quite certain: If we throw dirt at each other, you won't make a difference out there. My father-in-law always says something he sees as a joke, but I don't think so funny. Every time he sees me, he says: You just have to put all the politicians in a bag and pick them up from the outside with a hit; you never hit the wrong ones! – This saying is meant as a joke, but it may be that some slowly believe it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's why I'm really looking for you. Let's stop the mud-slaughter! Let us see that we lead those who are guilty of a condemnation as quickly as possible! Let us then see that we are restoring confidence in Austrian politics, and above all we are making proper laws so that all that has happened cannot happen again in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5479	No one is reported in the word anymore. I'll close the debate. I would also like to draw attention to three communications. [[16:11:15]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-04-10-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00152_d7e5500	At today's meeting, the self-employed received applications for 1908/A(E) and 1909/A(E). Question No 11327/J to 11332/J has also been received. Finally, a question by Mrs Winter, ladies and gentlemen, has been sent to the President of the National Council. I announce that immediately following this meeting of the Scientific Committee will meet in the local VIII. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 19. April 9 a.m. and is convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
