ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e1841	Ladies and gentlemen! I hear the main committee has ended its meeting – and I therefore open the 175. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies Peter Haubner, Hornek, Mag are reported as prevented. Musiol, Grosz and Mag. Honey. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e1872	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is the Federal Minister for the Interior. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Maria Fekter. [[10:05:20]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e1923	In accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the establishment of an investigation committee concerning the emergency nationalisation of Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank, municipal credit Austria AG and Österreichischer Volksbanken-AG. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that the debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and the vote will take place after the end of the agenda. [[10:05:50]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e1950	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e1999	I announce that the session will be broadcast live in full length to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III. [[10:06:05]] Mr Klubobmann's head spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2031	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yesterday, in the debate, I blamed the Green Member Pilz for stepping up the rule of law and criminalizing unspoiled citizens whether politicians or private persons were present. I have not noticed any protest at the Greens, except for Mr Pilz himself. So I assume that the Greens share my assessment more or less. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday mushroom is not a single culprit with the greens anymore. The whole Green Group, with such ads in regional newspapers, has a Hatz against representatives of the government parties, a personal, individualized Hatz against representatives of the political opponent. [[Keeping a newspaper high in the direction of the Members' Series]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens are therefore politically dissident to the pranger. I believed that the pranger had long since disappeared from the picture. These ads, ladies and gentlemen, are an absolutely new base in the political debate! - I'll show you after. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I would have liked to ask Mrs Glavischnig herself if she was there: What's next? Do you have anything else in stock to make it go down even deeper in the political debate? For this attitude to political dissidents, I would have a relevant concept, but I would rather not call him, Mr Kogler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Instead, I would rather quote your former party leader Alexander Van der Bellen. In fact, there would have been no such thing, but he would have told you quite clearly what he said to others here before: They seem to be totally fucked up! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Madam President. Deputies for their voting behaviour – here Mrs Steßl-Mühlbacher, here our colleague Pack – individually to the pranger in advertisements, in newspapers, that beats the floor! I would ask you to address this form of human hatred in the next presidency, including the handling of tax money from the club, as the Greens are dealing with tax money here. The sender is: Green Club in Parliament. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Madam President, this must be a follow-up in the President-in-Office!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2109	For business treatment, Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2134	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is an achievement of the French Revolution that there is separation of power: Executive, legislative and judicial. [[Call the ÖVP: Sorry?- Oh, my God!]] It is a fundamental principle of at least advanced democratic states with parliamentary democracy that voting is made public in the plenary of the legislative body. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's just the other way around. This plenary session of the National Council, which is composed by the population as it is composed on the basis of democratic elections, is based on the fact that we have constituencies where you all - many of you should consider this - have an order. [[Abg. Wheelers: We don't need any instruction!]] And you have – and I hope: free conscience, free mandate – made exactly one year ago a decision – in your free conscience, as we still hope, that a committee of inquiry will be set up, which has many test subjects to deal with, many evidence issues, a decision which has been adopted unanimously here. I must remind Members of this because it corresponds to the truth, and the people and, above all, the electorate in your constituencies have the right to truth. You wanted to suppress all of this by your voting behaviour. – I have to exclude the other two parties, because they have not participated in this scandal, which means that a qualified majority by 50 percent plus a unanimous decision of the National Council has disavowed by the fact that certain audit chapters of this committee are no longer allowed to be processed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: A majority decision is a “disgusting”?]] That is your merit, and that is why it has to be made public, because 90 percent of the population wanted to continue the investigation committee. But that's what you've avoided, and now the voters are not even allowed to know! [[Abg. Is this the Rules of Procedure, Madam President?]] In fact, this would have heard a lot more in every medium than it is. This is what has been done here, and you can describe how you want, because – Mr. Head, hold it up once! – there says: “A voice for cover-up,” and that’s because a simple majority of red and black have failed the National Council’s audit mandate. You have to be responsible as the Federal Government, because you only use your Members on the spot more than voting in the National Council! [[Abg. Head: This is human hatred! Human hatred!]] But then the voters should at least know that you are being abused here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is the idea of the Enlightenment on the spot, and it must be possible and it is also true that the electorate will learn in the constituency how the Members you have chosen voted. This is not only right and reasonable, but it is also a duty to point it out.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2246	Before I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, on business treatment, I say: Firstly, let me say that we are in a debate on the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, and this also applies to the following debate, I should like to ask you urgently, not to hurt everyone in your choice of words. I should now like to put this very flat-rate at the beginning of the debate. Thirdly, I will, of course, comply with the wishes of Mr Klubobmann's head. The continuation of the debate is being held in the President – and not here. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2284	I would like to begin by saying that, when the Committee of Inquiry was formed, the then elected President Gabriela Moser of the Greens announced that she assumed that the work of the Committee of Inquiry would be over by about mid-October. That's it. The second is: There has been a five-party agreement, at a meeting of the Committee of Inquiry, which includes the signature of five group chairmen, i.e. all group chairmen of this Committee of Inquiry, where: The investigation committee is expected to end today. In this agreement there was also a long list of persons in it, and in this agreement there were also the points which were still to be dealt with. All of this has taken place, therefore, the Committee of Inquiry is properly finished today. And if there is no written report, then because not even the Greens have started to be an initiative and to present a report. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's wrong!]] And if there is no written report, then also because there has been no agreement on it. That means that everything has been done properly, as we have done, as all five parties have decided, and as the then elected chairman Gabriela Moser announced at the beginning. It has not been democratic that an application made by four parties was then not voted by the Gabi Moser! But there was no ads where the Gabriela Moser was then hanged out and where they said she didn't. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'll finish. What's not all right, that's if you're actually putting kumpanei in these ads with all those that have been presented in this committee of inquiry like serious criminals and where there are also legitimate accusations. This means that Members of you are here in the way that they have been looking for the kumpanei with or responsible for those whom we all have criticized together and where we all hope that the judicial system will take appropriate steps. That is unacceptable, and that is not worthy of the Greens!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2333	Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2360	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, we should also note and accept that freedom of expression exists in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You should accept that before. [[Abg. Head: Of course!]] How to deal with this freedom of expression is first and foremost the responsibility of the respective party. I am quite clear that it is also a bad style if you switch to the personalised ads paid by the taxpayer. I think that's a bad style. But how bad is the style, ladies and gentlemen, when a great billionaire travels to Austria and individual politicians buy out of our ranks?- Oh, my God! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] How bad is this style that we have to endure in Austria today? This is a situation before which – thank God, I am not worried, because that, ladies and gentlemen, must first imitate me: 500,000 € to get and say no! [[Call to the Greens: Everyone has his worries!]] One thing has to do! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are people in this hall who have been bought, and that is the great shame for our profession! We will now hold a discussion on this, and I hope that the political culture in Austria will not be carried to the grave under such circumstances.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2432	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2456	The fact that today's provocation, denunciation and also diffamation of the political competitor is in general an absolutely renouncing political style is clear. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Always good at it!]] You have to reject that, too, because that is the green method – I know it. For years now, we ourselves have experienced the fact that we are being associated with such human hatred. That's the method, and I say it's self-evident. And there is no way to discuss the style of these ads, because they are, of course, a bad style if you try to present every individual Member as criminal now. That must be rejected. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Cap, if you then accuse the green investigative committee chairman of her own opinion, we will be able to complete the investigation committee by autumn, and with the relevant investigational items, you will have to remember in the first place that, of course, all members of the investigation committee have assumed that all the items whose investigation has been commissioned can also be examined that all witnesses come and not, like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, are not prepared to declare themselves under the obligation of truth. Then it would not be possible to achieve such developments that you have caused most of the time by turning off the investigation committee with the present day. This is just as bad a style and also unworthy and equally criticised, and there you can't be beautiful talking about your behavior by putting others, if you're right, to the prangler.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2500	Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2518	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 126 minutes, FPÖ 113, Green 99 and BZÖ 95 minutes. The following statement was agreed for the duration of the television broadcast until 1 p.m.: At the beginning of the debate, the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, Dr Walter Rosenkranzvom, will refund the rapporteur's place from a 20-minute oral report. Debates of the European Parliament Actual corrections are only called after the end of the television period in ORF 2. In accordance with Rule 57(7) of the Rules of Procedure, I would also propose that the speaking time of each Member should be limited to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:21:27]] 1. Point Report pursuant to § 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the activities of the Committee of Inquiry on the clarification of charges of corruption
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2570	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Since there is no written report, I would now ask the committee of inquiry to report to Mr Rosenkranz on the activities of the Committee of Inquiry. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2595	Madam President. High house! In the debate on the Rules of Procedure, the achievement of the French Revolution, the separation of power, and the fact that we are living here in parliamentarianism – the legislation – have been spoken of as a matter of political responsibility for the administration that is able to control execution. In addition, the third pillar, the case law which has to do with this issue in a very narrow, interwoven manner. Immediate end of line: I can't play judges here, that's not my job. We have not been a substitute court in the committee of inquiry. But to separate violence and precisely this point, where this style of ads has now been addressed: In the French Revolution, it was not only the separation of violence, but unfortunately for some the separation of head and body, which has often had a very negative effect on individuals – always. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] I hope that such a style can't come in any form, and if it's just the political prangler. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is almost on the day exactly one year since the National Council commissioned the setting up of an investigative committee, in relation to five members SPÖ, five ÖVP, three FPÖ, two Greens and one BZÖ. There have been a number of Rules of Procedure. In particular, there is an object of the investigation that was “to be completed” – as it has always been heard in the last few days, this “to finish. ” For the sake of completeness, I quote the subject-matter of the investigation: “1. The exercise of state supervision and control over the ÖIAG in respect of the participating Deutsche Telekom Austria Group and its participations from 2000 onwards with a view to, inter alia, the performance of payments without a traceable consideration, e.g. the activity of lobbyists, consultants and intermediaries, as well as related payments, c. the transfer of payments to politicians and those related natural or legal persons, as well as, directly or indirectly, to parties, i.e. the random interconnection of parties and companies in the acquisition of foreign holdings (in particular: Mobile Bulgaria, MDC Belarus, Mobtel Serbia), e.g. the manipulation of exchange rates and f. the direct influence on the development of laws and regulations in ministries by the Telekom Group and related payments. This influence of laws and regulations should also be examined in relation to the operations in the ministries concerned. 2. The sale procedures of the estates of the state-owned housing companies (BUWOG) and of the BIG’s dwellings and the hirings of courts in the ‘Justice Center Wien Mitte’ and the various financial authorities in the ‘Terminal Tower’ in Linz, with a view to possible political influence, the involvement of external consultants and intermediaries, and other discrepancies and clarifications of political responsibility, 3. The activities of lobbyists, consultants and intermediaries in the field of the Federal Ministry of the Interior with regard to the operations relating to the award of contracts for the government radio network, the subsequent termination of the contracts and the new award, as well as the related payment flows including any – direct or indirect – payment flows to parties, 4. Information on the switching of ads by companies or organisations close to the state or within the sphere of influence of the Federal Ministries (e.g. ÖBB or ASFINAG) on instructions or as a result of other direct or indirect influence by members of the Federal Government since 2006, 5. Check of direct circuits of ads and/or displays. the introduction of other media cooperations by the Federal Ministries since 2000, 6. The attempt to loosen the gambling monopoly during the term of office of the Minister of Finance Mag. Karl Heinz Grasser and related political interventions and payments by gambling companies, 7. The applications and award procedures relating to citizenship grants in accordance with § 10 para. 6 StbG in the special interest of the Republic, taking into account, in particular, the exceptional benefits provided or expected by the persons concerned from the year 2000 onwards.’ This has now been heard very dry, formalistic, but there are corresponding short descriptions: The Telekom area, BUWOG area, then the whole thing gets a little more interesting. A statement on the area ‘1’ is received at the same time. e. the manipulation of exchange rates’: There has been no perception that anyone from politics has taken influence. The fact that something has taken place in the management of Telekom and that this is a question of supervision by the ÖIAG, which is ultimately also located in the Ministry of Finance, is probably clear, but there is a criminal procedure where the decisive managers and helpers have already been charged. I think the procedure should start this year. I now come to the points that have been dealt with, and I want to put that into two parts. There was an area of processing before the summer and an area after the summer. I come to the area before the summer: many days of committee work, many informational staff, how the Committee has set itself up from the outset as a working point of view: We start with the little wheels in the structure of this mechanism and then work on the big fish, on the heads, through to the top representatives in order to make it structured. That was a good way of doing this, and I think there have been some successes there. It should not be overlooked, however, that even in the field of telecoms from a certain point of view no further funding has been made, but by the majority of governments after the 14th century. No charge decisions could be reimbursed in agreement on April 2012. I particularly recall facts about ÖAAB or ÖVP Tirol. There were no more people who had been asked for to be heard. The previous agreements in the Telekom investigation committee have shown that Deutsche Telekom has officially commissioned dubious studies, which in many cases are not detectable, but which have been used, in particular, to finance political parties, politically related companies and organisations, as well as individuals in the political field. An important role in the Telekom system has been played by Dr. Peter Hochegger since at least the end of the 1990s, who for the time being worked as PR consultant for Deutsche Telekom, but has been acting more and more as a lobbyist over the years. Through the high-level company Valora and through issued bills, huge funds have been passed on from Telekom to various recipients. For the most part, studies and tasks have been awarded without written contracts. The performance of tasks, studies, et cetera, are either limited to very short, non-discoverable, or have been carried out from the outset only orally. The Deutsche Telekom also bought benevolently through numerous invitations for sports and social events to “important personalities and opinion leaders”. It has been shown that Deutsche Telekom has financed a large part of the 2006 BZÖ election campaign and also in 2008. It's about an amount of about € 1 million. [[Abg. Petzner: That's wrong!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Not least because of the Committee of Inquiry, Deutsche Telekom has responded. The Supervisory Board of Telekom has commissioned BDO, I quote: “an examination of the period 2000 to 2010 with the aim of informing and preventing deaf actions (in particular advantage and infidelity) in the Telekom Austria Group.” If the files available to the Committee of Inquiry and the statements made in the Telecom Committee of Payments amounted to around €10 million, the report on the special forensic investigation bookkeeping Valora/Hochegger.com at Telekom Austria should be much more. Among other things, media reported €40 million. Result of the BDO: Telekom gave a margin of more than 100 percent, in other words: Hochegger was always given much more money than he needed to fulfill the specific order. “We were able to see that the booked sales from Telekom Austria to Valora for the period 2004 to 2008 amounted to a number of times more than the booked sales of the Valora with the creditors in connection with the orders for Telekom Austria for 2005 to 2009.” So far, the investigations are based almost exclusively on the statements of the chandelier Gernot Schieszler, the former Board of Directors of Telekom, as well as on the findings of the Telekom Special Inspector Deloitte. In the previous year, Deloitte examined all the high-level businesses with Telekom. The result, the so-called “Project Lieds”, cast in two reports, was 16 Valora orders worth €7.55 million, where no detectable performance was compared, and striking services from Hochegger.com amounted to €2.5 million. In this context, the question was raised as to whether what is commonly referred to as the purchase of law actually took place in Austria. This will not be said because of the statements made by the Committee of Inquiry, but there are clear time and economic approaches with different regulations. In the Universal Service Regulation, it was true that experts from the Ministry, who are in itself unwarranted, have truthfully declared that what was done there was something good and would certainly have come without any counterflow. However, the fact is that those who act and also ministers, especially after they leave, have been taught accordingly. It was also striking that the investigation – and this is important for political responsibility, namely for the control of the ÖIAG, was also made important, as has continued at Telekom – a limit of €50,000. Everything under it was not looked at. It is only very clear from the files that Hochegger has given a lot of small orders, and when you count them together you come up with a much larger structure, which you have not followed within the company. Payments to SPÖ and ÖVP are open and unexplained, especially on the question of the rental of the Burgtheater during EURO 2008, where the Burgtheater was used by Deutsche Telekom but not rented. The tenant was the SPÖ-nearest and owning Echo publishing group, where there was subsequently also personalrochaden. Unexplained accusations are also made concerning SPÖ-near carpet dealer Ali Rahimi, who charged Hochegger in his public prosecutor's agreement, but also in the investigation committee itself. This is about the call to support the SPÖ election campaign in Vienna with €20 000, and it is also about the question of a sham study that should be given. However, no information was available on the basis of the majority decisions. At the ÖVP it was the accusations regarding financing in the ÖVP Tirol. It would have been interesting for the information person Malaun, but also in the direction of a pressure cost contribution to ÖAAB would have been Tweraser to load – was not carried out. As regards the FPÖ, there was a suspicion that there was a study commissioned by the Telekom employee Gassauer and handed it to the advertising agency of the BZÖ or FPÖ-like advertiser Rumpold. This should, the suspicion, be counter-financing for the fact that Rumpold has made a discount in the EU's election against the FPÖ. In the Committee itself, both persons, Rumpold and Gassauer, have truthfully stated that one has nothing to do with the other. The Committee cannot be deduced from this, but a procedure for the administration is pending on the part of the financial system which has not yet been completed. In the end – but later on – the Telekom East business was dealt with as well. The Schieszler dean is completely open, as no charge was made by the investigative committee, at the request of the judicial authorities. A word at this point: Cooperation with the judiciary was carried out by mutual respect, an attempt not to interfere with one another, because it would not have been in the interests of the Committee and certainly not in the interest of Parliament itself that criminal and criminal investigations by Parliament would have been hampered in any form. However, the judicial system has called for no loading of the gunman Schieszler. It is the first time that the procedural regulation has been offered in this form to clarify huge cases of crime, and the Committee did not want to intervene in any form. To Causa BUWOG: The Causa BUWOG, one of the largest privatizations of the federal times of Chancellor Schüssel and Minister of Finance Grasser, has been a case for justice for years. The BUWOG affair includes possible infidelity, illegal agreements and commission payments in connection with the privatisation of 60,000 federal apartments – not only the BUWOG alone, there have also been three other housing cooperatives. The trigger that developed a suspicion at all was the following: The affair came to light in September 2009 by chance. In case of investigations on the plea of Constantia Privatbank, auditors encountered an unusual commission payment to PR consultant Peter Hochegger and his business partner, lobbyist and ex-politan Walter Meischberger. The two acquaintances Grassers, one can even be described as a good friend because of their property, paid off as self-advertising and thus brought to light very dubious business events. There are three interesting points regarding this BUWOG sale. First of all, the selection of the investment bank that should accompany the entire sale. It was clear from the outset that such a large billion-height privatisation should be accompanied professionally. There were finally two bidders, the CA IB and Lehman Brothers. Although all the protocols argue that the CA IB has been best bidders and even a certain one – under the quotation mark, because it may still be there yesterday – “country match vote” has ruled that an Austrian company has enforced itself against Lehman Brothers, there was then, at once – one has to inform the Minister – a interruption of the respective organ meeting and one had to advise again. The information person Ramprecht said that the next day he was told by Ernst Karl Plech: The Minister wants Lehman. This was disputed in the following terms, they said: We have looked at the point awards again! and so on. Other things were carried out, so that at the end of the day Lehman Brothers actually came out. Interesting in this context is the statement of the CA IB board of directors Klaus Requat, who received a call from Karlheinz Muhr, a friend of the Finance Minister Grasser, who, before the award was given, told him: You won't get it, but if you want, you can join us as a subcontractor and participate in the cake! In order to avoid any dissatisfaction, the CA IB bowed to it and then did not challenge the award, although Requat said, in 24 years in this sector, including Eastern Europe, he had never experienced anything like it. That is, on the question of the investment bank, one has seen that it will be the right one – the first rescue parachute. Then came the question of the tender itself. It is striking that at these apartments the tenants were originally asked to buy the apartment themselves. There was a sales price of €1,132 per square meter after economic consideration. In fact, the apartments were sold at an average price per apartment by €16 000 or €594 per square meter. Where was this blurry in the calculation? There was then a bidder procedure where, in the end, the CA Immo Most bidder was at €960 million. At the end, however, at the Last and Final Offer, a consortium – the so-called Austria consortium, consisting of Raiffeisenlandesbank Oberösterreich, Wiener Städtisch und Immofinanz, the consortium leader was the RLB Oberösterreich, but the real-estate finance was very busy with the technical settlement – offered € 1.119 million more, which is 0.1 percent. The reasons for this were as follows: There you can see just how exactly and exactly it was worked on the offers that you really worked out the outside. An employee, Dr. Martina Postl, has said before the investigative committee and also with the law enforcement authorities: When she came to this crucial meeting, she had the impression that everyone knows what price to offer. – That's what someone from the bidder consortium says, which has received the award. The investigative committee also emerged – and it must be said that it was a survey of the investigative committee, which ultimately led the prosecutor to a new ferry – that an employee of the Ministry of Finance clearly said that Grasser knew the concrete figures from the offers. Knowledge Grassers is clear. Interestingly, there was from Hochegger the offer to the real estate finance, in which he said: Bind me, you will see, there will be no harm, you will get it!, and in fact, Hochegger has given the hint of real estate finance, Mr. Petrikovics, they have to offer 961 million €. This note had Hochegger from Meischberger, and Meischberger said in committee, yes, he had this information, but he didn't get it from Grasser. From whom he received it, he didn't betray us, and then there was a corresponding discharge. It is alleged that one has learned this from the ministry – or all the spats would have pewted it down from the roofs. The fact is: It was €961 million, and there was the surcharge for the Austrian consortium. In other words, that was the second rescue shield, Hochegger and Meischberger. There was also a third rescue shield. It was provided for in the Procurement Directive that each of these four housing cooperatives would be assessed separately, and there was an ESG based in Villach, the railway settlement company. The country of Carinthia, with the head of state, Haider, was interested and therefore said: We want to have a pre-purchasing right for this cooperative! This was granted, although the representative of the Ministry of Finance said: This must be done in the form of a notarial act! But between Grasser and Haider was enough to be legally valid, a telephone call and an appropriate e-mail. For the right advice, of course, the lawyer's performance was paid completely, only one has not done there. This has given some surprise to all lawyers and information persons who have come to the Committee of Inquiry. We see this scarce calculation that in this housing cooperative the price of the last two bidders is worth €20 million apart. In other words, you can reach 0.1 percent of the total amount, but this amounts to €20 million for a single cooperative. No matter what would have happened, if, for example, the country of Carinthia had drawn the pre-purchasing right, the Austrian consortium would have been the best, and if it had not – because the total amount was suitable for the Austrian consortium – it would have been the Austrian consortium. Since these €961 million are located on the table, the right of pre-purchasing was surprisingly not withdrawn. Interestingly, however, there has been such contact between the then Board of Directors of the Raiffeisenlandesbank Oberösterreich Scharinger and the head of the Kärntner state Haider about how and whether this pre-purchasing right should be exercised. It is clear that something has not happened in this entire bidder procedure – and in what way the criminal jurisdiction will still be clarified. I would like to say the following: Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser has said from the beginning that he takes on political responsibility. We don't know whether he was directly beneficiary or whether others exploited him – we can't figure that out, that might be the criminal justice – but information has gone out of the financial unit, some things have not been legally completed, there have been slutting, and there is political responsibility for that. But what happened to the commissions I mentioned earlier? – Immofinanz paid €9.6 million, 1 per cent of the purchase price, 7.7 million of which went on to Meischberger, the whole of it through letterbox companies and a giro account in Delaware in Liechtenstein, then these accounts were created under the names “Karin”, “Natalia” and “Walter” – that’s not me, unfortunately. Grassers and sheet argue that two accounts are assigned to them. That's the suspicion that justice has. We in the committee of inquiry know the criminal act that is being led here, we know the excitement for documents that are to come from Liechtenstein but do not come where there are appropriate court proceedings. At this point I would like to say: The Court of Justice is very precise and there are opinions in the files available to the Examining Committee, which say: This only makes a sense economically if it is precisely these persons who are the beneficiaries of this matter! Interesting in this context is the behavior of Grassers, who in itself always willingly gave information about everything because he meant that he actually had an economic advantage through this BUWOG sale of the Republic of Austria. One interesting thing was that after cooking this affair, Grasser had contact with Meischberger's lawyer and lawyer. He said he was there once, twice, because he wanted to know what was really going on, and so that he would know how to face the media. However, on the basis of the lawyer's list of costs in the investigation committee files, it has been demonstrated that the contacts were varied – even a joint flight from Grasser with the lawyer Meischberger to a asset advisor Wicki to Zurich is documented. These questions were raised by Grasser, referring to the criminal proceedings of the answer. It was a chain of coincidences, it said: The asset advisor Wicki met Meischberger and was his person of trust, and only when this affair broke out did Grasser and his friend Meischberger come up with the same asset advisor. They did not know that before; it was a coincidence. It is not the Committee's responsibility, but it will have to examine the criminal courts.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2685	Ladies and gentlemen, can I intervene very briefly? The rapporteur has a voluntary time limit and therefore has no right to be cut off. I just want to point out the time.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2701	Thank you, Madam President. We come to the fourth point: ADONIS. There was a project: All Blue Light Organisations, all Ministries, all Land Organisations and the like should be connected to a radio network. In the Committee of Inquiry, there has been the information person Tengg, who has actually summarized very well what happened. There was a catastrophic contract with mutual participation obligations, and Tengg finally describes why this project failed: The Minister for the Interior, Mr Strasser, did not have the necessary budget resources to do this project! Tengg indicated the obligations of participation. For example, the question arose when determining the radio mast locations, whether it should make the consortium of technology or the ministry. The Ministry says this is his right, and then master talk says: Then nominates some! – As a result, the Ministry means: Yes, at the borders all radio stations are to be installed at all border, police, gender and customs stations! – The operator's answer is master-talk: Yeah, it's okay, let's do it! – and they then insist that the Ministry of the Interior should not have it at all because it all belongs to the BIG. It is also possible to see with what dilettantism has been approached. Tengg then comes to the matter – I quote from the Stenographical Protocols of the Investigation Committee –: “We advertised here, but there was no commitment to succeed. It was perfectly clear that if this does not work or works late in the federal states, the Ministry of the Interior is liable for this 72 million annual disk. I suddenly noticed, hoppla, now it's gonna be fun to them when they see that this isn't going on. Since it started to give debilitating talks first, into which Siemens then went in directly and said that you could make it cheaper, but from there it became increasingly difficult. I also remember saying that in a conversation with Minister of Finance Grasser at the time that I happened to meet somewhere, so towards the end of April, one must give Minister Strasser more money, he has only 22 million.” 72 million requires it. Tengg further: “And Finance Minister Grasser, who was always left behind, has responded relatively aggressively to my terms and said: The one?- Oh, I won't give him a penny, because I told him before, if you don't agree with the heads of state before, and you sign it, no one's going to get in. They all lean back and wait as you starve at the long hand, especially your friends in Lower Austria." Time and again it has been tried to make this project bad and ready. Tengg continues – I quote again from the Stenographical Protocols of the Investigation Committee –: “So the story was built up, and I said that to Director-General Hochleitner at the time. Then there was a conversation that I remember very well. I had a lunch with Hochleitner, and, I think, at 10:00 a.m., Strasser and he met with Christian Konrad von Raiffeisen.” They were all involved in this project. Tengg further: “At 11 o’clock he already called me and said: Hansjörg, you're right! He just told me the story, says, yes, we talked there. At first, there was an argument that the Minister did not come alone, but brought his two adlates, which are already known here. Then, after the story of Hochleitner, Christian Konrad summarized and said: So I understood you gave an order that you didn't cover financially, and now you're trying to bite out the contractor under debt assignment! – Then he said nothing, ” – Christian Konrad zu Ernst Strasser. From the “color teaching” there is in itself no really great potential for conflict – and that means something, if so. The fact is that this project had to fail. It has been stopped on both sides in order not to put more money into the sand. In order to get out of this contract, the Republic of Austria, in the era of Ernst Strasser, has placed €30 million in sand for something that has not brought her anything and where she has not even been able to receive intermediate services! There is political responsibility there! Afterwards, another consortium was found between Motorola and Alcatel, at the beginning there was also the Telekom, and there were very interesting personal constellations with the former chief of cabinet Ulmer. With regard to consultant contracts – compared to the project ADONIS, the predecessor project – Tetron has increased. A detail at the edge: Mr. Ernest Gabmann junior, son of former Dutch head of state Ernest Gabmann, was an expert for the Federal Ministry in evaluating the offers, and he meant: Motorola and Alcatel is the better consortium. A year later Gabmann Junior was then the overall project manager of the consortium he applied for. I would like to say the following: There are several people who first gave up their expertise from the ministry and then settled at the corresponding company. [[Abg. Strache: Does Bundesrat Himmer play a role in that too?]] For Deutsche Telekom – which is also a detail on the edge, but it throws a significant light – it was important that they leave the consortium and only act as subcontractors for Motorola and Alcatel. Then the lobbyist Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly also comes up with the plan, years later, after Motorola and Alcatel also said to Telekom: What is the matter with you now, keep your commitment and pay for him as it has gone! A mosaic stone, a very plastic one, is what Telekom's board of directors Rudolf Fischer said: When Mensdorff spoke to me about it, I said yes, but we have to calculate it differently, send us a study of something and we will then transfer the corresponding amount of money to you! – €1.1 million for a study for the “Project Alpha” in Slovenia. In the investigation committee, an employee of Telekom will explain to us: This is my study, which I wrote on behalf of Deutsche Telekom, and now I see for the first time that the whole is printed on paper, MPA-Budapest, Mensdorff-Pouilly in Budapest, and there he has not done anything about it at all, but it has been recorded. To sum up, this means that amounts have been paid without consideration, and it will be interesting to continue to pursue – that will be Parliament's task – how the amounts of turnover tax, corporate tax will be recovered. There have just been payments that have not been made because there has been no consideration. To this end, Ernst Strasser did not express any relevant perceptions in the Committee. Then before the summer, a very small topic was discussed, namely the topic of gambling. In this case, it cannot be said that there is no doubt that a law purchase took place. However, there is a nine - page study that was paid €300 000 to the BZÖ advertising agency Orange. However, in an appropriate court case, it has been found that it can only be worth a fraction. There should have been no special expertise, because facts have been compiled from the Internet, and the file documents show that the It was also created during a weekend. In this case, the add-on had not been present either. This was the revision of the investigation committee until the summer, and it was very thorough. After the summer break, there was a business-ordinary problem with regard to the question of the Presidency, errors in the Presidency, then withdrawal demands, resignation of the chairmen – unfortunately God has also passed a great deal of time – and then only the five-party agreement already mentioned by Mr. Klubobmann Cap. I can say from my point of view that the agreement process was probably similar to that experienced by the Austrian delegation in Saint Germain, where the decision was put on the table and said: And that's the peace treaty now! Mr Amon says that there was no single person, except Muhr and Wirth, who knew that they would probably not come as concessions to the opposition. To explain the situation again: We were eaten together in the morning and we said: Yes, the three opposition parties will draw up a compromise proposal! This has happened, and while we have been sitting, the message comes from the plenary that a deadline should already be made with the next day. The government then submitted: That's it now, that's the plan! Are you going to join this, or are you staying at this deadline the same night? – That was the five-party union. The deadline was withdrawn with the next day, and then came to this load list, where all the parties are on it. I don't value anything now, but: No Jota has been amended by the proposal of the government parties. For statistics: On these topics, 18 persons were interviewed on three topics of study seven days; on the topic of Telekom East Business a person, Mr Mag. Martin Schlaef, who is led as an accused person; on the subject of advertising by the Federal Government two persons, Minister Berlakovich and AMA marketing chief Mikinovic; and on the issue of citizenship awards, four section heads who first informed us that they became section heads only after the investigation period and that they looked into a few files but found nothing striking. – That was essentially the succus. There was also the so-called affair Faymann. It has always been the talk that government members have been invited, namely State Secretary Ostermayer for SPÖ and Federal Minister Berlakovich for the ÖVP. I would just like to go a little further in constitutional science: The State Secretary is not a member of the government, and Dr. Ostermayer has not been elected as a member of the government, but as a former chief of the cabinet, who is now by chance the State Secretary – as many of the chiefs before. [[Abg. Strache: The Federal Chancellor should have been consulted as a former minister!]] At Telekom, at the BUWOG, at the TETRON government radio, the chiefs were key people from the cabins, but in the investigation committee we were refused a lot. I believe that this will certainly be recognized in the discussion. I would like to end by mentioning an unwarranted witness – we have to draw lessons from it as well –: Procedural attorney Hoffmann meant – he took a balance sheet against the APA – that there were positive effects, and he referred to several legislative changes. It is true that, from the teachings of the Committee of Inquiry, there have been two legislative initiatives on party financing and media transparency which are designed to improve and make the system more difficult. But Dr. Hoffmann also says that it is unfortunate that the order is not really finished – I quote –: “For example, after the summer break (insects, citizenship grants and Telekom East business) the topics had not been dealt with so thoroughly”, for example, there had been only a “low number” of information users. Dr. Hoffmann says that in some ways the surveys were conducted in the context of a fair procedure – and otherwise he did. To sum up, I would like to say: We have been able to clarify political responsibilities in the field of ministries. Yes, there have been errors in ministries. Yes, there has been money acceptances for party-related people, that is what it has. How worthy this will be, the criminal justice will be clarified. At this point I would like to say: It went over a year with this wealth of files, with this abundance also at meetings. It was a very rewarding task, but also a strenuous one, and in this effort it was not only the Members, but also the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, the staff of the clubs and the speakers who supported us – I am thinking especially of the services of the EDPS just before Christmas 2011. Since I spoke earlier about the division of violence, about the three forces, I would like to call a fourth violence, namely the media that have accompanied us very transparently. I wish this Committee of Inquiry – whether it goes further or not – and any other, subsequent Committee of Inquiry, perhaps in amended legal form, namely as minority law, all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2791	I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for his statement. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2846	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! The Committee of Inquiry, which we are talking about today, was held in this Chamber on 20 February. ==References====External links== October held its constituent meeting and over a period of almost a year, as has already been reported, loaded very intensively into 53 meetings 132 persons, viewed 1.6 million pages of files – only to get a little idea of the quantity of this job assignment. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore very much up to us, even though it is always called upon, that we should be very grateful to all the staff members of both the Parliament's management and all the clubs, to all those who have contributed to the fact that this volume of work could be handled at all. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Remarkable, yes! Very remarkable!]] However, I would also like to thank both lawyers very much. I think they really did an excellent job. We would have been able to save ourselves some discussion – I will then go into such a one – because I think I can say on behalf of many that there are top judges who have accompanied this committee, and it is their task to try to ensure that both the information and the survey are carried out in accordance with the law. Let me also briefly make some remarks from an organizational point of view! We had – and it was reported by the chairman – a very intense, very media-active discussion until summer. People are all known in the media, but it has been shown that there were some names that have been mentioned over and over again or that have been found in the files or on the individual topics, whether it was Hochegger, whether it was Rumpold or Meischberger, it has been passing through the committee for months. I think, however, that if we wanted to address the organization, we could have saved ourselves, of course, in the summer, that a four-party request would not be put to the vote. So we had a formal problem, which was actually not foreseeable. I would also like to say to all those who do not deal with parliamentarianism that it is an ordinary right for Members to make requests, and I have repeatedly pointed out: The question of how to evaluate it can only be answered if the vote is taken. You can't say from home: Aha, this proposal does not get a majority, I do not allow it! because, of course, that would be a certain delicate situation not only for our committee, but we have many committees here, and I do not want to know how to react if I myself, in my capacity as chairman of the Committee on the Interior, make a request because I assume that he does not receive a majority anyway, do not allow to vote. [[Abg. Head: I won't let him!]] There would probably be a question of democracy, of parliamentarianism, here, ladies and gentlemen. – So much so that you can understand this problem. The proposal in question was a four-party request, and I think we have been fighting this problem for a very long time. We tried in August to change the whole thing. But I would also like to make it clear that, of course, one can say again and again, one has chosen the smaller evil in the form of a five-party request. But, ladies and gentlemen, and above all, ladies and gentlemen: In the face of everyday life in parliamentarism, where different parties are going together, where very lengthy negotiations are often taking place on legislative instruments, you should actually follow logic based on your assessment of this five-party request and then say that there is extortion everywhere. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The minority law was signed!]] Then: Without moving, there is no common compromise. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The minority right for the committee, Mr. Col., that was signed!]] And that is not just the question, my colleague, of a normal law, especially when it comes to constitutional laws. It is known that one often speaks of Junktim, but the fact is that when five parties have to move together, there has to be some compromise. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We have a signed application for minority law!]] One may take a slightly further step, the other a slightly shorter step. You, Mr President, are always with those who take democracy very seriously. I would therefore ask that we take the democratic rules of the game, especially as regards living parliamentaryism, seriously here too.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2945	I interrupt the meeting and may ask for rest in the gallery.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2973	I'll start the interrupted session again. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e2998	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me make one clear: All accusations made in Austria under the title of severe corruption have been processed, processed for months, and are all subject to court. So to assume here that you don't explain, I point this out to the sharpest. But one, ladies and gentlemen, I say clearly: The most serious misdemeanors that courts and prosecutors have been dealing with for months when it comes to many millions of people, whether they have enriched themselves personally, or whether companies have collected without services, are equal to switching ads, that is to reject! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say this in all clarity, and we will not allow it – and I do not care about which member of the government it is about now. It's a qualitative difference whether we're discussing the fact that you've switched an advertisement, or whether you've got many million stuck without services. And finally, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, something that is very important to me: I do not want to go from the speaker's desk here without thanking Mr Moser for her achievements as chairman until summer. I do not support it either, and have already done so to thank the chairman after the summer break, Mr Rosenkranz, for his careful presidency. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we could all make a significant contribution to the future by considering some points. First: When we load information, we have to treat them that way. No defendant at an Austrian court would be treated in such a way that some of our colleagues often treated some of them. [[Abg. Petzner: Go!]] We don't need that. And for the second: I believe that we have some legislative work ahead of us, because in this form, with these legal provisions it is very, very difficult to work with an investigation committee. Whether and to what extent parallel investigations between the judicial system and the investigation committee are taking place, I leave it behind. But I believe that one must also understand because it is a fundamental right that an accuser also has the right if he would be burdened by his statement to dismiss him. To sum up, it was certainly the most successful investigation committee so far. Law initiatives have already been implemented months ago, which had their outcome in the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3046	Mr Amon. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3068	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to turn to the President of the Council and to note with regard to his report that, unfortunately, it was not objective but clearly party-politically motivated over a long period of time. And this is unfortunate because it does not actually correspond to your super-party presidency in this sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then I should like to turn to colleagues from the Green Group, first of all to Mr Kogler, who is not in the Chamber now, but perhaps you can discuss this at a club meeting, who has literally called the representatives of the two government parties “voice of vote”. [[Call the ÖVP: Scandal!]] I would ask you, Mrs Glawischnig, to leave these animal comparisons in your club. There's nothing lost here in the house. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: To advertise this cover-up is very cool, Mr Amon!]] And then I would also like to say to you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, my opinion on the advertisements that you now place on individual Members of the Government. You know, the really incredible thing is that They not only mention Members by name but then add the phrase “One voice for cover” in large letters – and then so that it is actually only recognizable with a magnifying glass, continue and write: ‘Had voted for the rounding of the Committee of Inquiry as at 16.10.’ Even if you want to get into this discussion with this method, the way you present it is done to give you the impression that every individual member of SPÖ and ÖVP would be put under a ceiling with suspected criminals. And that's unheard of, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Schools: That's how the Greens are!]] [[Abg. Head: This is the green self-righteousness!]] It is also disappointing, Mrs Glawischnig, because the Committee of Inquiry has actually worked well and consensually over very wide distances. Over 80 percent of all decisions in the Committee of Inquiry have been taken unanimously, ladies and gentlemen. That too is to be said once again. This also shows that there was a mutual effort to deal with each other, and not only what Dr. Pilz is so pleased to present to the public. It is unfortunate that I would also like to stress that the long-distance chairperson of Dr. Moser has made a very serious mistake in August, and we cannot spare you that, Mrs. Moser, has made a very serious mistake, has committed an undemocratic mistake, has made a mistake that has cut down the rights of Members. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's wrong! You know that! It's a subjugation!]] You have simply accepted a four-party request and simply not a vote. I would have liked to hear the Greens if they had made a request on their part. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The Constitutional Legalist Mayer did!]] Such a dictatorship of the minority over a majority here in the house is unprecedented in the recent parliamentary history of this country. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It is about the right to investigate the minority!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's about a right! That's a right you don't grant!]] And this unique failure, Dr. Moser, remains yours. We also need to talk about the abuse of the Committee of Inquiry, which has also been widespread. For example, the fact that confidential and secret investigations are being played to the media that, under abuse of the right of question, business secrets are presented on the part of the public, without even nearing the investigation committee with its mission, that surveys are conducted in order to misuse the question time in order to represent a single theory of action alone, all these are things that are not found in the German Bundestag's investigative committees. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What about Deutsche Telekom's 15 000-€ advertisement? Who released this? – Have you been caught in committee or not?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But there is a minority right!]] There is a different culture than this, unfortunately, is the case with us, how the opposition deals with this sharpest parliamentary weapon, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There is a minority right to an investigation committee, and you still refuse to do so!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Head.]] We must also address the problem of parallelity of investigations. Because there too, Dr. Pilz, it is already remarkable that They then publicly declare that, for example, Karl-Heinz Grasser was the most unnecessary witness in the committee of inquiry – because, of course, as an accused in one procedure or another, he has also decided on the statement for a long time – but it was you who constantly insisted that he should come to the committee of inquiry, just as many other accused persons are, of course, well aware that they have the right, of course, in a rule of law, to reject the statement. This is the problem of parallelity in the investigations. And this parallelity, ladies and gentlemen, we also need to look into and question this in the context of a reform of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Because they have the accused Amon!]] The handling of “witnesses” – which we don’t have at all, because we don’t have witnesses or accused persons in the investigation committee, but we have information in the investigative committee. Such information shall comply with their citizenship obligation to be available to the Investigation Committee and must therefore be treated properly and properly consulted. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – You should learn this style from the greens once too. If we look at the individual issues, we must also note that in some areas there is, of course, political responsibility to clarify political responsibility. And I would remind you in this context that the transparency package, the new regime for the promotion of parties, the donation of parties, the lobbying, the law on corruption and the new rules on incompatibility for Members and, last but not least, the law on media transparency, have put in place a series of measures in order to cover grey areas in order to clarify things in the future to stop unwanted transactions. These are concrete measures, concrete political consequences that we have jointly removed from the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We must also see, however, that there have been a number of cases in which we have examined the political responsibility simply and simply not to be established. For example, if you are thinking of the influence of greedy managers in terms of the manipulation of stock prices of Telekom Austria: This is an economic criminal case. This has nothing to do with political responsibility, Dr. Pilz. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this context, however, the following should also be mentioned in relation to the entire Telekom complex: You, Dr. Pilz, were the one who, at the very beginning – and I told you that in the Committee of Inquiry, too – felt that this investigation committee had to cooperate very closely with the judiciary, that he had to vote with the justice, which information we can hear about which files can be sent. And this also led to the fact that in some areas, such as the last-treated area of Telekom East business, we did not get a whole series of files at all. But that's what you're looking for, because fishing in turbidity. Your case is and because it gives you the opportunity to carry out constructions that may not really exist at all. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The “possibly” is probably important in this regard!]] It is correct, Mr Pirklhuber, because when you fish in the murky, you do not know what is underneath it. It's just correct. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Lap.]] That is why I am saying, perhaps, because I do not know, Mr Pirklhuber. Or think about the investigations on BUWOG. There was also the problem of parallel investigations. If we take TETRON, where there were audits by the Court of Auditors on both ADONI and TETRON awards, and where the Federal Minister now responsible for the matter has specifically commissioned a request examination, we must also say here that the partly malicious constructions of the Dr. Pilz have run into emptiness. True, there were, of course, problems in the implementation of a project of this dimension, but these malicious constructions, as presented by Dr. Pilz, did not exist. Let's take the novel to the gambling law: We could also see that gambling companies have performed intense lobbying, that gambling companies have gone to the competent ministers, but we have not been able to establish the concrete accusation of painting in the committee. The topic of citizenship. Even since, Dr. Pilz, you have publicly claimed – it is remarkable that this was partly tax-free – that there would have been an instruction from the then Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who was also Minister of the Interior for nine days, or from then Federal Minister Bartenstein. – It is true that such an instruction could never be proved because it is not, Dr. Pilz. Take note of this as well: There was no such instruction! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is very good is the public interest in the fact that the Federal Government has the opportunity to grant citizenship when people do exceptional things for the country. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Just like the...!]] This can be politically criticised, one can fight politically, alone: Criminal, Dr. Pilz, it's not. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to stress once again – and this is important, because, of course, you can say to God, thanks to everything you want to say, even untrue – that one is untrue – and in doing so it remains: [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Perhaps, colleague!]] This committee will not, as you are trying to explain, “turn off” but the date for the end of this committee and the witness loads of the last three weeks, along with the handling of the files, was an all-party agreement, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What else, please? What else is that?]] Stop running legends here and claim that this is the majority over you. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do you know the word “expressed ”? Do you know what “political extortion” is?]] You would have had the easy way of not agreeing to an application that did not suit you. This is so in the parliamentary debate: You vote in favour of it or you vote against it. In this case, you voted in favour.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3433	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3454	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee of Inquiry for its very objective and comprehensive oral report here in the final phase of the Committee of Inquiry Dr Walter Rosenkranz. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the short time he had available, he made some of the realities and results of the Committee of Inquiry visible, in a very comprehensive way. One thing will be remembered in all cases when you think of this committee of inquiry, namely that good work has been done. In this regard, I would also like to thank former chairman Dr. Moser, who led the presidency very much, very well, except for the one mistake that unfortunately happened to God, and which the coalition parties of Red and Black have, in truth, taken as a reason for turning away from the committee of inquiry. Otherwise, we would have had a situation of a four-party proposal in which we could have continued the committee, but this request was not approved. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You pulled him back!]] But that's shed milk now. You have at least shown the size of your mistake to be indirect and to draw the consequences from it and withdraw as chairman. Of course, it is not possible – I say as a minority opinion – to go beyond the majority and not allow a request. This is the right of Members here in Parliament, but also of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Lapp]] This was a unique excuse in the history of the committee of inquiry. But, of course, this committee will also be remembered as one where, at the end, when it became particularly hot and hot for SPÖ and ÖVP, a cover-up coalition became active. That is what is happening to you, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ and the ÖVP! They have done everything they can to strangle, turn away, cover up, make sure that certain malts and accusations of corruption can no longer be clarified. This spectacle is in itself unworthy of this house, but it also testifies to an unprecedented arrogance and prepotence in the history of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Above all, however, this Committee of Inquiry will remain in memory as the declaration of democratic bankruptcy of the Faymann-SPÖ, where a Federal Chancellor has made every effort to withdraw himself from parliamentary control. He wasn't loaded. The opposition's wish had not been to invite him as Chancellor, but in his responsibility as a former minister of the Ministry of Infrastructure, as regards which there are massive and concrete accusations. He refused to declare himself under the duty of truth before the investigating committee, and he made it very, very easy by trying to present it as if he would like it, he would have invited, but he had not received an invitation. It was already an interesting spectacle to see that apparently the secret party leader of SPÖ is Mr Otto Pendl. I imagine Mr. Faymann's kneeling before you, Mr. Pendl, saying: Please, Pendl, please, my party friend, please, invite me! – But the “evil” Pendl said: No, never, we don't invite you, because that's not worthy of our house and not worthy of my idea! – That's why the Pendl prevented this. But perhaps it was also the thank you of Pendl at the last party meeting to take care of Faymann, perhaps somewhere, to give thanks to him to presse before the committee of inquiry and not to express himself under the duty of truth. [[Rejoicing and applause at the FPÖ]] It would really be terrible if Mr Faymann had practically been able to express himself in a completely helpless way under the duty of truth. It would have been horrendous if certain things had come to light. Mr. Cap shot the bird in an interview after the “summer talks” when he said: Please, what do we need the Werner Faymann at all in the investigation committee, now he has been in the “summer talk” at Armin Wolf. Everything was already asked and everything was answered. – This also shows how Mr. Klubobmann Cap, in his division, finally dealt with the instrument of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, my God, that's not so serious, it's only about €7 million Austrian tax money for Werner Faymann, that was the talk. That's nothing, it's almost a naughtiness to do such a theatre, because of such a slippery sum, which was used for advertising at the expense of Austrian taxpayers, – possibly some outsourced area was needed to do as some taxing witnesses have said. Of course, the Federal Chancellor is also being made out of the ÖVP's wall, which clearly served Mr Werner Faymann, because it is also a question of the SPÖ making the wall in other areas of the ÖVP when it becomes brittle. We have seen this in the last part of the research on Deutsche Telekom around the billionaire sleep. There's no one allowed anyone more than a witness. Sleep has turned out. That was the sleep with which, by the way, the former pig-channer Wolfgang Schüssel in the private jet – of which he did not want to know that this sleeper belonged – flew to Bulgaria, where he then intervened with a Wickendorfer Wings, so that certain things would be set in motion. All of this is almost kept silent and often forgotten. I am speaking of someone who does not want to know anything today, although in his environment, in his ministry, there were apparently people who are today under massive suspicion of corruption – whether this was the Minister of the Interior of Strasser or the Minister of Finance of the ÖVP from 2002 onwards Karl-Heinz Grasser or Mensdorff-Pouilly, the well-known husband of a former Minister of the ÖVP, and many more, many others – and who is now again in silence. With all this, no one comes up with the idea of saying: Strangely, these were actually the personalities who played a role around bowls, since he must have known a lot about what is happening in his environment. It is also interesting that if the entire development of the Committee of Inquiry is to happen today, which is, of course, an increase in parliamentary democracy, where I think that the alarm bells would have to be raised by all the representatives of the government parties, especially at SPÖ at the latest. After the SPÖ party with the 83 percent for Werner Faymann, at least the directors of the party's day, Mrs. Laura Rudas or Mr. Herbe, should be there, because many members are rightly angry and angry about certain developments and practices. Believe me, the population is still much, much more angry about your current turning off of the investigation committee! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I assure you that this party day result of Werner Faymann was not the last exit he experienced: This will come to an end at the next National Council election, where this bizarre episode will also come to an end. In any case, the Examining Committee has made one of the following: He has been able to show, in many areas, that there is a self-service shop in this Republic, that a mixture of politicians and economic interests has partly taken place in a criminal way for decades and decades, and he has shown that there is a lot of arsenal here and we have no remaining information in these areas for a long time. There is still much to be done, and there will also be a great deal of need by our side, i.e. by law, in order to enforce more efficient laws in this regard. However, I find the behaviour of Mr Heinz Fischer, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, which I must say quite openly, because while he otherwise likes to play a moral body, he has not even spoken in the rounding of the committee of inquiry. Unfortunately, one has again and again to say that he was silent, quite silent, and has not here urged that Enlightenment is necessary and that in this way, as you do today, an investigation committee should not turn off, one must recognize its party political preference. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: He was at the toilet!]] There he made the wall to the roofs of red and black, and this is embarrassing and belongs here also very openly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] SPÖ and ÖVP have done much to torpedo the Committee of Inquiry. We have just had to see that even an important witness who would have liked to declare as a burden witness, namely the ASFINAG Board of Directors Wehinger, who was massively burdened by Faymann, was also not presented as a witness because of the resistance of SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lapp]] Our Secretary-General, Harald Vilimsky, has even physically led Mr Wehinger to the committee of inquiry. He would have had the day over time, and you were afraid to invite someone here under the duty of truth who could charge Werner Faymann in the investigation committee. This alone is significant in terms of how you deal with such an instrument of the Committee of Inquiry. They have prevented many, many witnesses. You have put all of this to the point that you cannot fulfil the task you have given to the committee on the subject. And this is really in the form – not unique, because you have in the end already lived and shown the same thing in a similar way to the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, but also to the BAWAG Investigation Committee. One has not come at all about the issue of citizenship. It would have been nice and worthwhile, but again there was the fear of SPÖ and ÖVP, because the competence lies with the national leaders and of course it would have been interesting to discuss the case of Burgstaller or many cases among the city councillor Brauner, where there was evidence of talks with Russian billionaires, there were citizenship interventions, then, as a result of the intervention of Mrs Burgstaller, there has also been citizenship awards to these Russians and then, as previously promised, millions of euros in the direction of the Salzburg Festival. [[Abg. May. Lapp: Say something to you!]] It is interesting that in this case, which is very clearly on the table, all investigations have been filed and have never been charged. It is also interesting that many former Russian citizens in Vienna have subsequently received citizenship under the councillor Brauner in their power and we have not been able to light that up. Apparently there is still a lot to reveal here, which is also necessary to be discovered. Unfortunately, they have shown and lived no real interest in education. And I tell you, where it has become brittle, you have behaved very, very tediously with the turning off and with the pattern of behavior, keeping things under the ceiling and under the spell. In truth, this shows: It is essential to amend the Rules of Procedure on the one hand and to ensure that minority law is finally safeguarded in the House in the case of committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the result of this committee of inquiry, but it is also the previous one that you have already turned off. – That is necessary! I just don't think your promise is worth anything. – Mr. Cap always swallows cream and promises, promises, promises, as does Mr. Faymann, and no promise has been made. This is also the reason why more and more people and citizens who have to experience and now have seen this sad spectacle are so angry with political leaders and also with political parties and their patterns of conduct. Apparently, the party power is ultimately what is often in the way of the interest of the population in this country – party power and interests, network interests, lobbyism interests – instead of finally giving the population the right to initiative and also ensuring that this party power can be broken through and we also overcome the democratic crisis. And the more direct democracy there is, the more transparency and control are ensured. The fact that you are afraid of this is only all the more explainable in view of your behavior today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say to you that the citizens are rightly angry because they recognize the political motivation of turning away, and I tell you that the account will certainly be presented to you in forthcoming elections. You can't turn out there, you can't suffocate out. This was so obvious and something like that, as I say, last-class and not worthy of democracy and this House, that, hopefully, you will still have to comment accordingly today – but with the truth and not with untruth, as Mr Cap has already done in the debate on the Rules of Procedure today, when he said to Mrs Moser and others that from the outset there would have been a sort of agreement to end the committee by October of this year. – No, it was the objective that no obstacles should occur, that all witnesses will also come to see that all the objects of investigation can really be examined, but that not those obstacles that you have caused.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3626	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3647	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think 97 percent of politicians work honestly, correctly, with commitment, with commitment on the ground and have not deserved to be thrown into a pot with people who are suspected of corruption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head:... ads!]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: And then switch such ads? You can't say 97 percent work correctly, and then turn off such ads!]] But every politician, every politician, every national council member, every national council member bears responsibility for his personal voting in this Parliament. We all swore the oath to the Republic. We all stand for what we decide by vote here. That is political responsibility. And if, due to any constraints, individual or whole factions are involved, it is a pity that the diktat – so I call it – or the decree – is more polite, the club management or the party management to join or submit, it is more rude again, then they also bear the responsibility for it. And it is precisely at a time when political stardom really takes on very, very threatening dimensions, also that the local electorate can really speak and answer the local electorate – to be able to answer and speak for what individuals and individuals in the National Council represent by their voting behaviour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hammer]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] That's what it's all about. We have taken a big decision together: We want to find out about cases of corruption – I deliberately say: Corruption suspects. In most cases we have been able to implement this decision, but since mid-July and the end of August there were massive advances on the part of the government parties, including with the help of other political groups, to limit file deliveries by means of applications and decisions in the committee of inquiry. That was the stump, and the spirits separated. I have represented the position, this Committee of Inquiry has the right to obtain all the files, including those already dealt with; they have never been completed, there has never been a decision. On this right I have been told that I personally had the consequences, had the vote and also had the request to vote, which is why I then put him to the vote – only: then he was withdrawn. And now you want to put the blame on me. I took the consequences. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - You did not even put him to the vote. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You withdrew him yourself!]] I allowed him, I made a statement. You did not put him to the vote. [[Abg. May. Lapp: Something is missing!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You have also presented a list of witnesses; I would have put them to the vote – you have taken them back. I have received a timetable from you; I would have put it to the vote – you have withdrawn it. I suspect that – I always say it politely – the background was that you just wanted to create obstacles so that you would not put the Committee in a situation where he has to discuss the load of Mr Faymann's Chancellor, I do not say: vote on it; we also voted on it, there have been requests for it. [[Abg. Amon: You know that's not true, Mrs. Moser!]] We can then speak on a private basis, which is not a problem at all. I took the consequences. Now I should like to point out that I have always said that the Committee needs – just as the lawyer estimated it – until the end of autumn time to work thoroughly, that is for me at the end of November/beginning of December. I also said – quite correctly –: I suspect that the government parties want to end by mid-October. – Yes, it was, unfortunately, too; but this end in mid-October has the character of swirling, turning off, sluggishing – and this is, unfortunately, the reality. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we also have to take account of this reality, although this committee has worked very, very well – that is, everyone – so to speak, this restriction policy has begun this restriction policy. It was about showing the interdependences of money, power and politics in seven thematic areas, and this succeeded, for example, in Telekom. I'm just saying a few words to Telekom: A regulation shall be adopted in accordance with Deutsche Telekom's request. Second keyword to Deutsche Telekom: Payments to policy – €1.8 million in total – especially benefited the BZÖ. Fact! Last word on Telekom: Honors to politicians; Honorare Gorbach, Honorare Reichhold, Honorare Strasser. [[Call the Greens:Honorary Amon!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Head.]] We are not aware of the counter-performance – we have put this question in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Keywords BUWOG. I would like to thank Mr President and just mention one key word in this regard – it is already to be read in the Court of Auditors' report: Overall, the Republic suffered a loss of more than 340 million €. The friendship network, on the other hand, was able to book a lot on its account: Plach is suspected, Meischberger is suspected, Hochegger has collected, at Grasser it's still a suspect moment. Keywords Authority radio. We know that there were 30 million discount payments; € 30 million tax money for changing providers that another consortium came to the train, again suspecting that the second consortium is close to a gentleman from Burgenland. Keywords Gambling, lobbyist activity – successful committee activity –: I could show you three or four pages with payments from Novomatic to the environment of the then Minister of Finance, to Hochegger, Meischberger – all documented –; €300 000 for the study has already been mentioned thanks to the report by Mr President. Last word, awards of citizenship. 2 million € – and you will be Kärntner. For further details, please see this debate. I'm allowed to stretch out a big one: There is a difference between personal enrichment, money directly in party funds and the purchase of ads by means of the money of close-to-state businesses. That is what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic should have been responsible to the Committee of Inquiry for, at least, as questionable and as interesting as this. We did it in part – but unfortunately only in part – also. It is a difference, but it is really vital – precisely what the Committee's investigation mission is about to do – that it is of vital importance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Overall, there was a picture that was similarly called by the Telekom – I can quote Fischer – itself, the culture of convenience. We pay, maybe we'll stay the board of directors for that. We are making contributions, so to speak, and we may be better off in the telecoms policy. – Overall, a picture remains – I quote a second person – of “Landscape care”. Building companies will then enter into business if they serve the environment of the Minister of Finance in commissions. - That's right! We have penablely listed the various commission payments that Meischberger, Hochegger and so on, which often took the detour via Cyprus to Delaware and back to Liechtenstein. In any case, we have also learned that individual members of the Committee worked very, very hard. I think it is urgently necessary to express my personal thanks to Mr Tamandel, who also represented me in the Presidency, who often represented the leader of the group, was always well prepared and specifically asked. I now call extra women's names – apologise to the men; they have already been thanked. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Mag. Lap and Amon.]] In the tradition of Mr Pendl, of course, I would also like to thank Mrs Lapp, Mrs Silhavy and Mr Steßl-Mühlbacher, who have alternated from the social democracy in the area of questions – also well prepared and really hard at the ball. Thank you, of course, also to the Members of Parliament; it was excellent what you did in organizational work. Thank you also to the leaders of the political groups for their willingness to cooperate through long distances. It was possible to work together – however: Where tactic was concerned, where it was about power, then the Njet came. On the other hand, one can only come up with a new law of the Committee of Inquiry, which we urgently call for, namely, minority law, which I say extra, and hand in hand with a reform of the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, because it is clear: For at least ten years now, Parliament's Directorate has listed reform proposals, small elements, so that the ambiguities are eliminated, so to speak, that they can really be worked out offensively, without any doubt, but these proposals have not yet been implemented. [[Abg. Head: It's not about small things!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] I can conclude by saying: Personally, I am delighted about a very happy, really very happy: I should like to thank you, Mr Amon, as a Deutsche Telekom spokesperson. You said that I was burdened before I took over the presidency. I'm very glad, now it's official – you've been able to see through all the files, all Deutsche Telekom-Acts, black on white and unblack –: I'm really not burdened, and that relieves me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3849	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I now give Mr. Klubobmann Josef Bucher the floor, I draw attention to the following: Due to the advanced period, the individual political groups have a total speaking time of 23 minutes by 1 p.m. and not 28 minutes. Please take this into consideration in your speakers' and speakers' classifications. This, of course, does not affect the overall speaking time of the political groups until the end of the meeting. Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3877	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to say thank you, on behalf of our group, for the fact that it is unfortunate that the Committee of Inquiry is being carried out today, and I would like to thank all those who, in the interests of informing the Committee of Inquiry, have tried to promote everything that was feasible at that time. I would also like to thank all the political groups that have put their feet on the committee of inquiry and also the individual Members who have worked in the Committee of Inquiry. In particular, on behalf of our group, Mr Petznerthanken, who has sacrificed a great deal of time, I would like to make a great deal of effort and, in the sense of the Enlightenment, have been very committed to the fact that everything is really being clarified, including the accusations against the BZÖ. [[OBJECTIVES]] Mr. Rosenkranz, I cannot understand how you come to the conclusion that the BZÖ 2008 has any payments from Telekom – so in 2008 nothing is known to us. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: 2006...!]] I have made all the documents available to us in the responsibility of our movement. All we have in terms of figures, data, facts, information has, of course, been made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office. There was no skrupel at all to load any information into the investigation committee. Stefan Petzner was a dedicated witness in all these charging processes, who said that no matter if it concerns active mandates of the BZÖ, he will always ensure that everyone can be questioned. I can tell you that there was also an active representative of the BZÖ on Stefan Petzner's cargo list, because we said: We stand for a hundred percent reconnaissance and want everything to come to the table, what happened in the past. I do not want us to continue with the suspicions and accusations in the future if we now have the opportunity to create facts and complete the whole chapter once and for all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That was our intention with the Committee of Inquiry right from the start, and we should also be taken into account. I have also seen no clues, heard or read about any accusations against the deceased head of state Jörg Haider – none. There is no such thing, and that is why I ask – if it has already been done so eagerly – to take note that there has been nothing there, and to say it here and not always to come with any accusations and to clean down on a dead person who can no longer defend himself, ladies and gentlemen! [[Prolonged applause with BZÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Bitch.]] This is not decent, and this is not at all honorable and heard, I believe, not to the good style of politics, because we have more than once to talk about the style of politics in this House. We have to talk about how to proceed with corruption, which is undoubtedly still taking place, and what we are doing about it in the future. We can't blame ourselves. We have provided documents – everything that is accessible to us – and we have shown maximum willingness to cooperate with the Public Prosecutor's Office and are fully informed. That was not the case with all the parties. I just remember individual charges as far as the SPÖ is concerned. The FPÖ and the BZÖ alone were a double-digit number of persons in the investigation committee. There have been some desires to also invite some of the SPÖ. The only and only Mr. Ostermayer has appeared. [[Abg. May. Lap: Berlakovich was there too!]] The chancellor did not come, and many others did not come who would have liked to be asked about the accusations. I always say – and this is what the population understands: If I don't have anything to hide and if everything's so lukewarm, then I'm going to an investigation committee, then I'll get the interviews, and then I'll clear up once and for all that's nothing. That would have been an honest statement, which I wish for today by every politician and which I can expect, ladies and gentlemen, too. The taxpayer also has a right to do so, because we all, as we are sitting here, are paid by the taxpayer, and he has a claim and a right to work decently and tell the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Committee of Inquiry has also looked forward to making this really successful work over a long period of time. We have derived great laws – not a hundred percent to the satisfaction of all, but I believe that a little bit of self-cleaning has come about. And now it's off suddenly, now suddenly it's turned off. Now one or the other of the survey styles does not fit. – So this is really ridiculous, because you can agree on a questioning style, you can understand that you change it. This is really a proposed excuse. Just because two very precise and intelligible mandates are in the committee to suddenly turn everything off, nobody understands that. And it will not be possible to dry these swamps in the future, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not continue the investigation. It is not yet clear everything, there are still countless questions that the press is asking the press, which is also presenting itself to the public, and therefore it would be reasonable to have a permanent committee of inquiry in Parliament dealing with the cases of corruption, namely precisely, quickly and not only after two or three years, when various documents have disappeared and ferry searches become extremely difficult. Especially in the area of mortgage, municipal credit, the public banks, where there is enough taxpayer's money, it would be good to finally clarify the political responsibilities and to introduce those people who have put it into the taxpayer's hands. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, it would be necessary for all of us, as we have already decided, to take it seriously with the minority law of the Committee of Inquiry, so that an opposition party can and can do so, just as the other countries do. This is an important self-cleaning effect, for example in Germany. Let us agree on a new Rules of Procedure with regard to the Committee of Inquiry, but it is crucial that we recognise this as a minority law and that control is made possible. If we do not make this, we will always be able to hear mutual accusations and drive the political profession further into the abyss. This, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to do so, nor does the BZÖ, and therefore we propose that there should be this minority right, especially now, at a time when we are experiencing a new dimension of political voting. From recent history we know that bankers buy whole governments, even take over governments like in Italy or in Greece. Will it also be in Austria in the future that a billionaire will come and just buy out any mandates with money? Do we want this, ladies and gentlemen? Look, I don't need to think about it, I've got a completely white vest and I've already done the resistance. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl and Mr Riepl.]] I have resisted, and I do not want to ask everyone whether he can resist €500 000 if he is offered. I do not want to ask 183 Members – or 182 Members without me, because I have already answered the question in a crucial situation and clearly and clearly rejected it. I do not want to let it come that far, ladies and gentlemen. It would therefore be all the more necessary to have a permanent investigation committee to investigate such corruption cases as they are currently taking place at the hour. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Members will be killed by a billionaire, ladies and gentlemen. This has nothing to do with propriety and character! These are corrupt lemmings without conscience in our political system, these are processes that I will always decide to take up the task I will face!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e3991	Mrs Mag. Lapp is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4012	Madam President. High house! Spectators values! Dear viewers! Mr Klubobmann Bucher, I have almost had pity for you now, and I am not surprised that you voted in favour of this Lamento here after the BZÖ Group has now broken you. [[Abg. Bucher: To me no one needs to worry, I'm financially insured!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about Mr Köfer? Wait, you're gonna get a few more!]] On the other hand, I really want to reject that Klubobmann Bucher and Klubobmann Strache – neither Klubobmann Bucher nor Klubobmann Strache was in the Committee of Inquiry – agreeing to a Lamento that we would not have done anything in the Committee of Inquiry. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that last year we passed five laws relating to the processing of the investigation committee. For all those colleagues who may not know this so well: On the one hand, it is about the media transparency law that forbids government members to advertise with heads – a concrete impact of the investigation committee. And here I really would like to reject this immenseness that you accuse Chancellor Faymann of having committed corruption! – The opposite is the case. Faymann has been a Transport Minister for ÖBB! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, it is about the Party Financing Act, through which there are strict rules in the direction of corruption, sponsorship, donations. Corruption law has been intensified. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] There is a lobbying and interest-making law, a transparency package, and changes have also been made in the contract-limitation law, in direct consequence, as a direct impact of the investigation committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Many people in Austria are asking me what such a committee of inquiry will bring. Ladies and gentlemen! These five laws are very important measures to prevent and combat criminal acts that we have experienced in the Committee of Inquiry. Money was put into your own pockets without performance by some – at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of the customers at Telekom, at the expense of the employees at Telekom, at the expense of the tenants at BUWOG. A braid of persons – Hochegger, Meischberger, Grasser, Plach, Rumpold and Mensdorff-Pouilly – has contributed to the fact that election funding has been carried out without direct service. The money was shifted from Deutsche Telekom to the BZÖ via advertising agencies. And now, as I have heard, it will be further worked out by the judicial authorities. It is about payments to an FCG works council that could not mention a career leap in its company, but was then paid directly by Hochegger – at Telekom. It's about stock price manipulations. The employees of the Telekom company had to experience numerous restructurings, but the board of directors looked to them to bring home a decent basket money through the share price manipulations. €300 000 for a study at the Orange Agency, which is linked to the BZÖ. This is a study of which only the cover sheets have been found; a study that was written on a weekend. Further studies are about €600 000 from Deutsche Telekom, where only the cover sheets and the subject areas are available. And this is about €160 000 for discussions in the field of influence of the then Minister of Finance Grasser. Ladies and gentlemen! We should do everything we can to prevent and combat such events, and with the laws we have passed, that is possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Peter Hochegger as the turning and fishing point of the money flows in a carousel of corporate constructions and companies, where payments have been shifted across the globe to then land again in the pockets of those people who seem to have understood themselves as the three Musketeers – Grasser, Rumpold, Meischberger – who understood three Musketeers of greed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Accounts without services, commissions and percentages in privatisations – 9.9 million from the BUWOG sale were paid to Hochegger over this company network, more than 15 companies. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Petzner.]] But also the Mr. Graf from Luising – there were illustrative hunting invitations – is always present in the processes in the areas of blue-light radio and Telekom. We have managed to bring about changes and results through the adoption of the laws – the media transparency law, the corruption law. In my opinion, the Committee has worked efficiently. The great Lamento, which is now voted on by the opposition parties in the direction that this committee would have been turned off, is not correct in my opinion, because we have worked together in this direction by defining the individual chapters and the course of each chapter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] The report of the Committee of Inquiry is a success. The fact that the opposition parties are now being tried to give the impression that nothing has come out of it, I think, is a strong piece, because by doing so, ladies and gentlemen, you are also putting your work into a bad light. We had a good record, a good preparation in the Committee compared to previous committees, as well as blackouts and others on the agenda. It was worked very well by the Parliamentary Directorate, by the stenographers of Parliament and by the staff of the individual clubs. For me, the point of this committee – and this has gone through the whole committee – was that it has always been very difficult for President Moser on the part of his colleagues in the political groups to get rid of this bandage. The situation in August, when a request by four parliamentary groups was not put to the vote, was put to the vote because Mrs President Moser at the time meant that she did not see it and did not allow it, caused by a very large parliamentary misappropriation. Another point that was negative from my point of view is that Mrs President Moser made a statement before the Committee was informed when it came to finding a good ground after this mess. Before we found out in the Committee what the discussions have done, the results were to be found in the press. That's very, very bad. As a result, a lot of confidence has been lost, and a lot of ways of dealing with this committee have been destroyed, which I very much regret. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that we should not deny our work and not be negative, because it is important for the people to know what laws we have passed.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4125	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4146	Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the Committee of Inquiry, of course, the different views of the opposition and government parties are worth mentioning, but that is precisely the nature of the matter. But you also have to see the facts: It is true that most of the decisions – from the Committee's establishment to the end – have been taken unanimously and that there has also been agreement that we will find an end to this committee by mid-October. The Committee was not turned off, but ended by agreement. You have to mention this here. When we look at the facts and figures of the Committee, we see what has been done: 53 days of meetings, 1.6 million pages of documents sent, 132 persons, 330 hours of meetings, and more than 5,000 pages of minutes of the minutes of the minutes, will finally be able to document the excellent work. This also shows that very serious and neat work was done. But the aim of a committee of inquiry is political reorganisation, not judicial, because we as Parliament are not parallel state attorneys. That's not our job! Political responsibility has been clarified, and the necessary consequences have also been met. It was ÖVP Justice Minister Beatrix Karl, who launched an extensive package against corruption, and here in the House we have passed these laws: Media transparency law, the introduction of a lobbyist register, the re-regulation of party funding and the intensification of the obligation to disclose mandates in corruption law – these are results that we could be very proud of. I think one point should also be made in connection with the ads: that the handling has been another so far. We now have the Media Transparency Act so that certain incidents can no longer occur in the ads. Mr. Bucher – he is now no longer in the hall – has previously said that he expects a member of the Federal Government to speak and answer in the Committee. Minister Berlakovich was in the Committee of Inquiry, there was a speech and an answer – and that until no Member had a question; I would like to mention that. And it was your group, the BZÖ, who nevertheless convened a special meeting on the issue of ads on Minister Berlakovich on Monday. Minister Berlakovich was also available to Parliament here, was speaking and answering and did everything exactly. And there is nothing to cover up and cover up! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a very important point that this is properly reworked here. Let us now look at the debate a little more closely. There is a lot of talk here about the danger that parliamentarianism is in danger, democracy is faltering that the Committee has been turned on and where political responsibility remains. – It's not like that! It is also not true that the Committee of Inquiry is the only institution in this Republic where political responsibility can be recognized. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I ask you to come in front of your own door. And you, ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screen, should know who says what. The FPÖ – is that FPÖ that is sitting as a FPK in the Carinthian Landtag and now, I think, for the tenth time already, this is a anniversary that leaves the Landtagssession and does not allow new elections so that the citizens cannot decide? [[Abg. New builder: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is another party!]] – There the Constitution is trampled with feet! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Is it the greens who pass over the people in Vienna with a park pickerl-dictat of their city councillor Vassilakou? Is that basic democracy in the sense of the Greens? – This is dictatorial politics! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And to BZÖ: You can't document this political summer closing sale any more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The investigative committee has worked very hard. [[Abg. Petzner: Say something to the “Farmers News”!]] – Mr Petzner, I would like to write you one in the diary: Whoever throws dirt will be left with dirty hands!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4246	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4267	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you can order the young colleague of the ÖVP a few training hours at the ÖVP Party Academy, which would not be bad. [[Abg. Amon: He doesn't need any more!]] I would like to start with the Social Democrats and their Legendary Education, in the Causa Faymann, on which this committee was finally broken, it was about switching ads. – It’s about switching ads! Mr Klubobmann Cap, Mr Pendl, who you are not in the hall, and who else takes the floor! If you go as a party to a daily newspaper and say: There's my chairman, who I would like to advertise, for that I pay!, that's all right, and no one has a problem with that. However, if your chairman as a transport minister goes to a daily newspaper and says: We're doing a huge cooperation where I want to look as good as possible, I'm looking at photo, I'm drawing a value from it – but I'm supposed to pay the ÖBB or the ASFINAG!, then that's the real problem in this thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if then additional board members are needed by the ÖBB, they are told that they are losing their board mandate in case they don't play along, then it's not just about abuse of office, then it's not just about unfaithfulness anymore, but then it's about, colleague Weninger, serious need! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Your party chairman will already have known why he does not trust in the committee. The prosecutor found out against him in this causa. So, my speaking time is short. . I would like to thank my colleague and group president Walter Rosenkranz for the excellent presidency. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With the small additional note: Perhaps it would have been good if you had taken one out of our ranks as chairman. We do not have the chaos that may be the case with the greens. We have legal certainty, Parliamentaryism and the Rules of Procedure are being respected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Something that the representatives of the two government groups have not yet brought about: I would also like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, first and foremost the staff of the EDPS of this House, who have done superhuman things, who have done excellent work for us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you, Madam President Prammer, I would like to remind you that there is a joint letter from all the leaders of the political groups that this excellent performance of the House's staff is also made tangible and tangible and is given a corresponding reward for this great achievement. Ladies and gentlemen! We should not be surprised at the fact that this committee has been turned off, because we know this pattern of red-black embossing from the past few years. Remember the years 2008 and 2009: 2008 was – starting from the case of Haidinger; that was, for those who no longer know, the one who was torpedoed by the Federal Criminal Office, who said he would not want to be corrupted, and where the suspicion was that a system of official abuse, intervention and corruption has widened in the interior resort – a huge committee set up, with 32 themes of evidence, and shortly later your chairman Molterer said: [[towards ÖVP]] “It’s enough!” has broken new elections from the fence. The committee was over! Next Committee in 2009: There was the hearing of Mr Westenthaler, I think, a subject, then Sailer, who was suspected of being incarcerated, and what could be summarized on Austrian mandates under the influence of foreign intelligence services. That was a pretty well-deserved story, where red and black have raged in that I, whom I have asked for a request of several hundred on this subject, should have been influenced here. When I then researched this topic in depth, when I was able to show that this story was brought to us by your current SPÖ program coordinator Blecha about an ORF journalist and that it was suspected that red and black would benefit from Kazakhstan with both hands – your former chairman Gusenbauer is now a consultant to Nasarbajew, that says a lot – and when your head of state Pröll was suspected of having granted citizenship to the counter-group around Aliyev, it was quite quickly over. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: Lansky very strong!]] [[towards ÖVP]] [[Abg. Street: Kazakhstan and other regions! Mr. Lansky!]] You said of red and black: Okay, now we're loading someone, but not those who were busy, but you've invited me. My memory of the only active representative of this House quoted in a red and black action in committee was my person. I was able to clarify everything, I deepened the suspicions in your direction and your direction until you were so dirty in your eyes that you turned this committee off in a row. [[turned to SPÖ]] [[turn to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same knitting pattern is the case here again. Based on a case-law presentation to the prosecutor's office – it's about Faymann and Ostermayer – this committee has touched itself, that was good, he did great in the first phase. But from the time I was allowed to be the leader of the political groups, this committee began to turn off. [[Abg. Petzner: Here you go! That's a bold interpretation! There you have to laugh!]] – Mr Petzner, I am asking you to have your lax cases in silence, because it is disturbing. In the ad affair, but also in the question of East and Telekom shops, only witnesses/inquiries were invited, with whom one knew – in red and black agreement – that will be witnesses/inquiries who turn out all around because they have a procedure on the neck or are so embedded in the red or black apparatus that nothing will certainly happen. I say that this Committee of Inquiry goes further on the right of the mandates to interact, it goes further, where appropriate, on the representations of matters which mandates can bring in, and it goes on to discuss the information work of political mandates, and above all of the Freedom Party. In my opinion, this Committee of Inquiry is to move into a permanent body equipped with minority rights. That would be a good signal to show the public: Yeah, we're honest with my control, we're serious! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the party day, your party president received 83 percent of the votes – a special class strike, a revolt in your ranks! [[towards SPÖ]] But just keep doing that! Elector day is payday, and it will not only get you, but also you as a mediator to feel clearly. [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4418	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4446	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the kind welcome I've hopefully really deserved. Let us now come to a truly reasonable proposal from the ÖVP, which hopefully will also be supported by the SPÖ: the strengthening of the right to vote in personality. I think this is a good and important idea. But one requires the right of choice of personality, it should be strengthened, however, presupposes: more personal responsibility of the so-called mandates. And where is this responsibility to take place? – But not in any party secretariat, but not in the federal management, but where the delegates are elected! [[Abg. Head: In the constituency where you can never be found!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why it is also important to inform voters about the personalities, in particular the government parties, who are elected. And we do nothing but carry out our information mission, but our mission to increase transparency. [[Jaja-Rufe.]] [[Abg. Head: cover up!]] That is why we inform the electorate in the constituencies that, because they voted in favour and made sure that everyone else in their clubs, often against their own consciences, are votes for the covert, votes for the disability of the fight against corruption, votes for the end of the committee of inquiry. [[The speaker refers to the corresponding text on the posters.]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, you will certainly not prevent us from informing your electorate to the smallest community, to the smallest village, to the smallest voting party, how much you misused your mandate in terms of anti-corruption and the interests of a clean Austria here in this House a week ago! - Well, that's just for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: He's going through the area all over the group at the Nosenring. That's incredible!]] A small supplement: There was an agreement of four parties – we were of course not in the process – not to load active Members. Imagine what that means! Political responsibility in this Republic only begins when the honourable Member leaves office and retires. We were not allowed to load a Member of Parliament Amon, the accused in criminal proceedings, we were not allowed to invite any Westenthaler Member, we were not allowed to invite Gartlehner from the SPÖ, and in this case we must say that he was the only one who said: I'm ready to come! These were probably early Faymann’s words and wishes. In any case, we were not allowed to even question Members. Imagine, unanimously, that we are given the task of examining a possible purchase of law, and then we cannot question Members! Yes, how should we review the law purchase in the interest of the organized and possibly highly criminal gambling of companies like NOVOMATIC if we cannot question the delegates who may have been bought by NOVOMATIC or on the other side of the casinos? And if these Members then let us judge that they would have been so happy to come, only BZÖ, FPÖ, ÖVP and SPÖ did not let them come, then I must say that was the Faymann number on Member's level. And yet – I give everyone right, even my colleague Pendl and Amon –: Yeah, we've achieved a lot. That's why we're being turned off because we've achieved so much. Imagine that a federal government would have to resign because it brings a lot together. There is no danger in the current Federal Government. [[Sociability and consolation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] If that were the rule in this Republic, then this Federal Government would have to remain in office forever. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But imagine, everything that works successfully must be ended in this Republic, and everything that is unsuccessful must continue. This is obviously the new political principle of action by SPÖ and ÖVP. If the investigation committee were unsuccessful, he could continue to work, then perhaps even the Federal Chancellor would come. But he's successful. So you've got to finish. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, not with the Committee of Inquiry, but with your handling of parliamentary control must end! It's enough! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's enough of what you've done here. Yes, we were successful in this investigation committee. We first and foremost had the task of examining the major projects of the governments of Schüssel/Grasser. And that's where we found a lot. There we have found a system of organised corruption, where we have found a system of organized plundering of public property, and there we have found a system of systematically eliminating control by criminal justice and Parliament. There has been no investigation committee all the time – ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and BZÖ know it as well as we know – because there has been an agreement between ÖVP and FPÖ as long as there is a bowl, there is no investigation committee. And the FPÖ has kept a word. There really was no investigation committee in time. We have successfully examined the Grasser system, the most modern system of political corruption in Austria. That was never party funding. Karl-Heinz Grasser never thought of a party. When he was in the FPÖ, the party was wreathed to him when he was in the BZÖ, and when he was finished in the ÖVP, this party was finally wreaked on him. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: In BZÖ he was never!]] For Karl-Heinz Grasser, there was only one party – and it has been called Karl-Heinz Grasser, and it has created something new, namely the Friends Economy. It was not crucial that Grasser wanted and could, but that he had left government parties. Mr Strache, tell us how you, when you were sitting with Grasser in the Federal Board of Directors of the FPÖ, always said: Karl-Heinz Grasser, but now it's over! Now I'll call you to account! - You didn't do any muckser! You were peacefully sitting next to Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. Strache: Newspaper! Since 2002! Don't you read a paper?]] You were eating grass, and only when grass was no longer a freeman did you mean: Jessas! Now we are liberals against Karl-Heinz Grasser. It's a grass-retardant. Grasser is laid down by the FPÖ, it is laid down by the BZÖ, by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: We never had him!]] Say: Where, then, should the “poor ” grass be laid if it is already laid down by three parties? That's unworthy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly, We have examined the question of buying law and have seen – and this is worrying enough – that Members and perhaps whole groups of this House can not only be bought by organized gambling. But we were not allowed to investigate this because the MEPs were taboo for us, as was the honourable Member Westenthal. We have examined the issue of awarding and have encountered the same system in the case of blue-light radio, with backmen like Mensdorff-Pouilly and companies like Valorex, as with the Eurofighters. It's an identical system, it's identical companies. We have also begun to investigate the question of media corruption. And there it has become very delicate, because we have not only assumed the responsibility of politicians and government members, but also of those responsible in publishers and editorial staff. And we know from this committee of inquiry how important it is in the fight against media corruption and the purchase of public opinion that, as in the past, publishers and editors are being cleanly separated again. And it should not be like “ÖsterREICH”, where you never know if you have to deal with the chief editor or the top ad-advertiser, and usually you can assume that the editor-in-chief is just trying to get ads back and writing stories at the same time. – This is the basis for media corruption. Wolfgang Fellner is not, because of his personality, a key person together with Werner Faymann in the question of media corruption, but because there is a way in which publishers and editors are filtered together, the separation is denied, and all the basic laws of clean journalism are disregarded, as has not been done so far in the Republic. If the British Parliament is self-confident enough to invite a media sar like Rupert Murdoch, it would have been a good thing for us to do some much, much smaller media responsibility, not only from “ÖsterREICH”, but also from the “Kronen Zeitung” – and this is not directed against the many qualified journalists in both homes, that is not at all the point – to ask even once. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The previous issue: The award of citizenship. Mr. Koloini from Carinthia – is he blue or orange right now? Please, help me! Or maybe even Stronach?, I don't know, I'm often not up-to-date, you're doing a lot too fast – described the following system before the prosecutor: secret savings books at the people's banks from citizenship purchases, which were made possible by the liberals. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: By the Greens!]] Mr Amon, you have said the untruth. The Committee has made it clear – see the Stenographical Protocols and Documents! – that German Chancellor Schüssel gave an instruction in the representation of the Minister of the Interior in his last days of office. [[Abg. Amon: That's not true! Read it!]] Mr Vogl, head of section, said in committee – I quote from the Stenographical Protocol – that: “It must be assumed that this instruction must at least be attributed to the Federal Minister for the Interior.” That was the instructions of the Interior Minister and then Chancellor Schüssel! And here's the instruction, and it's also in front of the investigation committee. [[Abg. Amon: You claimed it! It's not true! Read it, Mr Pilz. No instruction!]] Everything's ahead, and that's the point. And I'm just telling you one thing: The Enlightenment begins only; They won't be able to prevent them. But we will have to ask people in Austria – and I hope in the context of a People's Survey – several questions, as you, as SPÖ and ÖVP, are not willing to allow information in Parliament. We will have to ask them – and this is important for four parties –: Should lawyers be allowed to prosecute corruption crimes in the future, especially illegal party funding?, because that is not yet available in Austria, but very well in Germany. Should these rulings from ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ become cases for the prosecutor if they are illegally financing parties? Secondly, Should the Committee of Inquiry become a minority right? . Let us decide if you are unable to make open, fair, appropriate parliamentary decisions. Thirdly, Let's ask people: Should the Examining Committee be reintroduced? – This will be one of the most important tasks in this House. – Should a successful committee of inquiry, which has shown how valuable a non-corruptible and working Parliament can be, and which has restored confidence in Parliament to an extent that few in policy have succeeded in recent years, be able to work again? If you answer these questions with No by Red and Black, let the Austrian people decide on your place! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4689	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4710	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is not in the interest of this country and also of the citizens that we are now reorganising a mutual mud battle and covering each other with accusations, but I insist that I hold fast to what has actually come out on the basis of the Committee of Inquiry, and on the second, to highlight the consequences of this Committee of Inquiry. I do not wish to take part in this slumber battle that my previous speakers have now organised, consciously, because I believe that it does not do anything at all, that only increases political irration. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Let us stick to the facts, ladies and gentlemen. 1.3 million file pages have read and studied this investigation committee, which is 40 tons of paper, more than six times as high as St. Stephen's. And what has happened to the study of these 1.3 million file pages? – This study has shown that there has always been an entire network of corruption with the same pattern in the Republic of Austria. We have politicians, we have partygoers, we have government members as perpetrators. We have lobbyists and friends of these members of the government as an instigator of criminal acts, we have them as fellow perpetrators. We have also been silent to employees and officials who have partially watched, partly even actively participated. And we always have one that has stayed on the track at the end – and that is the taxpayer, ladies and gentlemen. And that is the shocking thing that this committee of inquiry has promoted in its entirety. With the BUWOG very concrete: Minister Grasser with his friends Meischberger, Hochegger and Plech – a square black corruption magic, as I call it, which has enriched itself here. At Telekom: Boards who have themselves been in their own pocket and have distributed the money towards all the parties of this House – so honestly you must be. Mrs Langthaler has also had to provide information about her Telekom acquisitions and I do not believe that she has been able to explain them crediblely and to disarm them. [[Abg. Amon: billing! Overcrowded bills!]] We have an illustrative round of hunting companies and people – Strasser as a minister, Mensdorff as a lobbyist, Ulmer as an employee who is still active at the Austrian People's Party – who, within the framework of hunting companies, have pushed the funds to each other, up to the ad affair, where government members and cabinet leaders have tried to buy newspapers via advertisements. This is essentially what the Committee of Inquiry has promoted in gross facts. These facts are shocking enough, because now we do not need to have an additional mud battle with any settings that simply do not vote. Nobody needs that. What has been promoted is terrible enough. And now I come to the consequences. One can be proud of this – and that is important to me too – and one should also be allowed to say that so that people also know: Yes, it was horribly promoted. Yes, politics also has the consequences. There is a tighter party financing law, there are stricter corruption rules, there is a lobbyist law, there is a media transparency law that this House has passed; partly unanimously, partly with majority. This too must be said that this self-cleaning process of politics has been substantially triggered by this Committee of Inquiry. It is important to stress this rather than to continue throwing dirt on each other, Mr Pilz. With the consequences, I would like to join – to say that, too, it is very important to me – that the BZÖ, against which there has also been accusations – yes, that is right, and I admit that too – was until today the only party that has also led to internal consequences as a party: human, financial, organisational consequences. Here we are the only ones. Someone has to do this to us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At this point, I would also like to express my full appreciation to my group for having taken along this difficult path, which was not always pleasant, and said: Yes, we also need to undergo this self-cleaning process so that we can step in front of the voters and say yes, mistakes have happened, but we have suffered the consequences. And I'm proud that I can say today, the BZÖ with Josef Bucher is a clean, decent, a good party, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I bring a very concrete example. Our allies Josef Bucher – listen now, ladies and gentlemen! – has announced that the advertising agency “Orange”, mentioned today by the public, will be closed under his supervision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] I can tell you that Josef Bucher kept word. This week, exactly this week, two days ago, after a one-year examination of the Financial Office, where we have provided all the documents – for one year they have been examined! –, green light given that this winding-up process can now be completed. This means that the advertising agency “Orange”, which has also been accused here in the center, is liquidated. With this, Josef Bucher has kept word and has provided clean conditions in his party. And that is what people in this country should know. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] After a one-year examination by the Financial Office has given green light to the liquidation of this company, the cancellation of this company will also take place in the next few days. This company is no longer existing under Josef Bucher, and thus such operations will never happen again. I can promise this to the people of this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And I expect this self-cleaning process now also from the other parties. We have agreed to the loading of each person. A double-digit number of BZÖ and also FPÖ politicians and officials was in the Committee, of the Reds one with Ostermayer. There is still a Mr Gartlehner sitting in your ranks today, against which there are serious accusations. [[towards SPÖ]] We have excluded from the party persons who have something to blame, including even a former vice-chancer. Someone has to do this to us. With the blacks it's the same thing: There were no consequences. This organized network of illegal party funding through the Farmers' Federation will continue until finally, on the basis of our ad, the judicial system also ends this corrupt system. And it will also be taken care of, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And I can still make some corrections in the end, because it is also important to me to say this: I always want to stick to the facts. I also said that there have been mistakes in BZÖ and we have suffered the consequences. But I do not allow ourselves to be subordinated to things that simply do not vote: Mr. Rosenkranz, in 2008, there were no Telekom payments to BZÖ, which is simply wrong. With regard to gambling, Mr Pilz, we need To read only today’s edition of the “standard”; it’s rather oriented towards you, it’s certainly not a newspaper that is friendly to the BZÖ. What has the “standard ” found on the subject of gambling today? – “The accusation that the BZÖ had been bought by Casinos Austria is not confirmed”. This has also been the result of this Committee of Inquiry. We ourselves have been involved in the investigation and have had to conclude that these accusations are not true. Also the subordinated purchase of law at the Universal Service Regulation could not be confirmed. All officials have said: no law purchase. This is a good, right regulation – which is still in force today, which has even been confirmed by Mrs Bures, who, through this Gorbach regulation, has commissioned his own 40-page opinion, which has come to the conclusion that this regulation is good, right and important for this country; therefore, it is still in force. You also have to stick to this truth, ladies and gentlemen, and you simply should not put wrong things under it. Putting wrong things down is inaccurate. I would like to conclude – and I understand this as an appeal – that we all – and this is also a lesson from this committee of inquiry – need to improve, all to work clean and decently and to think that we are obliged to the voters, the taxpayer and the taxpayer, and no one else – no billionaire from Canada, no sheet, no grass, no one – always only to the voters, for of these we have the task of representing the interests of the Republic of Austria. That's the job we've got. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'm hoping for this better one. I also believe that it works that this committee is an important step because it has created awareness that corruption is taking place in this country, because some of them are now becoming a little more cautious in what they do and leave. I also believe that, not least, the laws that we have agreed together ensure that we have not completely disappeared from this network of corruption which I have addressed – it would be an illusion to believe – but that we have fought a great deal, that we could partially break this network and in this country have been able to miss out a little bit and ensure cleanliness. I wish this process would continue. The BZÖ has completed it under Josef Bucher. We can take a clean and elevated lead next year before the voters and voters. I am proud of this and thank our ally for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4841	I should like to point out to those responsible for the club that there are still the following speaking times available for the last two rounds of speakers: SPÖ 6 minutes, ÖVP 7 minutes, FPÖ 3 minutes, Green no more speaking time, BZÖ 2 minutes. Even that's probably not going to happen until 1 p.m., so I'm asking you to post it. Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. Fixed speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e4865	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should also today take the opportunity to correct certain things and, in particular, to close the gaps of memory which I have discovered in particular with my colleague, Mr Vilimsky. They're distraction tests, that's clear. As the Federal Managing Director of the FPÖ, you will be paid for the fact that you will only point to the ads. [[Abg. Strache: He is not a Federal Managing Director!]] But I would like to say that we have examined payments in this committee of inquiry, where it was about corruption, where millions have flown, and that this is not comparable to an advertisement link. Think of Meischberger, think of Grasser, think of Strasser, think of Mensdorff-Pouilly! – That was corruption! Mr Ostermayer, State Secretary, spoke and replied to the Committee of Inquiry, and the question was: What's left of your accusations? [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Why did you not interest Mr. Wehinger and the leatherman?]] Nothing, nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then, in the debate today, it was also possible to see why so many – of a double-digit number – have been invited to the Investigation Committee, a double-digit number of persons close to BZÖ and FPÖ. [[Abg. Neubauer: What has Mr. Faymann to hide?]] . We have examined the painting that happened between 2000 and 2006, during your government membership, and then it is clear that on the one hand, we need to investigate more of the FPÖ and BZÖ-near groups than the SPÖ did. [[Abg. New builder: Faymann!]] But what did we do now? – We have examined payments to Hochegger. The Telekom and the Mobilkom paid a total of 38 million to Peter Hochegger or to the companies that he could see. [[Abg. Ing. Eben! The partner of Hochegger was the Eccher!]] Between 2004 and 2008 € 7.6 million went from Telekom to Hocheggers Valora. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: 1 million leathermen!]] At the invitation of Hochegger, Telekom transferred €720 000 to the BZÖ-near agency Schmied GmbH in September 2006. In December 2004 Deutsche Telekom also paid € 192 000 to the “Neue Freie Zeitung”, whose managing director Herbert Kicklist – which is also questionable. €600 000 went from Telekom to the “mediaConnection” by Gernot Rumpold for four studies, of which only the cover sheets have been received. 79 000 € flowed from Valora to Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly. He did so with his hunting companies in Scotland, and what we could still hear in the investigation committee, but he did a lot of painting. The courts are now dealing with these cases. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Was Mr. Rahimi hunting too?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we should make one clear, precisely because today we are also dealing with the report by Mr Rosenkranz: This committee of inquiry was one of the most successful committees of inquiry we have held in this Parliament. And why? – Because we have really clarified because, above all, we have political responsibilities to clarify – and this is often confused in the public. Political responsibilities – we are not an Inquisition court, we are not a Court of Justice, no, we are not! We have decided on the legislative proposals, which are also the result of this committee of inquiry. Since we talked about advertising earlier, I must say that honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, thank you for your advertising! [[Keeping a red panel in height, which can be read in white paper, among other things: “Sonja Steßl-Mühlbacher SPÖ: A voice for cover-up”]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: neither ASFINAG nor ÖBB!]] [[Cheerfulness with FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: This is not advertising!]] When I look at the listing and see “Green Club in Parliament”, I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: Did you pay with your club contributions you received? [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Neither!]] Did you pay for this with taxpayers' money? You might want to examine that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we are all Members of this House, and we should all meet with respect. I don't see any respect for this listing. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Higher please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: How did you need the Greens to advertise you?]] When I get up on the motorway, when I drive to Vienna, I see a poster from the Greens, with the chairman Glavischnig, there says: “Dog percent organic, zero percent corrupt.” – I would like to add: 100 percent seek, criminalize and evade. That's what you're doing! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Coming to the end: This committee of inquiry was quite successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5080	Please pay attention to the time! She's gone.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5101	Legal provisions have been adopted, and this should remain as a result. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It is a matter of voting!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5139	Next speaker: Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. 6 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5160	Mr President. High house! What is the aim of a parliamentary committee of inquiry? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Turn an advertisement on!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Kogler, what is the aim of a parliamentary committee of inquiry? – The aim of a parliamentary committee of inquiry is to clarify political responsibility – well-notified political responsibility! – and not the criminal law. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] I know there's at least one in the house right now who likes to see himself as the Supreme Judge. But we're not a court. We would rather leave that to those who can, our independent judges. In any case, we MEPs have to explain: Where are the abuses? Who has misused tax money and who is also responsible for it? And at least we have the consequences to draw. And, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we have done with this committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whether from a government party or from the opposition, we MEPs have all really tried intensively and consistently – I was almost always in the committee – and studied very, very, very many files. We also discussed and discussed this in many meetings. These figures have already been mentioned. And I really want to pay tribute to everyone and everyone who has participated in this committee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And this also shows that this very intensive work has also been effective. We have already suffered the consequences here in Parliament. We have decided in Parliament a package of transparency in which the promotion of parties and the donation of the parties are re-regulated. The lobbying was subject to new rules. The law on corruption, the inconsistency for Members and the media transparency law have already been implemented – by all of us in common. And we should be proud of that. In this context, thanks also to all staff members of the Parliamentary Directorate, but also to all employees in the clubs. There were many, many hours that you have really finished and used, and without your support and without your expertise our work would not have been possible. I would also like to express my express thanks to our committee chairman since September, to Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. I really thank you for this sovereign and above all very competent presidency. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Anyone who participated in the last meetings of the Committee of Inquiry and saw just how demanding this presidency was, he knows what I am talking about. There were enough media representatives there who knew exactly what was done here. It has also shown the importance of competence and independence, for this cannot always be claimed from the previous meetings. But now on the prove theme Telekom. The Telekom case is indeed – it has already been said today – a criminal case. This case shows us quite clearly, some greedy managers have collected bonuses about course manipulations. I am convinced that this criminal case will also have criminal consequences. The main culprit was in this case the deputies, Mr Schieszler, and I hope that the judicial system too has carefully considered and acted upon its approach to what is going on in the form of the deputies. It has already been said today that it has been very difficult, of course, by the parallel investigations of the public prosecutor's office and in our committee, even for the information workers. It is then quite logical and obvious that some persons have used their right of withdrawal. We have taken note of this right of censure, but not of Mr Pilz. The way in which he was interviewed was sometimes unworthy of a Member of this House, yes, I would like to say, despicable. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For this Lord there were real plotions and conspiracy theories on the agenda. But, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, I think self-activators like him have an expiry date and are really a run-out model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Head: The Greens would like that too, I believe!]] As a summary, however, I would like to add a few points in the end. In the future, when we set up a committee of inquiry, we need precise specifications, clearly defined issues, a competent Presidency, but above all also serious issues. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: To be silent!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5294	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5316	Mr President. I come to the important things, first of all to my thanks to Obmann Rosenkranz, who has also said in his objective report: There's really a lot that we've been refused here! I think that is exactly the point that Mr Amon used in his criticism when he said that it was not objective. – There are only a few of them at the ÖVP. But that was exactly this abuse of the question time, the documents that led to it: If one does not receive the information you really need, what should one do differently from this so-called abuse by quoting from documents? – This is the only way for the public to know what actually happened. – That’s the point, please! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where else would we have learned that this wonderful big BUWOG scandal also includes Mayor Dobusch, who had his deal with Mr. Scharinger, where Mr. Mayor Dobusch, so to speak, gave him a private opinion?- Oh, my God! – That’s exactly the point where you need to find out by quoting from documents! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, I do not really understand your criticism of Mr Pilz. He is the self-proclaimed major inquisitor. He is the master of personal distress in all situations of life. Please let him have this joy! He'll bring something together, too. The 10 percent of all the things he's telling us that's really true, we're going to get on it, and the 90 percent of the rest isn't getting into the media anyway. - Well, you don't have to do so much theater. He's just in his element. Mr Pendl, Mr Steßl, when you say: Millions of corruption is not the same as ads. They were for the ÖBB. – First of all, it was the same amount of millions, and secondly, in the survey with the ÖBB managers, we also made it quite clear that this was not for the ÖBB. The ÖBB people have even said clearly: We were presented as on the cheap market! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That wasn't for the ÖBB! And everything that constitutes an order – from planning to the realization of the individual details to accounting – all that Ostermayer said – that was from the ÖBB anyway! – has been disproved. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Read the Court of Auditors report! Read the protocols!]] There was no planning. There was no single mandate. The texts were not from the ÖBB, which were from the newspapers and from the ministry. There is also nothing to help you, Mr Schickhofer, and Mrs Steßl's. That was the cheapest defense that came to your mind when you asked the Secretary of State Ostermayer whether he was doing well and what he was doing in his working time. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Take note of the political responsibility and note: Political responsibility is not what Mr Blecha does, who says after six dead, according to the suppression of evidence [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] I take note of all of this! – and continues as before.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5392	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5414	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by saying to my previous speakers that the Examining Committee has done a good job, that much has been promoted, much has been done, that there have been a number of legislative amendments as a result, and that the setting up of this Examining Committee has been good and correct. I must, however, make an accusation to the ladies and gentlemen, above all of SPÖ and ÖVP, and say clearly that they cannot take responsibility here, because, through their long, decades of involvement in various forms of government, they are responsible for the fact that there are these scandals that there is a misunderstanding that there is waste, a lack of tax money. – You have to say that, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The ad affair Faymann is obvious, we spoke yesterday about the ad affair Berlakovich: These are things, stories that really concern the Austrians. I ask you: Are you proud of your policy? What do you say to the people in the constituency? What do you say to people at events? What do you say to your electorate when you are addressed, or do you no longer have any contact with the citizens? Its own party base – I mentioned it yesterday – has punished its chancellor with the worst result in recent party history, without candidates. In addition, there have been interviews with renowned SPÖ personalities – in particular, I should like to mention Mr Kaiser from Carinthia, Mr Swoboda, Head of Delegation of the EU Group, Mr Ritsch from Vorarlberg – and all of them have said in their opinions that the advertising causa and the fact that Faymann did not take part in the investigation committee have led to this bad outcome, ladies and gentlemen! To the address of FPÖ and Greens: Don't let them repeat untruths here, repeat untruths a hundred times, they won't become more true! There was no funding of Deutsche Telekom in 2008. Stefan Petzner also rejected Mr Pilz's accusations. I believe that you should come before your own door, that perhaps even once the social housing of Mr Pilz should be discussed, or that perhaps the inclusion of Austria by the FPÖ should also be addressed, for which amounts of tax money are applied, only to satisfy the personal sensitivity of the objector, so that he can laugh everywhere from the posters and also Mr Kickl can live well on it. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make it quite clear here that it was Jörg Haider, who came to the end of the 1980s, at the beginning of the 1990s, with the start of this system of the party book economy, of the friendly economy, he has taken action to push in this direction, and he has achieved very, very much. He has prepared the way for us to continue. He's discovered a lot. Jörg Haider is to be thanked for the clarification that there is more transparency and more control, ladies and gentlemen, too! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from the BZÖ continue this path, we have started to work on the discovery. I should just like to remind you that Mr Grosz has put in place the recent scandal of "inserator" Berlakovich with a parliamentary request. The Court of Auditors then became active, there was a raw report, and we held the special meeting on Monday, ladies and gentlemen. From this point of view, I would like to thank my colleague Stefan Petzner very much for his excellent work in the Committee of Inquiry. This shows once again: Quality before quantity! Stefan Petzner was the only representative of the BZÖ, and I think he was the best representative in the committee, he did the best educational work there, although he was the only BZÖ representative. [[OBJECTIVES]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not only do we want to deal with scandals and shake each other – this has been mentioned more often by this speaker’s chair today – but we also take care of the problems of Austrians, we do what we have been elected for. We comply with our electorate, for example with our model of the “Fair Tax”. 39 per cent of the uniform tax rate, which we have discussed, was put on the table, by red and black, it was rejected, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I want to You appeal: Return to the origin, think about what you're for, what you're for and what you're supposed to do! [[Abg. Steibl: This is a “hofer” advertising!]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP: “Hofer” advertising!]] – That’s a “hofer” advertising, yes, and if you want to advertise for a big food discount now, then you’ll be stupid, but this saying can be used. Maybe you'll follow my words. Think about what you are for as a politician who has elected you think about it – next year is a big election year before – and write it behind your ears! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5513	Mr Klubobmann Strache referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5537	Mr. Peter Pilz has claimed that I should have been in a Federal Party Board of FPÖ with Karl-Heinz Grasser. I'm correcting: That's wrong! I never sat with Karl-Heinz Grasser at the Federal Party Board of the FPÖ. Mr. Karl-Heinz Grasser, in 2002, when I was not yet in the Federal Party Board of FPÖ for a long time – I came to the Federal Party Board only almost three years later when I became state chairman of Vienna – the FPÖ, as you know, left and changed to the ÖVP. Mr Pilz has also said the untruth by claiming that I would never have held Grasser public or internally accountable. The right thing is: I have demonstrated in the years 2000 to 2002 – even publicly in several “press” guest comments, also in guest comments from other media, also in press releases – to Knittelfeld massively and strongly public criticism of Karl-Heinz Grasser due to his links, his Ich-AG and also the Eurofighter affair, which ultimately led to his change to the ÖVP. Mr. Peter Pilz also claimed that Grasser should have been at the BZÖ – I am doing this for you now: [[towards BZÖ]] Grasser was never at BZÖ! This too should be made clear and correct. When so many untruths are listed, that only shows what is true in the end: Mr. Peter Pilz obviously needed political education, which would be very good for him.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5586	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schickhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5608	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the Committee of Inquiry, I have learned that green information policy can also be differentiated, objective and fair. I would therefore like to begin with a quote from Mrs. Moser on the ads: I know it is a high quality difference, a very high qualitative difference between economies in their own pocket, corruption and bribery and an advertising policy that can then somehow be booked on the political account. – I believe that this has once made Mrs. Dr. Moser a very, very substantial differentiation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As we have now discussed so intensively who has not come to the committee, I think it is necessary to recognise the statements made by those who have spoken before this committee of inquiry, also on the subject of advertising. This was, for example, the head of company communication in the area of ASFINAG, Mag. Marc Zimmermann. I asked him if there were any instructions, orders. He then clearly stated – I quote from the Stenographical Protocol – that “() in the legal sense you are right. () We have carried out the mandate, the order confirmations received, the invoices are material and calculated for correctly perceived and transferred the amount.” What was still important? Zimmermann: “I was important that we had the authority of content at the time. We have decided on the topics that we bring.” – So the company, just as it belongs. “We have also taken the graphics from the departments, the photos from the various ASFINAG departments to design ads (). It was also true that none of the cooperations, for example, had the counterfee of Federal Minister Faymann, so it was really only ASFINAG content to read.” That was the statement of the head of corporate communications. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Where does he work?]] I then summarized his statements as follows – quotations from the Stenographical Protocol –: ‘There were no engagements () without the approval of the Executive Board.’ [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: That's all we've done!]] I quote: “Insects were initiated but never commissioned. The ads were useful and necessary, and the advertising cooperations were under the usual tariff.’ [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: “By my honor”!]] Zimmermann finally confirmed this. We also asked the head of the ÖBB's Group Communication, who made some notes because there were orders somewhere. He then spoke about it with the competent board, Mr. Huber, and he told him – I quote Mr. Mag. Walter Sattlberger –: “We don’t let anything buy, we do things ourselves.” These were clear testimony that the advertising circuits in the area of Asfinag, in the field of the ÖBB, were decided and designed and paid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They do not assign any witnesses to the SPÖ, but I would nevertheless like to show the statements of the press spokespersons of Federal Chancellor Faymann, who have also declared under the obligation of truth. I asked them if they were aware that they did not interfere at all in the internal processes of the ÖBB and the Asfinag. You confirmed that. Of course, it was the task of the chancellor not to interfere with it, perhaps to discuss things, but never to give orders. The same has also confirmed Press Spokesman Kotlowski once again. It was perfectly clear that no orders are awarded to ÖBB or Asfinag. That means that what you are constructing here in many areas simply does not correspond to the statements in the investigation committee. This must be held once again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Everything super-clean!]] To get back to what Gabriela Moser said, you can somehow try to book it on a political account: Just to prevent this and completely exclude it, we have passed the Media Transparency Act so that everything is clearly and transparently regulated in the future. So it should be: that if you have the slightest presumption somewhere, that perhaps something politically might be unexplained, you will immediately have consequences and pass laws. I would like to conclude by summarizing Mrs Gabriela Moser's report on the Committee of Inquiry: The investigative committee has retired financially, politically, morally and legally. It really followed a reform legislation. I thank you for this constructive cooperation. We should now present the facts, the statements made in the investigation committee, and together be proud of this comprehensive act, which we have adopted on the basis of the findings of this investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5704	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5725	Mr President. High house! When a surgeon sees an eggbowl, he probably won't stick to a patch, because then the whole body would sometime be "shattered" – "dead" we call that evil in medicine – but he will remove it. The committee of inquiry, for example, appears to me in Parliament. There have been a lot of surgeons, and – Mrs Moser himself has said it – it has succeeded in providing very much information. It was a very successful committee with one word. For those who have not been there – I have been there for some time – I must say quite honestly that I read 1.3 million pages and draw conclusions from them is already remarkable. To question more than 100 witnesses was a great achievement of all parties. Corruption has already been done to Caesar, to Napoleon – you can read that – and yesterday we heard that EU Health Commissioner Dalli has resigned for suspicion of corruption. So it is not about us now being able to invent or abolish corruption in Austria. Where there is money, there is probably greed, where there is greed, there is probably misbehavior, but the decisive thing is – and in this regard the Committee has done a great deal – that we should first signal to everyone that light can be brought into the dark and that we want to say, second, that we MEPs want to create a consciousness in the state, that, as a model, we strongly reject such actions, and thirdly, that there are consequences, personal consequences, but also political consequences such as the anti-corruption package and, of course, we are not parallel court. Trust is the basic element of parliamentary democracy. What we don't want is this Pilz's democracy. He is an attorney, prosecutor and judge in one, and he likes to apply people by, for example, maiming Deputies Werner Amon with all the others as accused, as if he had put in 10 million or so. He did not, of course, do that, he was ultimately responsible for a ridiculous listing. What I don't like very much is the BZÖ's approach, which first calls for: Keep the thief, we all clean up now!, and then just wipe away nine pages of advice. [[Abg. Booker: We never did that, Mr. Rasinger!]] Mr Rosenkranz said that 300 000 had flown there towards BZÖ. Nevertheless, it says now: Hold the thief! Petzner gives himself a General Holiness and says “we all”, and at the same time, MP Bucher says that corrupt blades are grassing around in his party. I would like to say, coming to the end, because I also want to defend someone I really know very well and who really comes to the handcushion unjustly: I know ex-Bundeskanzler Wolfgang Schüssel like my west pocket, and I can tell you he didn't even infect anything, not even a cent, lives modestly, and he didn't tolerate it either. Unfortunately, corruption is not bound to the big bell, but must be researched laboriously. I'm just saying, 1.3 million pages, I'm just saying that several prosecutors have been working on it for several years and are trying to get light into the dark on account openings. That's why I feel it's unfair when you're all working on a wiper. To this famous citizenship affair, there has been no guidance from then Minister Bartenstein or Wolfgang Schüssel. – It would also be important to say that the salvation of honor is important once. All in all, it was a very good committee. I do not think that there is a trace of an early turn-off, Mrs Moser, but the issues have been properly dealt with in a year. Who knows what else will come out of the courts? To sum up, as has been said, a very, very successful committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5762	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5783	Mr President. High house! It is already a strange argument of the ÖVP, when it says that the committee was excellent, has worked great – that says also the SPÖ Group – but turns it off! It's not like we've cleared up everything, Mr Rasinger! This committee has done a good job. For the BZÖ, Stefan Petzner has made a good appearance and has also shown a lot. We have dealt with the Telekom, the Blue Light Radio, the BUWOG and also the gambling, but we have remained open, Mr Rasinger, are the Telekom East business, the advertising affair around Faymann to Berlakovich, which also affects the ÖVP, and the issue with citizenship. I ask you, and this is what every citizen in the country is asking, right up to the party base of the SPÖ, you have received the bill at the party conference: Why did you turn off this good, successful investigation committee? Explain this to people outside! I don't understand, and people outside don't understand. You rightly have a rage on politicians who are sent out by party secretariats – two “performers”, I say, Mr Amon and Mr Pendl; I can still remember the “time in Figure 2” in which you have occurred – and try to explain with cockeyed arguments why the investigation committee needs to be turned off now. To date, they have not put on the table any objective, reasonable, understandable argument as to why this is so. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But we have achieved a few small results in the matter, in which we agree. We have intensified corruption law, and we have removed the media transparency law from baptism. We have also created the Party Finance Act, which can be discussed again: The level of party funding in this country is still a great deal of gray. A little more transparency has been brought in, but the sums are really not to be argued. In the end, these one-sided wilfuls of ÖVP and SPÖ have done a great deal of damage to democracy, and have done a great deal of damage to politics – Mr Prehauser, to politics and also to parliamentarianism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prehauser]] One of Parliament's most important tasks is to carry out control functions. You have undermined this; that would not be possible if the Committee of Inquiry were to have a minority right as it was in Germany. You should think about these things, namely who is harming democracy here. And then you should also consider why the ÖVP is already less than 20 percent, the SPÖ is not as good as publicly represented by purchased surveys and media that feed you neatly with ads. You also move towards 20 percent. You have to think about why this is so, because these are the reasons if you're in here. Don't worry about the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! After the next election, the BZÖ will be very strongly represented here in the National Council. That's not a subject at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have carried out a self-cleaning process – and this has been very clearly explained by Mr Petzner. We were the only ones who cooperated with the prosecutor's office. If anyone had dirt on us, he'd been handed out, he'd been excluded, he'd be ratzfatz away. This is the BZÖ under Josef Bucher Da is made order! With you is the one who has advertised ads on tax pay costs to get favors, Federal Chancellor, dear friends of the SPÖ. Take note of this! There you have to think about whether you need action in this regard. That is, if you are doing an overall view of what is now necessary, then you need to continue the investigation committee at the moment and not undermine its work. You would also have to agree to the BZÖ's request. Because you always hear that FPÖ and BZÖ are these evil parties at the hypo – well, then we'll explain that! There is a request. Let us clarify the Causa Hypo in the investigation committee, but also the municipal credit where the SPÖ hangs deep inside, and also those banks where the ÖVP hangs inside! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Not always point your finger at others! Let us make the banking sector order, even as far as these banks are concerned, and I am excited about what is going to happen. As a result of these great results of the Committee of Inquiry, justice is also required and required. I am then excited to see in which direction the judiciary determines whether it is really independent, is free to carry out the investigations properly, whether, in turn, only opposition parties are confronted with any misguided charges of prosecutors or whether the bank really cleans up. However, it is also required by the President-in-Office of the Council. I don't hear from him at all. I wonder why the President-in-Office, as a protector of the Constitution, as a protector of parliamentarism and control, finds no clear words in this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Our President!]] – He is your President, he has been nominated by SPÖ. He was also here in the House once President. Where are his words? – He covers you, he covers these mistakes. He doesn't say he's silent. And then I wonder, Do we still need this office in this way, or do we just do it? If he doesn't respond here, he's completely unnecessary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to force you to learn special sessions, but we will also need to do one to regain the confidence of citizens in order to better involve citizens in the form of direct democracy: Yesterday we found evidence from the ÖVP and the SPÖ that you are not prepared to do so, even in committees. ==References== In January 2013, there will be a referendum that can be discussed in the matter. We have proposed: Let us also vote on basic things, such as the question: Do we want to continue to be in this euro zone that is ruining and destroying our strength, our tax money, our tax billions? Is that what we want? Or do we want more fairer taxes to relieve the middle class? Do we want an administrative reform at all corners and ends with the abolition of the Pragmatization of officials? Do we want a common school of the 6- to 14-year-olds? These are topics that burn people under the nails and about which one can also question them. We have invited you to vote on this. And you said no. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Make It's so quiet! They will eventually be elected by angry citizens next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5877	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5898	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! They have had a heated discussion in plenary today about reporting on the Committee of Inquiry. The rapporteur, Mr Rosenkranz, has, in general, made quite an objective report on the process. However, it has also been argued by all parties that this investigation committee has been successful, as some legal changes have already been made. These were important in order to eliminate misunderstandings, but also to define legal “insurances” – under quotation marks – more clearly. However, this Committee of Inquiry has also shown weaknesses. That is why we are called upon to develop a new Rules of Procedure. And here we are from the SPÖ for a minority right. We want the procedure to be changed. The questions we have to deal with as a clear mission for future committees of inquiry are as follows: What about the public? With secret documents? With the official secret? Do we need an arbitration court? Is this to be used? And the role of respondents is also to be clarified. The above weaknesses were also the cause of the end of this committee of inquiry – which has ended or expired, one has to say. Although Mr Moser worked very objectively for some time, she made a serious mistake when she did not accept a four-party request. It would have been nice if the colleague here at the speaker's desk had accepted this mistake and had not defended it. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We also know that the colleague as committee chairman was driven by her own party colleagues. We know this because Mrs Moser himself said – and there are records about it – that we will end this committee of inquiry in autumn. And we have clearly heard from Mr Pilz: That can't be, here needs to be extended. – This tension was not easy for the chairman either. That is why, as has been said, we need to amend the Rules of Procedure, and we will all be invited to cooperate. We in our party already have some interesting ideas in this regard. I would like to look back here before I come to the real core to speak the blue light radio and to observe that there are politicians that there have been officials who have seen the state as a self-service shop. They've enriched themselves, they've given individual parties money, and that's not all right. We have to make clear rules here, and this is what we have done with various legal changes. To the blue light radio: a good project, a sensible project. It was necessary to give all blue light organizations the opportunity to communicate with each other in a serious case. The idea is all right, also the objective, but the implementation of the project was dilettant. This is not the statement by me alone, but by many experts who have made these statements in the committee of inquiry. It was known from the beginning that 70,000 participants are necessary to have a budget of approximately €72 million annually so that this project can be implemented. There were 1 300 stations, 15 years of operational management and a total of about €1.2 billion planned. All this was planned, which was already recognizable to everyone at the conclusion of the contract. As far as the figures are concerned, I would like to work on the following point. A former Interior Minister or his officials signed a contract, although only €22 million of the budget was available. € 22 million, although € 72 million would have been necessary. I would like to refer here to a question by Mr Werner Amon from the Stenographical Protocol of the Committee of Inquiry: “Are you informed at this time about the costs that arise for the resort?” reply by Dr. Ernst Strasser: “Yes, that will have been the case. I have no concrete memory of this now, but of course, a project always has a decisive impact on what it costs.” Further statement by Dr. Ernst Strasser: “The Ministry of Finance has agreed after the discussions that have taken place at the level of officials, otherwise the project could not have been completed.” That is to say, the Minister also knew how much budget is needed in order to implement this system. And if he, including the Committee, says that he was not responsible for the countries, he would have had to include at least these 72 million in his budget, and not only 22. I am excited, ladies and gentlemen, but we are not the courts; this must be clarified by the courts, by the judicial system, we are only responsible for political responsibility. [[Abg. Petzner: The Procuratorate has just announced that against Bures it is determined for ads! - Are you saying something about that?]] But now it's going on. The former Minister of the Interior not only supported a few people in this area, and I think that was the reason why master talk was finally cancelled: because the budget was simply not available. It was a certain Major General Skorsch who not only had an all-in contract here, so he received a monthly payment and also paid the overtime with this contract, but also took up a secondary activity and received a total of €126,000 for this ancillary activity. There was a Dr. Christoph Ulmer, whose ex-wife also has money from the benefits – “benefits” cannot actually be said. It has been asked what performance has been provided by Mrs. Kerimi, but there was no answer, and even managers of Motorola have said that they did not know what performance Mrs. Kerim had provided. But there was also a Count Mensdorff who played a very active role. I can quote a few things here: According to the latest documents, about 1.9 million lubrication money has been paid to Mensdorff-Pouilly. – Motorola has budgeted over €4 million for lubricating money. – Motorola wants to put the TETRON construction site at last and finally ad acta. – Representatives of the US group had confirmed the lubricating payments before the public prosecutor's office in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that a great deal has happened at the expense of the Republic of Austria, our country and the taxpayers, and we have already made some necessary changes here. [[Abg. Petzner: What do you say to the Bures?]] I invite you all to work together to develop a minority right for the new committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5956	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e5993	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This investigation committee was extremely successful. He was the most successful investigative committee in the Second Republic, and there have already been numerous legislative consequences. The results of the investigation committee showed, among other things, an inconceivable interplay of close-to-state companies, e.g. Telekom AG, with those then politically responsible, which led to the most lucrative advisory agreements, unexplained commission flows, sham contracts and sham transactions in millions and associated illegal party financing. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is no longer possible to present here all the details we have worked out and discussed in the Committee. Allow me, however, to highlight some examples. I agree with the chairman, Mr Rosenkranz, that justice is now on the train and that the criminal law side has to be examined, but there is also a civil law side. In our view, it is also necessary to examine the possibilities of civil law, namely whether commissions that have been wrongly paid must be repaid and liability claims of the persons concerned can be filed. Not only is Deutsche Telekom required, but the Federal Ministries concerned are also called upon to take appropriate action. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This investigation committee was particularly successful in the Telekom chapter and in the Real Estate chapter, namely the privatisation of the federal housing companies, but not only with them. This is clearly comprehensible by the Stenographical Protocols. The money-bending of Deutsche Telekom to high-egger and other persons and its distribution without any evidence of performance revealed infidelity and lubricating payments. “What was my performance?” shows the prepotence of one of these people, namely Walter Meischberger, who, in the Committee of Inquiry, strongly confirmed this on several occasions, whether payments of €160 000 or € 400 000 are justified for several talks. However, there were also transfers from Telekom funds and from the Austrian lotteries to the BZÖ. I have to make some clarifications to Stefan Petzner. Of course, it is right that the Orange agency has been liquidated, but of course it is also right that there have been payments to this agency and that invoices to Deutsche Telekom have been provided by the Forge agency to the amount of €720 000 for services that have not been provided according to the say of Schmied. For me, Mr Bucher, the question is raised here, and we have already had the opportunity to discuss this: Is it going to repay or not to repay those payments that have been wrongfully made? [[Abg. Bucher: Who?]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: To the SPÖ or who?]] What is it like with the €300 000 for this nine-page report, which has been prepared for the Austrian lotteries? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We could not establish a direct connection with an influence, we can only make assumptions. And one thing is clear, too, and I would like to say this with all clarity: The BZÖ-Agentur Orange and the Schmied Agency was financed by these funds from the BZÖ election campaign. Mr Bucher, all of us here expect a clear statement from you as to whether the BZÖ is willing to repay these funds. [[Abg. Petzner: Does Mr. Lederer pay this?]] However, the large Gauneries took place in the real estate area. I would like to refer not only to the privatisation of the federal housing buildings, but also to the commission flows at Terminal Tower Linz, at the Justice Tower in Vienna and at Nordbergstraße 15. Here was a very interesting development: Whenever a certain person appeared, namely Mr. Plech, there was another buyer and there were unexplained commission flows. So at Nordbergstraße 15, where a Mr. Meischberger cashed €700 000 commission, and Mr. Plech, who caught up with this purchase, although he first wanted to buy the BIG, where he was sitting on the Supervisory Board, also collected €25 000. Therefore, it is not about the triangle Hochegger – Meischberger – Grasser, as Mr Petzner mentioned it at one time, but about the four-sheeted sheet of corruption, namely Hochegger, Meischberger, Plach and Grasser. These were the profiters of these transactions, and against these there are criminal investigations by the corruption prosecutor's office and tax criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Once we were able to experience a star hour in the Committee of Inquiry – and I believe that this must be presented in particular – in the second consultation of Dr. Traumüller. It was a star hour of parliamentarianism because Dr. Traumüller admitted to what we suspected after multiple questions. If he still denied everything to Mr Petzner and to my questions, he also admitted in the course of the questions raised by Mr Pilz, that Grasser had not only a knowledge of the award procedures but was involved. You can read all of this in the Stenographic Protocol with all its clarity. I recommend this reading to each of the Members because it shows how well Members have worked together in the committee of inquiry in the consultation of Dr. Traumüller. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly to the commission flows: I would just like to remind you that the so-called BUWOG scandal is due to a random discovery of the criminal police when a proof of €9.961 million was found, a transfer to the Astropolis. This was followed by a transfer via America, via the state of Delaware to Liechtenstein and in Liechtenstein to mortgage to these three accounts. I would like to present a problem: the anonymous societies in Delaware. I consider it intolerable that in third countries, as in the United States of America, there is the possibility that anonymous societies that have accounts will be established without finding out who is the ones that make these transfers happen. Finally, one more thing: In Austria, there is too little anticorruption awareness, claims economic and social historian Ernst Bruckmüller. There is a lack of awareness of injustice in many people from the puss and the blackwork to hunting invitations and vacation invitations. – This has been clearly demonstrated by this Committee of Inquiry! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentaryism requires control tools to control execution, including an investigation committee. Only, and I would like to say this with all the clarity: There must be a new framework for creating a new rules of procedure. In order to establish political responsibility, it is also necessary to ensure that fundamental rights and personal rights are respected by respondents. Only under these conditions is a further investigation committee possible from the point of view of social democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6075	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6096	Mr President. High house! – I would like to talk about it, but in the first part of my remarks, I would like to focus on the subject of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] When a year ago it was decided to set up a committee of inquiry, I honestly did not believe that this would really happen. I simply did not believe that SPÖ and ÖVP would take the already recognizable risk of making an investigation committee here, especially since they had to know that there might be some unpleasant things going on. They have decided on what I think is very positive, and this has also brought me some joy that there is at last an interest in real education. Some things have also been clarified. We have heard almost daily and again in the news of corruption cases, and no matter how unpleasant that was for the parties, it was a certain catharsis, a cleansing, where one could assume that perhaps in the future things would be better, by being quite honest and genuinely interested in clarifying things. That was, as I see it, a very positive way, but unfortunately this path was abandoned, and I do not fully understand why. This committee was, of course, painful, even for the government parties, and, of course, it is not wise to keep this committee alive if the election campaign is soon to begin, because it could break something every day, that is not a question, but on the other hand. I wonder how an ÖVP or SPÖ politician can believe that this committee can restore confidence in policy. How can this work? How can it work that a good committee, which has shown good things, has shown all kinds of painting that will also lead to convictions, just as I see it, will simply be turned off from today to tomorrow, without waiting for the results and looking at what actually comes out? Of course, it is an advantage for ÖVP and SPÖ to turn this committee off now, in terms of elections, but it is a great disadvantage in terms of honesty and sincerity. The citizens are waiting to find out. The citizens do not believe that we are all infallible, but the citizens want to make sure that all those who have behaved in error are also brought to account accordingly, and that we take care that in the future this cannot happen by making enough good laws to prevent it. That is exactly what this committee could have done! But unfortunately, you turned it off. I can only say one thing: If we are going to negotiate after the next election, this is absolutely unnegotiable. This Committee of Inquiry must be re-established. This is for us a position that is not negotiable. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who do you want to negotiate with?]] Let yourself be surprised, Mr Kogler. Your excitement is not appropriate. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Now I'm coming to the Mr. Bucher. – Mr Bucher has turned out to be here today and has given the best of the following: Not only did he insult Mr Stronach, in a way that I do not want to describe right now, because that was really under every criticism, he also claimed something or put something in a wrong context and claimed criminally relevant things here. Of course, I have a lot of understanding for Mr Bucher – I am glad that he comes in now –: [[Abg. Bucher is just entering the meeting room]] He's in a situation that's very unpleasant, that's not a question. Then: A number of Members have come away from him. That's a very unpleasant story, that's not a question. But maybe you should ask yourself why. This could also be wondered once before simply letting go of a waste of insults here and before simply condemning others in general here. What did Mr Bucher say today? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I have to say this today. Why? Because Mr Bucher said it too. Mr Petzner has also said so. – He claimed that the delegates who have now changed to the Stronach team had been bought. He said that. This is a criminally relevant accusation! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but how is it really?]] And what else did Mr Bucher say? He said that Mr Stronach had offered him 500 000 € in a speech. Him! – He said that today. That's it. And now we have to look at what actually happened. From the beginning, Mr Stronach admitted that there had been this talk and that he would have offered €500 000 as an account payment – there was much more in the conversation – if Mr. Bucher had taken over the values of Frank Stronach with his BZÖ and they would have joined a party. Then this money would have been there to drive a campaign to make known the new values that Mr Bucher did not accept, namely truth, transparency and fairness. [[Abg. Petzner: admitted!]] [[further calls to the BZÖ]] [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] That's the fact! These are the facts! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] That means: Mr Stronach has offered that if the BZÖ would jointly set up a new party, a support of more than €500 000 would be possible. [[further calls to the BZÖ]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again]] That's it. And now we are at the point: Mr Bucher here, may I ask for a moment's rest? [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Look, it might be better if I lied here today, that might be, but I'm telling you what it was like. Frank Stronach, too, has always said he says what it was like; he doesn't need to be ashamed of it. On the contrary! That is absolutely legitimate. It is absolutely legitimate that, if someone establishes a party, he also equips this party with financial resources, otherwise we do, like all the other 930 Austrian parties that have just been established, but which unfortunately do not have any financial resources. So: Mr Bucher has done something that, from my point of view, is worrying. He's got something that's not equal. Then: These €500 000 were intended for the party, for a common campaign, if you, Mr Bucher, had taken over the values of Frank Stronach – what you did not do. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] And you've got that now But you've been referring this to yourself, according to the motto: [[Call at BZÖ: There is no such thing!]] Frank Stronach supports the party, and Mr. Bucher believes it was personal for him.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6297	Ladies and gentlemen, there is enough time for all political groups to discuss. Notices must be made to Parliament's Directorate on who still wants to speak. Mr Lugar is on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6322	I think some people don't like what I'm saying here. What I would like to add is that Mr Bucher refers to this €500 000, which was intended for a joint advertising campaign, personally. Mr Bucher believes – and this is something very interesting – that we have heard from people in the investigation committee over and over again – if someone wants to support the party, he automatically supports Mr Bucher personally, because Mr Bucher does not distinguish between Obmann and the party. That is, for Mr. Bucher, the party of the Obmann and the Obmann is the party – just as Mr. Fauland said in the media. Mr. Fauland has said that Josef Bucherist is the party – and he is right with it, because in a few months it may be so far. [[Abg. Bucher: I have to share!]] I can only tell you one thing, Mr Bucher: You're not the party! Frank Stronach would have made a election movement with you – what he would no longer do in retrospect, of course, that is not a question because you trample on his values such as truth, transparency and fairness by deliberately saying the untruth. Mr Bucher, you know that too – you are not stupid, Mr Bucher, I have known you for a long time: They know that the money was never intended for them personally. It was never intended for you personally! It was intended for a common campaign, for a common electoral movement. I am very glad that you did not accept these values of Mr Stronach at the time and that is why they have not become part of them. That's what I'm half-hearted about. That's why: Stop listening [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: honesty and propriety!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] And if you, Mr. Bucher, stand out here from today and imagine that you have been bought, and I tell you, I, Elisabeth Kaufmann-Bruckberger or anyone else, that you have been bought: [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Then you can stand in front of a judge the proof of truth! I'll give you this opportunity. I'll give you this opportunity! That's why: Be careful with what you say! If you have any evidence of an accusation, then get out of it, then let's go before the judge! I have nothing to hide, I can reveal everything! None of us – none of us!; for that I put my hand in the fire – has ever received only a cent from Mr Stronach. Not a cent! And if you can't distinguish between you personally and your party, then this is Your problem, then you need to discuss this with your people! But one thing is quite certain: Mr Stronach has never offered you anything personally – and none of us! Take That You know now – or we go to court, and you can then present your evidence to the judge. And then we'll see how far you get! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6449	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6471	Mr President. Mr President, I am not sure if this is possible, but if it were to happen, I would offer my speaking time to Mr Klubobmann Lugar. Then: If you talk for another ten minutes, I can't do that! [[Cheerfulness in the case of Greens and BZÖ as well as in the members of the FPÖ.]] Maybe that would be possible. I'm trying to sum this up in two or three sets. So: The Stronach did not want to buy the booker, but the BZÖ?- Oh, my God! [[Cheerfulness with Greens and BZÖ.]] Can this be summarized? – If the values that Mr Stronach sets out had been represented, then the money would have flown. Apparently, he is now buying parts of the BZÖ, because it has not succeeded – as long as he may have five Members. So it would definitely be interesting. But with you, I'm pretty sure you're hardly available, because what you said was priceless. That's not to beat. [[Cheerfulness and general applause.]] Good. This would have deserved a debate of its own, but unfortunately we must come back on the subject of the Committee of Inquiry. Today, we have also talked about respect for the question of ‘acting with the investigative committee’. Mrs Steßl-Mühlbacher accused us that the ads are disrespectful. [[The speaker holds up an advertisement entitled “One Voice for Coverage”.]] I would like to reflect a little on what has happened in the Committee of Inquiry in recent weeks, and I would like to ask you seriously if you think that this has happened with respect. So: The SPÖ has decided not to send Mr Faymann to the committee of inquiry. This is a policy-strategic measure that can be considered. That she had to go wrong, I think, is on her hand. We don't need to talk about it any longer. But if you speak of respect, I ask you, Mr Pendl: Was it respectful to say the strategy not to send Faymann to the investigative committee to link with it: We will only continue if the Gabi Moser withdraws!? – That was respect given by the SPÖ! [[Abg. May. Lap: That's not true!]] No one of the Members seriously believes, Mrs Lapp, that this was the reason why we could not go further. You don't mean that seriously, do you? They have used this as a pretext for turning the investigation committee off. Gabi Moser has come before you, has not made you this favor, and it has therefore been possible to further clarify essential things. Mr. Cap is just getting up, going down. [[Abg. Dr. Cap gets up and goes towards the Bureau.]] By the way, it was not just Mr Otto Pendl; Mr Cap formulated it in the same way in the presidency: A resignation of Gabi Moser is the prerequisite for continuing to work! – An obvious game the SPÖ has played to protect Mr Faymann! This has absolutely nothing to do with political respect for politically very renowned discoverers – and that is probably Gabi Moser undisputed –! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we are talking about respect for the Committee of Inquiry and parliamentary control rights, I really ask you, Mr Pendl: Is it respectful to the National Council to load a single person on Telekom East Business? That is, someone who has already known before that he is going to turn out to a high degree of the statement – whatever happened. Is it respect for the House not to load witnesses who could have carried on the investigation by means of evidence? And is it respectful to load exclusively section heads on the issue of citizenship, who could only contribute little to the investigation and not load all the actors involved? – You have prevented that too! And is it respectful to write on this five-party request, to which you always refer, three additional days of negotiation, of which two could not take place, because you refused to invite SPÖ and ÖVP even one person to allow this investigation committee to actually take place? – And then come here and talk of respect in politics! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] I can tell you one thing: If you do this, you do not need to be surprised that the discussion is getting tougher and that you take seriously what is political responsibility of the mandates. The Pilz colleague has already announced this in the debate. We said: If you turn this investigation committee off – whatever you did – then we will make the vote public. And we did it too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Yes, that's the next point, and that's to my colleague's head, to bring it back. [[The speaker holds the listing “One Voice for Coverage” up again.]] [[Call to the ÖVP:But there is nothing to say!]] There is nothing to be said about it. – Yes, what is something to say? – For the rounding of the Committee of Inquiry as at 16. It was voted on October. [[Abg. Wöginger: No, no – that’s up!]] You can't say anything about it either. So now you can obviously say something against a single point, namely: "A voice for cover-up". – That’s the point it’s about! [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] And now I am asking you how the whole of the Austrian Republic, as the public has referred to the way in which the two government parties have acted, how I have outlined it before, to take the essential points, without any clarification. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] – This has been a form that has all been described as a cover-up in this country. And now I'm asking you: Why can't you advertise that? This is still not conclusive for me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, Mr Pendl, if you are talking about respect: I was in the Committee of Inquiry and listened to how the Secretary of State Ostermayer appeared there. There were apparently great fears about that. I do not know if more has happened than has been thought, because he has repeated what he has said before the authorities. Whether something comes out is another topic. It was, I believe, a form of respectful debate for all who were there. At least no one else debated it there. But you can already consider whether everything is going to be so great if the SPÖ Group does not take a position once and ask no questions there, and every half an hour – that was absurd – Mr Pendl makes an OTS, where he explains that all accusations would have resolved in the air. And then comes the next OTS, which Mr Jarolim writes: All accusations dissolved in air! Mr Jarolim, however, was not present at the hearing of Mr Ostermayer. – By the way, seriously: Respect for what you did, Mr Jarolim, when they were political leaders. So if you're sitting in there, you're wondering what's going on and who's really the voice of the SPÖ delegates, the socialist group correspondence or the Members themselves? – So I mean seriously: If you are talking about control rights here and the question of respect in the House, then you might want to come at your own door on this occasion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] In conclusion: To decide on the Committee of Inquiry as a minority right, that has been promised by you before 2006. In the first period of government under Mr Gusenbauer, the colleague Herbs has come as one of the main representatives with this demand and has negotiated it – seriously! Those who were there know this – among other things, Mr Scheibner was involved – at the time, this failed because the current Minister of Justice Karl made a clear statement on the question of Mr Scheibner and myself, saying that she had no pouvoir to negotiate a committee of inquiry as a minority right for the ÖVP. So the negotiations in 2007, if I remember correctly, were terminated. Then the Ominous Agreement came in 2009, and a new negotiating team was set up. But there was not a colleague of herbs and continued to negotiate for the SPÖ, but it came Otto Pendl, and he then negotiated for the SPÖ. And here we were relatively clear from the beginning where this will lead, that the pouvoir for the SPÖ was no longer given either. And then there were long games on the question: Where is an arbitration court established? – Maybe you will discuss this once in your group! Now we have come back to this state of affairs. Is it serious that the point that crucial legal issues are resolved before a court is for you a no-go for an investigation committee? It is you who are talking about the rule of law, who are constantly saying that there are unfair things happening, you need a better procedural order. But should this not be a court, but the majority in this house, or an arbitration court, which determines the majority in this house?- Oh, my God! That's your condition for the investigation committee to come as minority law? [[Abg. May. Kogler: In Germany it is the same! That's the model, the model!]] I really cannot take this form of excitement seriously in view of the way you have acted. I am very excited how the next talks will take place. Put on the table what you're imagining! I would like to know: What is the SPÖ model, how does it look? Can the Pilz colleague no longer go to a U committee? Is that what's inside? What is included in respectable handling? So if we guarantee that Pilz will not go to any more investigation committee, then there is an investigation committee as a minority law? Is that really your idea? [[Abg. Heinzl: Mein! Mine!]] Is that the fear of my colleague Pilz? By the way, procedural attorney Dr. Hofmann gave quite critical opinions. He said, I think, both to Pilz and to Petzner: Essentially, what happened was okay. – There were different things you can talk about, but what you do is not all right. I think it's going on that way again. At the party day, you decided: at the latest in the next period. – Why is that not possible now? Now, in this period, we are negotiating minority law, are we going to close it – or are we moving it to the next period, where then completely new actors will appear again? So, please, think respectfully about how to shape the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6721	Mr Lugar has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Neugebauer: Once per debate!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall give you the floor to a second speech. You still have half a minute of remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6753	Because of the reaction I have experienced here, I have to say one thing: I am quite surprised that it seems to be quite unusual for a politician to get out of here and tell the truth – whether it is useful or harmful to him. That's just the truth, and I just had to tell her here. Whether that likes me or not, I don't know, I don't know, but it's the truth, and I have to say it because I believe – and there we are again at the Investigation Committee – you have to be able to tell the truth. And I don't care if it's useful to me or not. That's why I told the truth. That's the point. And if you find that awful and think it tactically unwise or whatever, I'm sorry, but I told the truth, and she has to be said.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6789	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall vote on the request submitted by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues in accordance with Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure, to the Committee of Inquiry on the clarification of allegations of corruption for the submission of a written report for a further period of time until the 5th. ==References== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request their consent to a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall also vote on the request submitted by Dr Pilz, colleagues in accordance with Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure, to the Committee of Inquiry on the clarification of allegations of corruption for the submission of a written report for a further period of time until the 5th. ==References== I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who give this request their consent to a sign. – That too is the minority. This request is rejected. [[14:03:56]] 2. Point First reading: Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2013 (Federal Finance Act 2013 – BFG 2013) together with investments (1910 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6852	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Krainer spoke. If desired, 6 minutes of speaking time will be set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6880	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The 2013 budget, as it was sent to the House yesterday, is still marked by the signs of the crisis. The impact of the financial and subsequent economic crisis on the budget in Austria is still very clear. We must remember that from the mid-1990s until the outbreak of the crisis, the debt of the Republic of Austria has fallen from year to year, from almost 70 percent to less than 60 percent to the outbreak of the crisis, and that through this financial crisis and through this economic crisis, the deficits and indebtedness in Austria have exploded. When we look at how Austria dealt with this crisis, however, it also shows how excellent and good Austrian politics was. If you compare these with those in any other state in Europe, you can see that Austria has come through this crisis very well. This is due to many factors, but also to the fact that the policy that happened in Austria must have been a good one. And that's all right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jury: This is not a fairy tale hour! Unheard of!]] At the height of the crisis, we have spent a lot of money to finance short-time work to finance economic packages to combat unemployment ; we have spent a lot of money to stabilise the financial market in order to save banks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Most for the banks!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: 6 billion for bank rescue!]] . I know that was a unanimous decision here in the house, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No! That's wrong!]] We spent a lot of money. It was clear that at the beginning we will spend a lot of money, but we also have to save money again, we have to fix the budget again. We have also done this in a very good way, because we have been careful not to stifle growth, but to create a framework for growth, because only by growth will we have a chance to get out of debt. The second thing we have done is to save, not to be one-sided and blind, as unfortunately many states in Europe do, by reducing only on the expenditure side social benefits and the like – pensions are reduced, salaries are reduced by public servants – no, we have found a balanced mix of revenue-side and expenditure-side measures. The cuts in expenditure have certainly hurt the individuals in whom cuts have been made, but we have seen that we make this as acceptable as possible, as far as possible, and that at the same time we also have to ensure greater justice by means of our revenue-based measures, for example, by contributing to banks. Mr Kogler has rightly said that the rescue of the banks has cost a lot of money, and it still costs a lot of money. That is why we have also introduced a bank levy so that there is also a financial contribution from banks to finance these costs, and that is good and right. We have also seen that those who have made too small a contribution in the past are now making a greater contribution. At the same time, we have relieved those who work for their income through the tax reform. At the same time, we have reduced taxes in the field of earnings, labour income by €3 billion, while at the same time increasing taxes and taxes on capital and property income, which have so far certainly made too little contribution – and, if you are honest, still make a too small contribution today. That is why many proposals are also on the table as to how to provide even more justice here. But that was the right thing to do. Third, in addition to promoting growth and saving, we have focused on future investment. To remove just a few areas: For example, in the whole field of education, whether that is the kindergarten, whether it is the schools, the New Middle School, all day school forms or the universities, we have deliberately said: That's where it's got to be. Give more money, because the major investment in the future is one of the key issues of this government and is also one of the key tasks when it comes to setting the right course for the future. However, we have also put important emphasis on the environment, economics, such as the thermal renovation for which we have provided €100 million and now take over €100 million. This will promote investment and job creation. This will have a positive effect on the environment, and heating costs will decrease. This too is a project that is now being continued. There are also a few things you can see critically. One is the proposed reduction in development cooperation. It has succeeded in not continuing the cuts this year. I think that is good and right, and I think we should at least get back to the level that we had before the crisis, not just by reducing expenditure on development cooperation in the following years, but by increasing expenditure on development cooperation. I think that could be discussed here in the House of Consensus. The second point to be considered is the development of unemployment and the labour market. Yeah, it's true, we're European champions. We have more jobs in Austria than before the crisis. We have the lowest level of unemployment, but it is, quite honestly, too high for me, and we have to think whether there is still a need for additional measures to improve employment. The third thing – you have to say that honestly – is: The banks and the costs of the banks are hopefully a thorn in our eyes. Not only do we need to think about how we can keep costs as low as possible, but we also need to look at the fact that in the future we will have a functioning bank insolvency right, that the taxes that the taxpayer now has will no longer be able to take place in the future even in the case of banks. These are also critical things you need to see and where work is still ahead of us. Otherwise, I am already looking forward to the deliberations, including in the Committee on Budgets. We have a new budgetary law with an impact orientation. However, budgetary law must also be lived, and this is where Parliament has an important task that we need to fulfil together across the political borders. This can be seen, for example, as with gender justice, as with gender budgeting, as it is ordered with effect orientation. I am looking forward to a good cooperation with all the colleagues in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6964	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e6985	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing this budget today at a first reading of the 2013 budget, we must of course note that this budget is taking place under political and financial conditions in Europe, which are incredibly challenging. Since the global financial crisis in 2008, there has been a series of crises, partly overlapping, partly overlapping: Financial crisis, economic crisis, sovereign debt crisis, banking crisis, confidence crisis, political crisis. So this environment is huge and really a challenge, and of course Austria has not been spared. But – and this has rightly been said by my previous speaker, Mr Krainer – Austria has come out better from the crisis than many other countries. We have not had a dramatic labour market breakdown, yes, we have the best labour market situation in all 27 EU countries. We do not have youth unemployment, where every second youth is unemployed, but we keep the record in Europe, in the European Union, as far as the labour market is concerned. This is undoubtedly primarily – I say quite openly, even as a politician – the Earnings of people in our country who are incredibly powerful, are diligent, motivated, committed. As an example, I say: Two weeks ago, when we took first place in the European Championship of vocational training in Spain in Belgium, we became European champions with 14 gold medals, 16 silver medals, 2 bronze medals, this shows where the strength of our country lies, namely in human capital, in people in this country and in corresponding vocational training. These young people are also a certain guarantee of the future for us. I think they really deserve our applause, these young people, but also the businesses they train, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But, of course, politics also has a share in this success story, ladies and gentlemen, because politics sets the conditions. And what has happened here in recent years – and there is a consistent continuation of the 2013 budget. This approach is ultimately a kind of strategic triangle, namely first budget consolidation, second structural reforms and third impetus for growth and employment. And that is exactly what is included in this 2013 budget. When you take the chapter Budget consolidation: Fiscal Pact, debt brake, budgetary discipline – all of this is also due to this federal budget draft 2013. Thank God we have at European level a Fiscal Pact. At this point, I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for Finance, who worked at the Brussels European Council and also at the European level to achieve such a fiscal pact. We have a different quality today, thank God, in the crisis management of the European Union. With ESM, with the new ECB purchasing policy, with Sixpack, with Fiscal Pact, with the Bank Union and Financial Transaction Tax Plans, we have a different quality of crisis management in the European Union. But, of course, in Austria, as in all other countries, we are called upon to take on our share of this strategy, i.e. to pursue these three objectives of fiscal consolidation, structural reforms and incentives for growth and employment and to take appropriate measures. And what we decided in this House this spring, ladies and gentlemen, these stability laws 1 and 2 with a consolidation sum of about €27 billion – three quarters of expenditure on the part of the House, one quarter on the revenue side; some say: two thirds on the expenditure side, one third on the revenue side – that is already something. At that time I was asked on TV: Is that enough? And I said: Reforms in politics must be a majority. That one can say that I would have wished for more, that the result might have been better, that is quite legitimate, but reforms must be majority. And what we did here in the spring, that's not something. 27 billion savings potential do not come from alone. This has really been a huge achievement of this federal government and also of the majority of parliament. You have to acknowledge that. As far as the third point is concerned, growth and employment, Mr Krainer, I fully agree with you. We have always said that saving alone cannot be, we need a strategy for growth and employment. We have launched 6.5 billion of this package for offensive measures in the field of research, development, education and thermal insulation. This is a strategy, as it is exemplary for Europe, namely to save on the one hand, but at the same time to provide impetus for growth and employment. That means that we are on a good path, ladies and gentlemen, and I am looking forward to the debate in the Committee on Budgets as well as my previous speaker. We, the government parties and the finance minister, have presented a draft here to ensure that we can continue this successful path of our country in the next few years. In that sense, everything is good! Thank you very much, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Finanzminister!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7053	The next speaker was Mr Grastaur. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7074	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, My two previous speakers just forgot to say: We currently have the highest debt of all time: € 290 billion. Secondly, the euro and everything that is related to it pose enormous problems for us. It was also noted, Dr. Stummvoll and Mr. “Professor” Krainer, that you were never in the private sector, never, otherwise you wouldn’t get over these serious points so far. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I have been in the private sector as Managing Director and now as Supervisory Board, and I tell you if a company had such problems as the State of Austria, then all the strength would be taken together to bring this company back to its feet. [[Call the ÖVP: Being!]] Then a consistent reorganisation step would be taken to re-establish everything in the financial sphere. If you don't do that, you'll be ashamed of the insolvency. And if you don't do that, you make yourself punishable. You're tossing the insolvency. Our Austria is in debt by 90 percent. [[Abg. Only 90 percent of GDP!]] We heard yesterday the budget speech of our Federal Minister. If you read the newspapers today, you will notice that the newspapers say: But that wasn't a big throw. There were no highlights, with the exception of the climax where you have adapted the coalition partner in the federal army. It was also not a fairy tale hour from my point of view, ladies and gentlemen, because fairy tales are captivating, exciting and fascinating. It was rather a mourning game that was offered here. - Just like in the year before. It was similar with the 2012 budget. If you compare the two speeches, you can see that the almost word for word was written off. Finally, this budget will result in further debt policy. We have revenues of €67 billion – and this is up against €74 billion; the deficit is again €6.7 billion. I can remind you: 2009 to 2013 the Austrians pay €13 billion more in taxes, and yet we make these huge deficits and losses. The total debt – I have already said it – is currently € 290 billion, including Asfinag and ÖBB. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The interest rate service we have to provide for this is €6.5 billion, and I have to say honestly that it is a pity for this money, because these interest payments go to 80 percent abroad, mainly to foreign banks. There is no mention of big, genuine reforms. Read the editorial in today’s “Press. ” I just want to quote one sentence of it. That's what it says: ‘People can also rely on the fact that ‘reforms’ are at best discussed. It is implemented by all things as good as nothing.” – Quote. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, you are confusing terms, because the load packages you have launched, namely the loading package Loipersdorf and the so-called savings package 2012, are not reforms, but that is pure withdrawal. The people will be burdened by the economy of Austria with €50 billion by the year 2016. And because you're so proud of the quickly made savings package, we remember: This was just because the EU bought it. That's why this savings package has come about, otherwise it wouldn't have been. But maybe it would be better anyway. For decades: Debt, debt, debt! You can read in this report in the “Presse” that there were only once surpluses in Austria in the state, namely under Kamitz in 1954. And once we were on zero, that was under grass. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] All the other years were negative. [[Abg. Strache: Grasser was the best finance minister ever!]] I claim, ladies and gentlemen, that politicians in this government take on responsibility for Austria, because this government, which we now have, does not assume any responsibility towards the Austrians, otherwise these developments would not occur. Lamenting, Mrs Federal Minister, that is certainly too little, but making it is recommended. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7173	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Kogler. Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7195	Mrs Finanzminister! Federal Chancellor! I would just like to establish a basic link between the issues of the day, namely the fight against corruption and budgetary policy. You have missed something in the early days, and I am only saying it at this point once again, so that it is stunned and clear in the record, after it did not seem to be absolutely guaranteed in the heat of the fight. Look, the clubmen's heads and caps have accused the Green Group that advertisements in which we in all the public in the constituencies point out how the voting behaviour of the mandates here in the committee was bound by human hatred. Let me tell you once again and in all terms: It's exactly the other way round. Apart from the fact that we have already had a prelude to your democratic and transparent deficits, we have always pointed out before that we will make your voting behaviour public. And that's just right and fair. Why? – Now comes the central connection. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The division of power between government, justice and, above all, parliamentary control can only work if voters know in the constituency how the elected and sent by them voted. We can also summarize it easily and in German: A people's representation only works as such if the people know who represented it as and when. That is exactly what we have made public, because you have not done it – which was to be expected – and I offer you a compensation proposal: Why don't you turn an advertisement on the voting behaviour of the Green Members? That would be a nice opportunity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will then continue to give a public opinion accordingly, and the debate will take place. But it also has something very, very serious, when we know what corruption does for a national economic damage, in billions. The University of Linz, colleague Gaßner, regularly calculates this. A total economic damage of up to €30 billion occurs only in Austria. There is also corruption among private individuals, which will make the market inefficient, but for the budget and for the taxpayers you can invest at least one third of it in economic terms, which is still up to €10 billion. That's not what I'm talking about. As President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I am committed to knowing what I am talking about when I think about the practices in public procurement there, there and there. It is therefore so important to use this historical situation to do everything, to fight corruption and to promote awareness of it. And that's why you've done such a bad job on the budget side and the savings side of your business here. The government has nothing to do with this, but it is essential that we continue to pursue it. And to save: We have said that the motto of the green financial policy on this budget and also in the next four-year framework negotiations is indeed the careful handling of taxpayers' money. But that means that we still have to look at some things more closely. What does the turning off of investigation committees have to do with the waste of tax money? – First of all, the prophylaxis for the future must be made. Just as the BUWOG sale was approached, this was the organized plundering of public property. This may have something to do with the waste of taxpayers' money and the budgetary situation. It must be said once again that we were already very close to the Hypo Alpe-Adria at the time when the Banking Investigation Committee turned out to be a crucial point, among other things because Raiffeisen did not fit. Then the files have become increasingly blacker, and at the end it has become black at all because, again by SPÖ and ÖVP, the investigation committee was turned off in spring/summer 2007. We would have saved ourselves a lot of money in the following years, if it hadn't happened. I'm convinced. And today – rightly – the BZÖ submits a request for the setting up of an investigation committee on the processes surrounding the Hypo Alpe-Adria and, subsequently, also municipal credit and Volksbanken AG. All of this has to do with careful handling of taxpayers' money. And there we are already with the banks, Mrs. Federal Minister. That's what you made yesterday. It's elegant. I'm telling you, this could have been done differently. The evidence of this is becoming increasingly pressing, not least by the Court of Auditors' reports, but we will then be dealing separately. To date, 6 billion net loss – I also tell you, the money is perdu, and it will not stay there – are dimensions that can only be more difficult anyway, but especially measured by where else you need to fine-tune in the budget. You know it very well. That is why it is an hour's commandment, and it must also be the result of this budget debate, that the resolution of the National Council to this Federal Government is taken seriously as soon as possible, first of all – you know the agreement – to present the key points of the right of bank insolvency and then to place it in a law as quickly as possible – probably knowing that this is not easy. But we can't let four years of crisis pass by and always wait for anyone else until we finally deal with it. There is an obligation on the Federal Government to present this, and we will try to ensure that it really does. These are really the big pieces and contributions to the careful handling of tax money and saving. The fact that there is still a lot of other reforms that have now been removed, contrary to hopeful beginnings in this legislative period – school administration reform, health reform, promotion – that all this is not going on because essentially renitent national leaders of different couleurs refuse all reforms, that is the Krux. Not even so much yours here, but what can be blamed on you, Mrs Finanzminister, and also your predecessor Josef Pröll, is that you have not sufficiently enforced yourself in your own party against this exuberant federalism madness that prevails in this country. That's about billions – and you're agreeing every million extra. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not expressly agree with this effort, but let us look at the big chunks: careful handling and saving. Of course, the whole thing would have the advantage of investing. And these investments are necessary. We need to organize the entire education line – kindergarten, kindergarten, school. We may not need so much money for this, but we certainly need it. These are the universities and the research. That's quite clear. And with this kind of rework, it would be very well organized, and that must be our focus. And one last thing: In addition to efficient saving and sustainable investment, an area that may have a net effect is all the more correct and important for the economic location: a fair and performance-friendly tax system. This needs to be done, and that is why it is not to be seen that we are paying for labour income, self-employed or self-employed, very, very much taxes and taxes, but that is why we are not able to pay in this country, even if they go in millions and billions, with the millions of heirs and with the billions of foundations. And you must finally stop pretending to be caught on the one hand – see campaign of the ÖVP – by the small house builder. The opposite is right! All evidence proves that. Failed to submit a concept instead of de-avowing it all the time. That would be the necessary thing. We'll do that, and then we can get into discussion. That our tax system is anti-performance – but for reasons other than you claim – and not ecologically, that is obvious, these are the next big chunks to be organized, and that will be the subject of green financial policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7310	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7331	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Finanzminister! I have already criticized yesterday in the first part of the “budget debate” – under quotation marks – that a budget speech is becoming more and more a political marketing article, in which some stylographs are packed in and, in fact, past the essentials. If we recall the last year's budget, you have made the statement as a central sentence, it is high time to relieve the middle class. The middle class is naturally in the heart of all. 1.9 million Austrians are the middle class, the so-called system holders, which ensure that this state can still be financed in large parts. What did you do, Mrs. Finanzminister? – You have taxed and dropped the middle class precisely by increasing the social security contributions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You understand this as a discharge, Mrs. Finanzminister? In the middle class a new poverty has now broken out. We couldn't even think that was possible, and that's something that's completely new. The middle class is really the milk cow of the nation today. This is a term I do not like to use very much, but the medium-sized person, Mrs Finanzminister, has to be your concern, because these are the providers of the Republic who are willing to do more than others, those are those who carry out highly qualified activities and also pay the highest taxes. And just this target group, you're under fire now. It is now intended to pay for the whole disaster at European level, at the level of banks. No one in the middle class understands that. No one understands that for services that are provided – for example, for overtime, which is not required to be provided, but which are gladly done – you are still being punished, Mrs Finanzminister. This cannot be understood by anyone who feels part of the middle class. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The cold progression is – everyone who knows how to deal with tax policy in some way – a duck. She hears removed, she's unjust. We have already presented our tax model to you a long time ago. It is a mature tax model, developed together with the Association of Business Trustees, a fair tax model. I say this because you keep asking: Where are the concepts and proposals of the opposition? We from the BZÖ are the only political force in Austria, who knows which tax system in our country is forward-looking for the economic location of Austria, is right and also takes into account the performance-oriented middle class, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There's no concept of anyone else. They always promise it in your speeches and point out that a tax reform commission will eventually come together and meet. We just don't know who that is and when it's tagging. You have remained guilty of all the answers so far. And on the other hand, I defend myself, Mrs. Finanzminister. You can blame me for everything, but I stick to the facts, and I am very opposed to the fact that we fall into this political jargon and completely forget that there are also facts on which these political statements should be based. The opposition can be looked at in some way, I would say, but from the government constantly fall into this beautiful political speech and always only to convey floskels without based on the facts, which I think is extremely problematic. You said, Mrs Finanzminister, yesterday: My path is stable finances. – The only thing that is stable in your finances is debt making. It's stable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Just, that's not the stability that the budget needs. We understand something completely different from stability. Balanced finances, which is stable, but what you have presented with your budget is unstable. You are – you have to be blamed – the debt minister number one in that country. You have managed with your financial policy to lead Austria into a record debt. You can't deny that, because with a rate of 75.4 percent debt ratio, we're as high as ever in the history of our country. There's never been so many debts! And there you can't go and say, My path is stable finances. Mrs Bundesminister, I am not saying this now, but: This is unsanitary – especially in view of the background that you simply don't say many things, don't say. For example, they do not say how high the debt ratio actually is. These are just your numbers that you present so beautifully, but the extra-budget debt is nowhere made known by you, in no budget. It is true that there would have to be a side letter to the budget in which you mention what extra-budget debt we still have, about which one is constantly mokinating: ÖBB, ASFINAG, federal real estate companies, countries, municipalities. There's a lot coming together, Mrs. Federal Minister. - That's the second point. The third point: the liability. They are not listed anywhere. Why Shame You're trying to tell us how high the federal liabilities really are? We put this together and came to € 122 billion in federal liability. Is that such a ridiculous amount for you that you don't find it worth 122 billion € that can be beaten to the budget? That's just the federal arrests. Then there are the countries that have also taken over €50 billion in liabilities. I miss this, Mrs Federal Minister, in your presentation, and it would be most appropriate and also much more serious to disclose the cards. Who still has confidence or confidence in the quality of the problem at European level, if we do not even put the figures and facts on the table in Austria, which was justifiably said yesterday? Not even we in Austria are so honest to ourselves that we discuss the right numbers. We naturally expect this from Greece. They accuse the Greeks of presenting beautiful figures, and basically do nothing else by not telling us the whole and full truth here, Mrs. Finanzminister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It must be discussed at some point that we do not allow this to continue, even in the case of unemployment statistics. Yes, we are great there, European champion, excellent, juchhe! But 300 000 Austrians find this less amusing, I would have said. Tell me how many are in training, so to speak, waiting for a job. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: They're already in there!]] That's nothing to laugh about, these are fates! As the great achievement of this government policy, I would not have seen that in all cases. The inflation rate also: You know, this inflation rate that we are discussing here is ridiculous. In reality, they feel a lot, much stronger in the wallets, especially the small and smallest incomes that you say from the SPÖ that they are so much at your heart. What do these guys tell you? – They say that they are no longer dealing with the money they have to finance their lives. Take this seriously at last! Inflation is a hidden tax! This is what I am saying about the characterisation of inflation: a hidden tax that no one comes out about which one cannot wander around. There is no way to apply for a balance of inflation – there is no such thing! – as is possible in the event of a tax compensation. No, the inflation is there: The high prices of fuel, of food, of things that are vital for people. There's nothing going on. No, quite the opposite: The Federal Government is putting another point on it with its cost-effective care, which it throws down over the population. This, ladies and gentlemen, is your responsibility! If you go here, Mrs. Finanzminister – this is an outrage at all – and say here from the government bank – several times yesterday – they are the lawyer of taxpayers: Mrs Finanzminister, you are the nightmare of taxpayers. The nightmare of taxpayers, but not the lawyer! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] If you want to be a lawyer – yes, you are: You're the banker's attorney, the banks! There you are the best lawyer there is. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You have to look for it! Throughout Europe, you won't find a better lawyer for the bankers than you represent them. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a budget that is forward-looking. This is rather a kangaroo budget: big, wide sayings and jumps with an empty bag!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7422	Mr Faymann spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7454	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! If in the euro zone there is a forecast for this year that economic performance is falling by 0.4 percent, and if at the same time the IMF is forecasting an increase in unemployment in this year to 11.2 percent, this means: This concerns 1.8 million more people who will be unemployed in Europe at the end of this year! Well, Austria cannot completely decouple itself from all developments internationally and at first quite not from all developments in Europe. To all those who recommend that, if we were not in the currency zone, then something like decoupling bad conditions or negative influences would be possible: We know that there is no one who is serious about our economic performance, who does not know that there is a framework in Europe. The storms of the crisis, which have also caused enormous damage in neighbouring countries, in many countries of Europe since the financial crisis, some of which have not even finished themselves, but have needed this additional shield and the help of others, point to a development in Europe where the question arises: How can you hold back as efficiently as possible? I am convinced that this budget, like the previous one, on the one hand, in fiscal consolidation does what Austrians are currently providing us with the lowest interest rate on government bonds – now together with Germany and some other countries in Europe – to be a stable country that can be trusted! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Otherwise, we would not have interest rates below 2% for long-term bonds. The Minister for Finance made this clear yesterday: Many countries are struggling with the situation that they cannot impose long-term bonds at some manageable interest from investor confidence at all. It shows the factors, including our general government deficit, that we are among the best five countries in the euro area, compared with most euro area countries. I am not talking now about the standard of living in the new member countries, which, with a different history and later, have a huge need for recovery and have also been thrown back by the financial market crisis, but I mean only the countries of the euro zone which have been for some time The European Union must be united in a common monetary union. If you make the comparison here, you must admit, even if you are politically listening to another direction, that Austria is in a particularly good position due to the diligent workers and the good businesses of our country! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is not a coincidence that in Europe, too, political discussions in areas such as employment, low youth unemployment, low unemployment – with the figures of those who are in training already included in our unemployment statistics – this model role of Austria is so clearly highlighted! This includes a number of measures which can also be found in this budget. This includes, of course, our good training for skilled workers. This includes the training guarantee, which many say: Well, let's do it all over Europe! – knowing that most of the countries do not even have the form of dual training, as we have, and therefore also in the case of a training guarantee – which is a complement to dual training – they cannot decide so easily at all, but they need years to build up this training guarantee for young people at all, but which is not anything but a proof that young people who need training and have not found business training will get a chance from us with over-company teaching workshops to claim on the labour market as well. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not the case in the case of those who have the lower deficit in Europe, who have lower unemployment and higher employment, who are in the case of those where, of course, savings are always seen as critical by one or other or by different interest groups, but our savings programmes have not led to any debate in other countries, but have led to a discussion where perhaps some of them would have put different or stronger emphasis on one or the other. We have shown courage, for example, with the increased bank levy: € 628 million, with the real estate value added tax: € 350 million, the solidarity contribution for top earners: € 110 million, the reform of group taxation: 50 million €, the tax agreement with Switzerland as well as with the financial transaction tax rightly planned from 2014. We have thus shown that we are very well opposed to the fact that not rich and poor are getting poorer because the poor are important to us because every person is important to us and because we also need the middle class. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] And you can only hold it together if you actively counter it. So, of course, every chapter can be dealt with in the area I would like to address, such as education. The drive of the New Middle School, the drive of the whole day school, the whole day school, may not go fast enough. I also wish that we still lay down in the coming months and only quite years, because it turns out that the best-trained in Europe – even here you can learn from others – have a much higher level of all day schooling than our country. In addition, these offers exist in our country very different regionally. So to push forward the education reform – with the financial resources we have planned but also beyond – is something that gives our country the armor for the next generation and which is certainly one of the key points of further political development. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this way, each area can be analysed as: You are right in the political debate, as is the case in the Committee on Budgets and with all other possibilities here in the House, and we also have to speak and answer members of the government for every single point. But one thing should unite us, and we have every reason to say: We want this common Europe to develop in such a way that the real economy is strengthened, and that what has caused so much damage to speculation is pushed back, whether this is done through better banking supervision, as will be the case in the European Council on the agenda – Thursday/Friday, or then with the finance ministers – or whether this may also have to be on the agenda internationally at the G 20 as well, how to deal better with completely useless speculation, which brings only a few things but costs many in the world. So we want us to formulate a common Austrian position here! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We must carry out our tasks within the country. We must prove, where we are responsible, that we are better and stronger, also in comparison. But we also have the task of playing an active role in the European Community, an international active role with a view to ensuring that workers also have an opportunity and not increasing unemployment, which is already immeasurably high. Provision should be made for this in all areas of society. These include research, development and good conditions. Because I know that this will be re-inforced in this budget, that this focus will be increased and that investments will not be simply reduced and deleted – because this is the fastest way to save something, that is to say, not to spend anything at all – but also to make investments a fixed part of this budget, I also ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7578	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7599	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! It is already remarkable that in conversations one is constantly confronted with the following opinion: The fact that Austria has been relatively well hit by the crisis in recent years is because we would have been less affected. At this point – you have made this very clear on a number of points – it must be stressed that this is not because we are an island of the Blessed, but that it is precisely because in Austria we have had a different approach to the crisis and its consequences that offensive action has been taken to ensure that investment has been made that an offensive labour market policy has been pursued. All of this is again reflected in the budget now available. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have now also stressed the importance of furthering education reforms from our point of view. As an educational politician, I am of course particularly concerned that, even in the coming years, there will be budgetary opportunities to take further steps to make our education system more likely, starting from early childhood funding, through the expansion of childcare facilities by providing € 15 million more to the communities in order to support this development, that the reforms will continue in the school. that afternoon care is expanded, both expanded and improved, with the aim of changing all primary schools to this more valuable educational concept in a few years, in the foreseeable future. While I would like to say that our goal as social democrats remains, of course, that we want to reach the common school all day long; and these are important steps in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to further improve the universities. The universities will have more budgets available in the coming years of the service agreement. We are working on a concept of study place financing. We will soon decide on a pilot project how we will improve the study conditions in some mass subjects, without reducing the number of students, but with a study place funding as an instrument for more fair funding, but not for reducing the number of students! We want to connect this with an expansion path, and there are to be a hundred additional professors in order to be able to provide better care for the students: continue in their desired studies, perhaps not at the desired university of the first election. The technical universities – very important! - to be further expanded. We want to create 500 additional places. So: Continue on the path of education reform, and create more opportunities for our youth!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7648	Next speaker: Mr Auer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7669	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs Federal Minister for Finance! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Yesterday, Mrs Finanzminister's budget speech, today the first reading of the budget with a clear opinion from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and we will be on 24 March. On October 1st, with the budget hearing, the individual chapters begin to be intensively advised – I invite you to see the joint in a critical but constructive discussion. If you look at international examples, then you can say quite self-confidently – not overly, but self-confidently: Austria is better there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is quite a confirmation of the Austrian policy measures that have been taken in good time by this Federal Government. For if you always charge the negatives of a federal government, as the opposition does, then you should also give the positive results of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen! Solid state finances are essential foundations for sustainable economic development and hence for social stability. The objective is a balanced government budget by 2016: no new debt, because debt is tomorrow's taxes! Ladies and gentlemen! Since today, as was the case yesterday, it is very often pointed out: You're gonna throw the banks the money! – I have here a completely new diploma thesis of a young diploma student on the topic “The impact of banking aid packages on the real economy”. An interesting work! This young man Man, who has dealt intensively with this subject, writes in his diploma thesis: The results were presented in detail for the countries Austria, Germany, Spain and USA. For the other countries, the results are shown in the Annex. The result of these models in context is covered by the other questions. As a result, banking aid packages have a positive impact on the real economy, as a functioning credit channel is necessary for the economic sectors and their growth. Ladies and gentlemen, that goes on to say: Banking aid packages play an important role in the real economy. A credit terminal is a major problem. Banking aid packages must be chosen in such a way as to obtain the possibility of foreign financing for businesses, even if the financial sector is under pressure. - Quote. A diploma thesis of a young Austrian who has examined precisely these effects! It's not supposed to be a free letter for banks, it's not a question at all. But it is not as simple as some people think by saying, Mrs Finanzminister, that the government is throwing the money into the banks. Then: In order to ensure the stability of the economy, in order to ensure financial security and ultimately also the savings in order to ensure international reputation, it is very often necessary – even if it is painful – to maintain the stability of the Austrian banking sector. Especially those who have caused cause for cause research often shout out loud. I don't want to call banks, I don't want to call them names. But we have enough work here to bring this back into line with stability, which is quite a problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look beyond the edge of Austria's plate to America! Here we see: The US with a debt of more than 100 percent of economic performance is one of the world's most indebted industrialized countries. Debt: more than 16 trillion dollars; a new debt of more than 1 trillion dollars! It is even worse about Japan, where the quota is about 200 percent. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the two largest economies in the world, and we are ultimately also dependent on how the economies of the world are developing. Austria is lucky to be able to export more than 60 percent of the euro area exports due to an excellent economic performance. That is why we are much less dependent on the risk of currency than on other countries in the world, ladies and gentlemen. We also have a special evidence of an economic power in Austria, namely: Wage unit costs are significantly lower in international comparison and therefore competitive. This should be a little proud of the economic performance of the enterprises and the quality of the Austrian workers. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be a little proud! We have proved, especially in the difficult years of 2007 to 2011, that we have come through the crisis well and have put in place appropriate measures here. Federal Chancellor! I would ask you to take into account, especially in the forthcoming negotiations on CAP financing, the importance of the second pillar for rural areas. Thank you for the appointment you gave us to discuss with you. I'm sure we have your support here. From the point of view of agriculture, we also need to know this question solved, because agriculture and forestry are also a rural economy, so it could be described. Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense I invite you to consult the Committee on Budgets on a constructive basis. We have a new budgetary right. Many areas are new to see, to re-understand, to read again, but I am sure that with the experts of the Ministry of Finance, with the experts of the budget service we will be able to solve this task. In this sense, I invite you to consult the Budget Committee constructively.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7763	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7785	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Auer, I believe that we are always making constructive contributions to this task, but of course it is our right to point out and criticise abuses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] While listening to the words of the Federal Chancellor, I have repeatedly felt that the German Chancellor sometimes represents the interests of the EU more than that of the Austrian taxpayers. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] A key part of the budget is to be found in the banking sector or in services to ESM and other European institutions. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: Austrian banks to be precise, Austrian problem banks!]] This euro-saving policy of the Federal Government is robbing us of the savings in the long term. Why? – The ECB’s decision to buy bonds on the secondary market will increase inflation in the medium term. Already, at the current inflation rate of 2.7 percent, we have interest rates of only 1 percent. Then the saver loses money every day, or loses the money he has invested every day. This is nothing but a expropriation of the savers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I remember that the actual rate of inflation, namely that of daily needs, is much higher – some estimate, 4 or 5 percent – then I have to say: In principle, expropriation is much higher. At €143 billion savings, the loss of value is already €5.7 billion in 2012, 2012. One of the suspects could be that even politics wants to maintain a slow expropriation of the savers in order to ultimately influence the public debt away. Even prominent economic managers like Klaus Woltron claim that in ten years, a loss of value of savings will occur from around 40 to 50 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The whole is nothing but a hidden asset tax on money, it is a perfect expropriation of the Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Any discussion on the introduction of capital taxes is not sufficient in view of this sluggish expropriation.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7853	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7875	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! I do not want to say here that the Austrian economy is not bad, that is not a question. But it must also be kept in mind that we have problems and that we must do something in the future if we also want to defend this advantage that we have vis-à-vis other countries. Let us look, for example, at the Austrian labour market! – The Minister of Finance has kept us silent yesterday in her budget speech – and the budget report is clear and clear because it is the economic forecasts of the Economic Research Institute – that the unemployment rate will rise from 4.4 percent to 4.8 percent. In other words, we will have more than 17 000 unemployed next year. This is, of course, a consequence of the savings package and the weaker economic development. We must already see, we are saving Europe, and this, of course, has an impact, not only on the states in Europe, but also on Austrian economic development, and this is now reflected in higher unemployment rates and lower growth. The International Monetary Fund has now made a paradigm change in what is happening in the field of austerity policy. I think that Austria is called upon to think a little about it in the near future when it formulates its policy in terms of the design of budgetary policy. This should be taken into account. A second point: The government not only writes about the objective of budgetary discipline, but also says that it wants to initiate and continue offensive programmes. I'm sorry, but I can't see anything from new initiatives. I recognize Loipersdorf, I recognize what happened in spring, but new programs are absolutely none! But this also means that there is no fresh money in future areas – perhaps with the exception of universities where there are the university billions, but only enough to cover what universities need so that they are not worse off than in this year. That's all. Or let's look at the school area! There's a little more for this one. When we look into the federal financial framework, we see: There's already less money next year. So what is happening here is not an offensive towards future action and education, but rather the management of the lack. Or: Where is the money for the missing 80,000 childcare places – provided we want to reach Scandinavian level –? – It is simple and simply not present! But where we probably have a lot of money, these are the banks. Unfortunately, I can't ignore mentioning this over and over again. So far, some €6 billion has been net in the 2012 and 2013 measures. This is a lot of money, considering that we need about €400 to 500 million a year to finance these 80,000 kindergartens that we lack in our country. Why is there this need? Why do banks have to be so grafted into? – It's clear with the Hypo Alpe Adria. It was the system Carinthia, That we have been able to observe for years, in the face of a poor functioning supervision of the financial market, set up under Karl-Heinz Grasser. At the municipal credit company, it was pure speculation, even in the face of financial market supervision, pure sonic that led us to pay billions and billions into these banks now. This cannot remain the case, because the taxpayers have to pay for it at last! [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Not the owners, not the creditors, but the taxpayers, because in Austria there is still a lack of the framework conditions we would need to take the creditors and the owners into account. The banking lobbyist Othmar Karas is still here and says that the bank levy has to be gone because the financial transaction tax is coming now. – That's probably the bottom of the barrel! The cause of the crisis is now suddenly to be stopped using the bank levy. That can't really be meant seriously by Mr Othmar Karas, no, I can't believe that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are discussing this budget from the point of view of the new budgetary right, effective budgeting. There is a new federal financial law – very thick, in which there are targets of effect. Mrs Finanzminister, let us look at some of these objectives of effect, which concern you. In I, chapter ‘Financial management’, it is called ‘strengthening tax morals’, and in the measures I read: complete fight against fraud through cross-border cooperation. - Quote. Yeah, sure, I'm very much for that. And since you write, in subheading 15, that the Ministry of Finance is also a learning organisation, I assume that you are learning quickly and finally implementing the interest rate directive in Europe so that tax relief can finally be combated across Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point, for which you are also responsible, Mrs Finanzminister, Subdivision 16: That's what it says in the guide: ‘The tax laws () are to be eligible for benefit.’ It is also stated in the guide: ‘Taxation shall be carried out efficiently, fairly and evenly.’ At the moment, the tax system cannot be justified by performance, nor can there be any mention of fairness in taxation. But I do not find any measures, Mrs Finanzminister, which would lead to the implementation of what you are addressing in the guidelines. I am building on the learning organization, Mrs. Finanzminister! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e7988	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8009	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! The media criticism of the 2012 budget – that is, that of this year, which was discussed in the previous year – was devastating. It was said that this budget was inconceivable, not committed, forwardless. All these terms could be used again today, because this budget is really a continuation, it has not changed at all. I even believe, Mrs Minister, that in some passages you have given exactly the same speech and in the budget lines you have made only a few cosmetic changes. But in contrast to the 2012 budget, the following two things are already clear: The first is that you will miss your plan, the budget plan. This means that you may at best reach the zero deficit in 2060, as you explained in your speech, and even then not you, but at least no more 2016. The second is that you will no longer reach the target of reducing public debt to 70 percent by 2016. You missed this plan, it's clear today. And it's also a second clear that's a little more impressive to put the government's misbalancings on the table: It is now fixed with the submission of the 2013 budget that you have not been able to carry out structural reforms in the budget for the last year of your current legislative period – for the first time in a five-year legislative period – even in the field of interpretation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For five years you have failed and failed to do so, because no structural reforms are included in this budget! They have failed a unique constellation that will not exist so quickly in the structure of the Republic as far as elections are concerned: You have had no elections at national and federal level for over two years, where you could also have done serious structural reforms. That's what you missed. What your balance sheet will be in the last budget before the election is finally a new debt record, with over 75 percent and 238.5 billion euros respectively. Thus, every Austrian, per capita, is already in debt with 28 300 €! This is a fresh increase of € 8.3 billion. All of this is so incredible, because you have all praised us in the last budget debate here from the speaker's desk, namely the speakers from SPÖ and ÖVP: Stop the new debts! No new debts! Quit, out, even for God's sake, terrible! What prevented you from doing so? Why do we read again in the new budget: 8.3 billion new debts? Why does per capita debt increase again? You can't really explain that to us, but you say: Wonderfully, the interest service has reduced from €8 billion to just €6.5 billion, so to speak! 6,5 billion € we pay on interest for the debt! And because we can't pay for that because the money is not there, you have to take on new debts for the payment of this interest burden again. This is a carousel of debt, which no longer ceases to turn – and you, Mrs Finanzminister, and this government bears political responsibility for it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No structural reform, no big throw, no tax reform. It is then perfectly clear that as a summary for the citizens remains in the end: The citizen must pay by means of taxes, fees, taxes and reductions in benefits for the financing of Marode Banks and the EU countries that have been called for! That's the end. This is the policy that has been cast into figures, which is here today. Mrs Finanzminister, it's like that. The money's never gone. It's just someone else. In this case, the banks and, in part, the governments of the EU countries that have been called for or are still in favour of the vote. [[Abg. Dolinschek: That's it!]] But to push the deficit to this fact alone, it is not easy to do so, because, of course, there is also a homemade failure of the budget targets, because you, this government, have simply never managed to achieve a budget surplus, apart from the financial burden on banks and the EU. You never did that, not even in the prosperous years, not even in the years of growth! In 2011, for example, it was one such thing. Even there you have not been able to achieve a surplus of budgets, and that is something that is also homemade and where we see a problem. I would also like to address labour market data. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I know it's always great when you can compare yourself internationally, and okay, bought, I confess to you that too: Wonderful! Only: You also have to look into the future, Mr. Federal Chancellor! And it doesn't look very pink: The labour market data alone for the month of September 2012 with a plus of over 5 percent, I read there, that is not intoxicating. Or because you have also addressed the youth: 7 000 young people are currently looking for teaching places. That's not nothing, it's a huge number: 7 000! And when you compare the current data with the data from the previous year, you can see: We had a total of 280 000 people in unemployment and training in September 2011; this is already 294 900 at the same time! When you look at this: During the last year, 384 200 unemployed were already unemployed at the turn of the year December 2011/January 2012, including those in the training courses. If you calculate this with the increase rates this year, Mr Bundeskanzler, then I guarantee you that I will exceed the number of 400 000 unemployed by the year 2012/2013! And then really is fire on the roof, because then it not only becomes budget effective and there are not only huge expenditures, but then we also have an even bigger social problem, which is to be mastered, because every unemployed person is one too much. We know that, and we don't always want to look at that with the schilling in the great way that Austria stands internationally. 400 000 unemployed people are too many; on the other hand, we must take action, Federal Chancellor, that is quite important! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Just a short while on the sentence of the Federal Minister for Finance in her budget speech: “We were able to obtain the purchasing power of the people at the same time.” – What do you mean, Mrs Finanzminister, that the purchasing power of the people is preserved? In the case of inflation, Mrs Minister, who is in the main areas of life, eating, drinking and tanking, i.e. mobility, is already two-digit, or is going toward two-digitity, and in view of the fact that we are again – and I am going to say this again and again because you do not want to hear it because you ignore it – standing before a winter when 250 000 households cannot afford heating, Mrs Bundesfinanzminister?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: (heavy of) food and tanks!]] Heating oil has become twice as expensive in the last two years. Are you aware of that? And you are talking about the preservation of the purchasing power of the people, while there are up to a million people who have to decide every day in winter whether to eat, the fuel for the fuel or the heating oil for their heating?- Oh, my God! This is the decision people have to make! And you're talking about the preservation of purchasing power that can't be preserved for a long time because of your policy, Mrs. Minister! That's the truth! The highest tax rate, the highest tax rate, the highest rate of fees – and you are still talking about obtaining the purchasing power! So if you say the purchasing power will be You get it, then it's just a threat that you've been running out of here, Mrs. Minister. If, finally, you also say, Mr. and Mrs. Austrians can rely on me as Minister of Finance, then this is a joke, because the only thing that people can rely on is that you take the livelihood of increasing taxes, that you reduce the benefits, such as for families, that you reduce pensions and in the end you stay less net of gross. – This is your financial policy! We reject them. This is not a preservation of purchasing power. A preservation of purchasing power would be if you finally gave people more money to live and could achieve a comprehensive tax reduction and a comprehensive fair tax system so that people could have something back to life. That would be a social policy – and not an abolished one like yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8108	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Arbitrator reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8130	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The debate on the budget, which was partly held yesterday and which is being continued today, also shows some politically different views. But one thing has to be turned down to the strictest because of responsibility for the country and seriality, namely what Mr Bucher has said about the country here, because it is not true that anything is hidden. I also think it is not right and not good for our country if something wrong is said about our country on the media stage and a comparison is made with Greece. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Bucher spoke about the fact that everything was not clear. I would like to point out that in the documents sent to you, namely in the budget report on page 76, everything is listed in detail across all distributed companies, including through ÖBB infrastructure, ASFINAG, BIG. So exactly what he claimed to be opaque is explained in detail over the various years, from 2008 to 2013, in text and in figures. Something about the liabilities: There is once a year here in the National Council a report according to the Federal Budget Act on the liabilities of the federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] If a Member says here that there is no transparency about liability, the question arises whether this Member should not be careful if this is reported, or whether he wants to harm this Republic abroad. And I don't think both are reasonable. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] By the way, they are published twice: The liability is published quarterly on the website of the BMF, and in the invoice they are presented again. [[Abg. Kickl: Just because they're published, the numbers aren't getting better either!]] And there are limits of liability for the countries, not for the Federation itself. – This is the seriousness of this debate. But let me make a political assessment of the budget. Government policy, and in particular budgetary policy, are deeply political and social tasks. It is about the cohesion of society, the framework and the future of our society on financing. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a debt policy!]] Social cohesion, I believe, must take place at three levels: One is the support of the weaker in our society. We spend 9.3 billion on social matters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Of these, 6.4 billion are in the labour market policy alone, around 210 million more than in the previous year, so that people in this country have a job and employment is increasing in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: These are repairs!]] This is not a repair measure, but: Whoever works needs no support from the state and pays taxes. That is why it is the best measure to keep this country on the right track. That is why, in absolute terms, we have the highest employment at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] And I would also like to say to you, quite honestly: You can't invest money better than in people! In addition to supporting the weak, it is about strengthening and supporting the middle class. We invest 6 billion in selected areas of growth by 2016, 11.6 billion in schools and universities in the next year's budget, 1.6 billion more in addition to the old plan from the previous year for the school and school resort, for the expansion of day care and for the New Middle School for 750 million more. There are also 1.4 billion more for universities and colleges. On the field of research – this is also something where jobs for the middle class in our country are created with opportunities for the future, for sustainable economies, for small and medium-sized enterprises jobs are created where demand is created. In addition to the old plan with 60 million for the Young Entrepreneur offensive, we are also on the road for research, which ultimately means even 610 million. In total, 4.5 billion will be invested in the field of research. The third point I see in social cohesion in addition to support for the weakest and strengthening the middle class is to limit the excretion at the other end, namely at the top of society. That also means that in this budget we have planned to collect money from the speculators in the form of investment capital income tax, real estate growth tax, bank tax, and the solidary levy that comes from the richest. Why there? – Not only because of the justice argument, but also because it has no negative impact on growth and employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the future, I believe, another debate is obvious – including the recent study commissioned by the European Central Bank for the whole of Europe – because the wealth in our country is very unevenly distributed between the lowest tenth and the highest tenth. The top tenth has 581 times more wealth than the bottom tenth. Most of them are real estate assets. 1 per cent of Austrians own one third of total real estate, and only 1 per cent of Austrians have more than 1 million wealth, 99 per cent have less. The discussion must therefore continue in the future: How can we organise more justice and more social cohesion there? How can we also use capital taxes in the future to relieve labour? All these are discussions that are held everywhere, also being held in Austria. But with this budget, we ensure that transparent and future-oriented work is done for this country, so that we not only go well into the future, but also maintain social cohesion.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8254	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8275	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs Finanzminister! Values Members of the Federal Government! The Federal Government takes the fight against unemployment seriously. This is not only to be read in this budget. I can remind everyone that we have already adopted a very large labour market offensive this year in connection with the Consolidation Pact and € 750 million by 2016. This has already had a positive effect, ladies and gentlemen very much. If the Federal Government had not put in place these measures, unemployment would undoubtedly be much higher. I am on one point with Mr Westenthaler, yes, that every unemployed person/one unemployed person is too much and that we all have to fight together to eliminate this difficult situation for people. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh!]] The Federal Government takes this seriously. With this Federal Estimate, the third highest amount ever estimated in the budget is decided, that is, more than €1.3 billion. What's behind this big sum? – It includes the funding for operational apprenticeship funding of €163 million. It is important that young people have a job, it is important that young people have a education, so the well-invested money is to fight against youth unemployment. Also included in this sum are funds for short-term work aid of about €15 million. I can remind you that this measure has already been very successful. In establishments which need to reduce their production for a relatively short period of time, people should be helped to provide them with the opportunity to put in place qualification measures. This helps, on the one hand, the farm and, on the other, of course, also workers. One thing is also very important to me, because it was put in the room, nothing would happen – I'll give you another number –: All in all, 460,000 people from the AMS have been successfully taught this year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a remarkable number! We are very happy about this, and thank you very much also to the colleagues of the AMS. I believe that this federal proposal by the Federal Government is a good approach to respond to the forecast labour market development in 2013 in order to ensure that we continue to combat unemployment and give people the possibility of employment in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8325	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8346	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Of course we owe too much. Of course, the debt has exploded in Austria. And we also know that public debt has increased from 60 to 75 percent of GDP since 2007. But we also know the reasons for this. 2008 was one of the largest economic crises in post-war times. And if you look at the comparisons of the other countries, we know that Austria has managed very well to cope with the crisis and debt half way, I say to get under control. The budget presented yesterday by the Minister of Finance for 2013 is built on three stable pillars: Budgetary discipline – we know by 2016 – structural reforms and offensive measures. Although it is saved everywhere, it is not saved in the key areas to prevent the economy from being inhibited and to secure the future of this country. For example, in the field of safety – one of the most important centres –: In the last ten years, about 45 percent more have been spent on safety, about 42 percent more for education, around 100 percent more for research and development. However, we also know that reforms have been made and that there is also a need to save; we will have to think about it more often. There is a clear programme: support, ÖBB, pensions, health insurance and administrative reform. There are also additional revenue: From the Swiss tax and solidarity contribution for the service providers to the banking tax, which – as we heard today on the radio – has now also brought €500 million, although they all doubted. If thoughts come up again and again in the direction of increasing taxes, we must bear in mind that Austria is a high tax country, that we already have a 50% tax rate starting at €60 000 grossly, which is not available in the other economic countries at Weitem. And we know that 10 percent of the best earners spend about 50 percent of the taxes. Just a few words about the opposition: It is clear that the opposition must be criticized. I have heard from Mr Klubobmann Bucher that the small and medium-sized economy has to be relieved. Of course, she's a relief, and you have to see that's possible. It is a pity that Mr Bucher is not here now. I remember when he was installed in Carinthia as a tourist director at the time, where under his leadership for the many small businesses in the tourism sector in Carinthia the taxes – the tourist tax by 50 percent and the overnight tax by 100 percent – were increased. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I also have to say something quite clearly as far as the Freedom Party – whether BZÖ, FPK or FPÖ – is concerned: [[call to the FPÖ]] There is a country with Carinthia, ruled by the liberals, where they have been for 13 years to the Finance Council. And I do not wish this federal government that the financial policy here takes place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8413	The next speaker is Mr Herbert. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8434	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Obernosterer, there is already the question of who makes the better financial policy, but certainly not the EIA. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schenk and Mr Huber]] That's clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – And certainly she does not make the current Minister of Finance. Mr Grastaur has already mentioned it: The big throw is certainly not that. I would rather say that is probably the budget of the missed possibilities. Mr Obernosterer, because you have previously addressed the security, the interior, which has been invested in recent years: They have probably not yet taken a look at the financial report of this year and compared it to that of last year. Let's remember: Mrs Financis has spoken in her speech yesterday about the pathetic words. The future needs security, you said. She said that there was a need for an orderly execution in the area of asylum and migration. I can remind you: In 2008, the current Minister of Finance, then Interior Ministers, this House and the Austrian population promised 1 000 officials a year in the field of executives. 1 000 officials a year are to be taken up for the security of our country. The fact is that we have not achieved this quota in any single year. On the contrary. If one calculates the retirement leave at the executive, even staff will be reduced there. This reduction in staff is also reflected in this financial report, because with a first superficial perspective I could see that by 790 executive planning posts are less identified in this plan. That is, this government, this Minister of Finance is reducing security in Austria! – This is reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us still look at the current figures from criminal statistics, let me briefly quote some key data: general criminal action: plus 3.1 percent; Increase in violent crime: plus 5.5 percent; Internet crime: plus 150 percent. And if we look at the area of asylum and migration, as this one was also addressed: There was an increase in asylum applications of 20 percent. And all this is to be seen together with the great praise of the Federal Government, how good this financial concept is. I can therefore send a clear message to the Federal Government at this point: Our executives, who do excellent work despite the devastating framework conditions that this Federal Government sets out, have earned better than the rhetorical Placebos of our Minister of Finance. Rather, it should be equipped and equipped with those things of service that it actually needs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, I am already looking forward to the discussion on this subject in the Committee on Budgets. There is certainly a lot of work to be done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8509	Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8531	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! When I look at the Federal Government's 2013 budget report, I miss something very painful about the budgetary priorities, namely the large area of environment and climate protection. This is very surprising in times like this. There was no syllable on it. This is apparently not important to this government, and of course this is also reflected in the budget. The environmental budget has fallen markedly, and this is argued that the JI/CDM projects are no longer necessary in this form. Berlakovich does not take this as an opportunity to use these funds to invest in environmental and climate protection. This would be well-founded, because studies have shown that investments in this area, of course, help the environment, but also for the economy, are very important that there are very great multiplier effects and job opportunities in this context. – So this is something we are very painfully missing, namely that there is a corresponding dosage of the environment and climate protection area. In the next area, in research, yes, there are increases, although it should be stressed that these increases are very thin, especially if one compares them with the very high requirements that are set. When we look at the report of the Research and Technology Council and its recommendations, it becomes clear that the funding gap is very, very large, and that it will ultimately, if both the business and the public sector are calculated together, cumulate to 2 billion by 2020. Of course, it can be said that we're going to pick that up. Ladies and gentlemen, for research and development, one must now strengthen the basis, the basics, in order to be able to reap the fruits as well! In my opinion, with this minimal increase in the number of items, it has not been possible to close the research gap even more closely. There are, therefore, areas that are meagre, such as the environment and research, and other areas that are still very well-crusted. In this context, I refer to our tax system. It's outdated, that shows us a lot of studies. This is particularly evident in the fact that there are only very low environmental taxes, which represent only 5.8% of total Austrian tax revenue, very low capital taxes with about 1.3 percent, but relatively high labour costs. The tax revenue from wage and VAT accounts for almost two thirds, so it is very high. Finally, it would be a long time to tackle this, to shape the tax system ecologically and socially and to relieve labour. Mr State Secretary! These are major areas that you have to address, and it would be time, in particular, for this 2013 budget to make these important changes, even for – today much has already been the talk of the middle class – the one-person and small-time ventures. There are 240 000 single-person companies that create and secure their own jobs that need better, fair conditions. Today, the SVA presented the results of the survey of entrepreneurs. In my opinion, this was an Alibi action, at only the money of the insured was thrown away. The challenges are perfectly clear: We need a reduction in the minimum health insurance contribution base, we need a abolition of self-sufficiency and, of course, a fair system of unemployment benefit, sickness benefit and weekly allowance. This is exactly what the group of individual fighters and micro-enterprises needs. The construction sites are thus clearly marked in different areas. We will also negotiate this over the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8582	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8603	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, to refer to the fact that if you are already trying to measure my colleague, Bucher, and here you will return quotations from him, to do so properly and to restore them correctly. What you did was in no way correct and did not correspond to what Mr Bucher said here from the speaker's desk. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to comment on the comments made by Mr Obernoster: This does not make your untruths more true – I have already mentioned you in the previous debate – even if you repeat them so many times. I would like to say very clearly that Mr Bucher was neither in the state government nor in the country day in Carinthia and therefore is not responsible for what you said earlier from the speaker's desk, namely that he would have burdened the medium-sized enterprises. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – Perhaps you can do this to my colleague Obernoster, since he is not in the hall now. Now to the budget: The 2013 budget is the first budget under the new budget law. This is quite positive and is to be seen as progress, because we have also taken part in this new budgetary law here in the House. But there are a lot of points to be critical of. Major reforms and projects have not been addressed again, and this is not only what we are saying from the BZÖ, but it has already found the WIFO in October, and the IHS and the Court of Auditors note this over and over again, that the major health, education and pension reforms have not been addressed and that this has not been included in the budget. There has been criticism – unfortunately, the Federal Minister is not in the hall now – not only by the mentioned ones, but also by the coalition partner. Yesterday we heard the tone of election in the Hohe Haus. Through the “Report” interview of Minister Darabos, this has intensified even further, and here too there has been harsh criticism of the coalition partner at the Minister’s budget. Not only does the coalition partner come from criticism, but also from his own party friend Leitl, who said that the structural reform measures were not taken and that millions of euros would slumber in the field of public administration, ladies and gentlemen. You also have to say this here in stone and clear terms and also tell the spectators here in Parliament and the spectators in front of the television screens. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Over the last ten years, since the ÖVP has created finance ministers, debt in Austria has increased to € 87 billion. 87 billion €, ladies and gentlemen! So much for this because you are always presenting yourself here as a spa master, tax relief truck et cetera. The opposite is true! The ÖVP, these finance ministers have made €87 billion in debt over the last ten years. It has been mentioned several times today that the Austrians have less and less money to spend. They earn less and less, and prices rise. Inflation was 2.7 percent in September of this year, and the price of the shopping cart increased by 4.3 percent; Heating oil has become 11.6 percent more expensive. Ladies and gentlemen! If one can believe the forecasts that a cold, dry winter is coming, then the heating costs will explode, then we have even more people who live at the poverty line that heating can no longer afford. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Something has to be done! There's got to be put on! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Head: How?]] How? – What about our model of fair tax, tax relief? People need more money to boost purchasing power in order to boost the economy. We have made a large number of requests, proposals, a thousand opposition requests, in the committees. - Hello, anybody at home? – They should be processed once and not made ridiculous. [[Abg. Head: Hello?- Oh, my God!]] Don’t say “Hello!” it’s so. That's incredible! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also have liked to ask the Minister because I saw yesterday the “ZiB 2” interview in which she spoke about driving and a full brake, which makes you hit the windshield. - I don't know how Mrs. Car is driving. I also drive a lot by car, I also often make a full brake, have to do it unfortunately, but I am strapped and have never been beaten against the windscreen. As a sidestep, I would have been interested in how the woman's minister keeps driving. I would also like to stress a positive point, namely that the Minister has spoken against the reintroduction of the inheritance tax, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court in 2008 because this is an unfair tax, a double taxation, which is taxed on small and medium-sized enterprises, would be difficult to take over. We also reject this tax, which was written in the main book to all the advocates of this tax: With us, there will be no such tax, nor will God be grateful with the ÖVP. That is what the Minister of Finance said yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8690	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8712	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on a central part of this budget, on education policy. They all know that we jointly made our way to a new school five years ago, almost six years ago, in the field of early promotion, took first steps with the compulsory kindergarten year, with a federal education plan, have introduced smaller groups in the field of language promotion, the The maximum number of students is reduced, education standards for the 4th and 8th years. The modular upper level has been introduced by the new Matura. These were many, many measures, which, as we all know, because the educational tanker is moving only slowly, will only show its effect over the years, but they are incredibly important if one wants to deal with the future in the field of education. An important area at the centre of education expenditure next year is expenditure on the New Secondary School in addition to those which have been fixed for language promotion – also a very important area. Countries and municipalities will receive €24 million in addition for the coming year, plus an additional €80 million as well as last year and the next three years, thus a total of €400 million for the expansion of day care. The money for the New Middle School is also a very important budget item because it paves the way to the core of the new school, namely to the common school in a fully limited form. We must follow this path. I am pleased that the Tyrolean head of state is progressing among the national leaders in the area. I am pleased that various regions are working in this sense, that Caritas, Church, Industrial Association, Education People's Desire and many others are going along this path. It will be very crucial that we finally end this selection of young people with 8, 9 years of age, by dividing them into different drawers and thus robbing them of their prospects for the future and at the same time hindering a school form that is entirely, very important. I am also pleased that the Minister has said so clearly and clearly that this New Secondary School will also be the way to the common school for her. This will also be the challenge of the coming years. Our goal is and remains: It is not supposed to stay on track, and we want to promote all young people according to their talents and talents and help them to develop them. This budget is another big step in this direction. It is also worthwhile to continue to fight for this in the field of education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8760	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8781	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It should be noted that, as a result of the agreement between the Federal Government, countries and municipalities on the Austrian Stability Pact 2012, decided in Parliament, it is not yet announced, it will enter into force retroactively with 1. In January 2012, countries will have to achieve a balanced budgetary result and thus contribute to the overall consolidation path. – Office of the NÖ State Government, Department of Municipalities. – This is an excerpt from the letter that has been given to the mayors of Lower Austria in the last few days, and I assume that this has also been done in the other federal states. What does that mean? – It is exactly what we need, this joint action by the federal, country and local authorities. We simply have to work together if we really want to reduce the state deficit if we want to achieve budget consolidation. Budgetary discipline alone at federal level will not be enough. We have created a viable pillar with the introduction of the debt brake at the federal level and the internal Austrian Stability Pact with the countries and communities, including public budgets in the long term. Nevertheless, we also know that the reform package alone, which we have chained, will work, but will not yet be enough. At present, more people are at work than ever before, 160 000 more jobs have been created. Nevertheless, we must worry because we see in the European states around us that the world economy and economic growth are stagnating. And we feel this right down to the communities. That is why we must not only observe these now and in the future, but also fully involve us when it comes to how the tensions within monetary union are developing. Not only do we have to react to this, but we also need to take appropriate measures to that end. We must do everything we can to keep Austria's economic location attractive. We must do everything we can to maintain confidence in the Austrian economy. It is not only for companies, but also for workers to be assured. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] No Austrian should wake up in the early morning and ask himself: Do I still have my job tomorrow? Is my company at risk? Is my company perhaps moving abroad because the tax burden could be too high? Therefore, it would also be fatal, ladies and gentlemen, to hunt companies outside the country by introducing new taxes or increasing the tax rate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to quote at this point our clubman Karlheinz, who said this yesterday in his speech: Businesses are fast abroad, but the unemployed stay there. We need to take care of these here, and we also need to take care of them. And he went on to say: We have a 44 percent burden in Austria. We've already reached the ceiling. And if we really don't just want to keep the balance internationally, but can also claim, then we just need a damping at least to 40 percent, which Karlheinz Kopf has called for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's clear: Someone who does a service must not be punished for it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What about the unemployed income?]] We are currently on the reverse path. That's why it says to us as a People's Party: Renew instead of tax! It is about thinking about opportunities and also setting up savings measures where over the last few years we have taken superfluous measures. It's actually about sparing where there are. I see this in the community. Over the last few years and decades, there has been a high level of performance in many areas – we have often discussed this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors – which are not necessary, but which we cannot and do not want to afford in this form. If you bring this closer to the citizens, they understand that too. This also means transparency in the design of budgets, whether at municipal, national or federal level. With this 2013 budget, our Minister of Finance has succeeded perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8866	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8888	Mr President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The highest indebtedness of the Republic that has ever existed – that is once the Quintessence of this budget, and yet it is saved where you can only save. Saving is good, but as my previous speaker, Mr Herbert, has already said clearly: Of course, you also save extremely much in security, and this is a dangerous game that you have been playing with every budget for years. It is saved from the police, it is also saved at the judicial station. In the summer hole, the media have gone through the media that in the judicial institutions the normal service can no longer be maintained, and nevertheless, according to this new budget, 64 planning posts will be saved there again. This is really grossly negligent, and it does not, of course, help if the Minister of Justice announces 93 new plans for family law and anti-corruption. Also these 93 new planning sites are just a drop on the hot stone. That will not be enough either. So there is already a lot of breakage in the area, and there is already a very, very high level of poker and very, very dangerous played with the safety of the people in this country who simply and simply did not deserve it. You have to say that. It is all the more amazing when you see that much in the resorts – I am not talking about tax increases at all – is not exhausted at all. It is actually terrifying that a cash sum of up to € 1,221 is not interested in the judge or the competent prosecutor, carried by lawbreakers who are brought into judicial institutions. Only an amount above is required to report to the competent judge, and only then can it be used for execution costs, procedural costs. There could be a lot of savings for the Republic, and there could be a lot of savings in the area of justice. That's being negated, they're peanuts, they're little things. I would just like to know who put €1 221 in plenary. That's not so little money if you're picked up by the police. Unfortunately, no one is interested. That's where you could save. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You don't do that, you just wipe it away. These are “small things” – and the working citizen is getting into the bag every day with each budget, as it is saved, as it is increased, as taxes are increased and new taxes are reinvented – and so on and so on. You don't get tired of finding new ideas. But you could save there, you could access it. It is true that we must not forget that many procedural costs in the field of justice are inconceivable, because it is not looked at more precisely whether the money has, if there may be hidden money. This is simply considered intolerable. In the case of performance costs, you also do not look closely, and if the person goes home he will be paid € 1,000. If the longer one is in prison, this will also cost a few thousand euros. That's what the father's paying for, because we seem to have it anyway. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In fact, this is objectionable, you have to explain to the citizens outside, who no longer know how to pay the fuel at the gas station, how to buy it. There you sit down and say that we have money, because all this doesn't matter, there's nothing checked, there's nothing going on. This is simply where the money is thrown out with both hands – and this has been so with every budget in recent years – and for the working population, which has to turn the euro three times or four times, one simply has no understanding. There you increase taxes, you introduce new fees, and, and, and – and there are new load waves. This is no longer understandable, because there is really little thought. In particular, the field of justice is an area which – many countries show this above – can receive itself to a certain extent, because revenue can also be made available. If you were to do this really well and the ministers and ministers would work well with their ministries, you could, I think, save a lot of money, and then you could afford a certain amount of staff increase again without costing taxpayers, citizens more money. But of course, if you're rather lax and you don't save, you don't do anything and you don't control anything and you just run it as it has been for years and decades, and you just don't research the felt, you have to invent taxes again and again, or you say you cut down planning places, you're cut short on safety. This is, of course, the objection that one could, of course, offset such a thing with revenue, and then, of course, one could afford a certain amount of staff increase for the safety of Austrians – what the population wants – of course. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would be possible, that is not utopian at all, that is, when you talk to the citizens outside, what the citizens of us also demand from the ministries: Save in your own house and not with the citizens, the belt tighter, turn the euro around three times and four times in your own house and simply lower certain sums, such as € 1,221, and apply for execution costs, for personnel costs. That would actually be responsible in times like this, where one has to save, financial justice, savings policy. But we don't think that's what's going on, and that's a shame. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8961	Mr Dr. Walser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e8982	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Today we have heard several times that education is the heart of this budget, I say. When you scratch a little bit on the numbers, when you scratch this building, it turns out very, very quickly, that this is not the case. The findings of the Austrian education system are a very hard, careful statement. We all have to be clear that we are developing the system, that we can achieve more positive results only if we invest something in school, in universities. There will be no educational reform at zero. Now I am clear, and I say this quite consciously – as Vorarlberg's MP, perhaps not as surprising as well –: However, saving is of course the first goal. For us Greens, however, this means: save useful, save where you can save. And if I speak of it, I am of course called on, as an educational speaker of the Greens, to make such savings proposals in my own field. We have done this several times – unfortunately, the Minister is not here now, but perhaps one can judge it – because what we have said to her in this regard is not just a green idea, for example, that also has the Indus Triellenvereinigung, also the experts of the management club, have said this to representatives of many institutions. They all come only in the field of education, in the area of the administration of the school alone, to a savings potential of € 100 to 120 million, which is not even addressed. These facts are clear, unfortunately results are still outstanding. But we need, and that is the central point for us, in the education system, more fairness. We must ensure that it no longer depends on the place of birth and the family into which one is born, whether one can or cannot make education careers in that country. Children from academic families have six times higher chances of coming to an AHS-Matura, to a Matura at all than children from families, where parents only have compulsory schooling. That should make us think! We are only in front of Turkey and Mexico internationally. All other countries have much more education justice than we do. So we have to invest, we have to invest in a sustainable way, the money needs to be spent carefully, and I would call on the ÖVP in particular. The President of the Chamber of Labour of Tyrol made it quite clear yesterday where the journey in the field of education must go. We need a modern common school. He pointed to South Tyrol, where we have had a common school since 1962. The result: Nordtirol has more than twice as many problems in the field of reading skills, in the area of language competence as South Tyrol. If this is the case of the President of the Austrian Chamber of Labour, in Tyrol even the head of state says if the other ÖVP-near institutions say: Please overcome your ideological blockades that you have, and go this way with us so that we can build together on a school system that guarantees one thing that is the central requirement for us Greens in the field of education, namely, not to leave a child behind! No child may be punished in that country by its origin, whether it be the region or the family. Every child must have his chance. With us Greens you can enforce this, look at our concepts, then go forward in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9037	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9058	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The tax and tax rate now increases by 0.5 percent and is 43.1 percent. Tax revenue increases by €3.1 billion. Public debt increases by 6 billion to 209.3 billion, the distributed debt, which I would like to address in particular now, from the Austrian Federal Railways, from the ASFINAG and from the Federal Property Society in 2013 to 36.4 billion. Without the countries and communities, without the distributed societies of the two and without cross-border leasing obligations, the debt is 245.7 billion. Thus, Austria's public debt is very much approaching the 300-billion-€ mark. Nevertheless, we remain below the Maastricht limit of 3 per cent, with about 2.3 per cent below it. But with €6.7 billion, the finish is still very, very high. Consolidation, security of the future has been raised, only I believe that this is now a standstill. Great reforms have not been achieved, as has been the case in recent years, and the day-to-day Hickhack is increasing very easily. This can be seen in the educational discussion, in the military discussion, in various other things, and also at the mid-terms of individual members of the government during yesterday's budget speech. Major projects such as financial compensation or redefinition of unit values are likely to be transferred back to the next legislative period. No sign of administrative reform, no state reform. Mrs Oberhauser, these are lip confessions. But I admit that red and black would amputate themselves if they were to actually put on the savings fund there – in the administrative reform, in the state reform. But since you are now on the list of speakers, I believe that it is not a responsible minister for the labour market here, neither the Minister for Economic Affairs nor the Minister for Social Affairs, I would like to address a few words on employment policy to them. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: (in the direction of Federal Minister Stöger) But the most important minister is already there!]] - Yes, they're all ministers important. On record employment: Yes, we are all proud that we have 3.5 million employees. We have an international view of one of the lowest rates of unemployment, and even in the field of youth employment, we are half good at it internationally, not a question, because we are all proud of it. And every unemployed person is too much, we agree. In any case, we should do everything we can to ensure that this unemployment does not rise! You know she's getting up. You have to be careful not to exaggerate her. And the aim of this coalition and the Federal Government is to raise the employment rate of the older, the 50-64-year-old. There is currently an employment of 51.3 percent. It's supposed to be increased to 51.5 percent. I'm just asking you, how? There are no jobs for the elderly. The elderly apply, for the most part do not even get an answer, and if there are answers, Mr. Klubobmann's head, then it is so that you do not even insist that this application be rejected because you are too old, but other things are cited. [[Abg. Head: This will change quickly in demographics!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] There must be a consciousness! [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. May. Worm.]] We should, no matter what group, work together to ensure that the elderly are also important if we are to increase the employment of older people. I think that's important. The retirement age should also not be debated separately from the contribution periods. It is discussed, we make a pension account or not. You're also in disagreement. Should this be done in such a way that everyone sees how much he has paid, and that is then divided by life expectancy? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] It's colporting. The question is: Is this going to be done or not? You're leaving the payroll system, aren't you? But we need to have a direction, where do we really want to go? And the pension privileges in the social security institution have not yet been cleaned up. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is one thing and the other, the advantages under the ASVG system and the benefits under the civil service system. After ten years, everyone is unannounceable, an official's pension and an additional pension is extra from social security, which is always in red numbers anyway, and by the way still a discharge. So, of course, it can't be that way! The privileges are also continuing in other areas, such as the ÖBB or the National Bank. That once belongs to circumcision and the level adjusted by all Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9142	Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9163	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Dolinschek, we have heard these proposals very well about the pension system, but also the answers to them – at least from my side, that we do not want to do so. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: But?]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: They're a little bit!]] The example is quite simple: If I do this the way it is proposed by the experts we have more and more, then a part-time woman can work 150 years to live from the money she gets herself. So we're not really on your side either. On the question of the employment of over 50-year-olds there are now proposals from this independent committee of experts, where it is said that the protection of termination of over 50-year-olds must be abolished. [[Abg. Head: You don't have to accept that, do you?]] On the question of how to deal with employees in order to strengthen Austria's economic location, Mrs Schittenhelm has so kindly said that it is possible to pay under collective agreement if the situation requires this to make Austria's economic location attractive. – That means that there are enough proposals from experts. I believe that we should make a political decision there, and I can say to social democracy that we will defend ourselves with hands and feet under guarantee, and that will not come in the form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now we are actually talking about the health budget, and I believe that we have gone a very good way between, I say now, saving, consolidating and trying to treat people well. On the question of health insurance recovery, I can remember, we have said that under black and blue the health insurance funds have become sick cash registers. So we've really picked up that now, and the health insurance companies are on a good path thanks to a cash recovery fund and all these things now, on a good, consolidated path. I believe that we can really congratulate the Minister Stöger in the form. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Head.]] What is also very often criticized is that little money is invested in prevention. The number of projects we now have in this budget in the prevention sector is significantly rising. There have been vaccination programs that we have not had until now. A vaccination program will be launched tomorrow, together with the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, Minister Hundstorfer and Minister Stöger, for people who cannot afford to be vaccinated. That is, we all know that these are steps that are not the very big thing that is inside the health budget, as with all other things, but they are steps in the right direction. And I know – let me say this – that living in the green prevention and healthy and all these things are really important, and I am very glad that I can tell you all here that Klubobfrau Glavischnig is really looking at her health right now. It was put in the newspapers today that we somehow turned off the investigation committee. Mrs Glawischnig is for the salary she is paying here, namely for almost €14 000 gross a month, just jogling in front of the town hall, while we sit here, for €8 000, and let us beat for it. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Head: was at a football match yesterday, where we were sitting here!]] So I believe that we should really take this seriously in the matter of taking seriously, especially in the matter of today's debate, and take our work seriously here, taking the budget seriously here, because this has deserved this government to be properly discussed here!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9286	Mr. Dr. Rasinger is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9307	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! You're now going to be from me as I'm sure you don't expect me to get any bad diagnosis about health care and health care. We had a guest today, he's gone again, from WHO. He told us that Austria is a role model, so it's a model. He came extra from WHO, Geneva and said he would like more Austrian doctors and sisters to go to Africa, Asia, so that they can also make some kind of development aid there. And do you know what this guy said about his greatest fear? He comes from Switzerland, works in Geneva and has now been in Germany. He says: The few doctors – let's say – in Rwanda, in Mozambique, who, after their education, go to Germany, to Switzerland – not yet Austria, because the Germans and Swisss train too little. This is a kind of negative development aid. They are robbing the countries of health care. I then said: You can be calmed, we still have enough doctors, but now the Swiss and Germans are robbing us of the doctors. We have 2,800 doctors already working abroad. Why? – The salary is significantly better, and the working conditions are better. This guest from WHO also said something interesting: Each measure in health care shall last at least ten years, and: Aren't you scared? – I said: I'm not afraid at all, because of course the health care would be in good hands with me. It's also in good hands with Minister Stöger, whom I've always been a bit troubled. But if we don't think about it, we won't lie to each other in the bag. Of course we already have problems. When I think about what young colleagues and doctors tell me in education, from the AKH, et cetera, when I look at the burn-out rate that is much higher than in the normal population – sick doctors are supposed to heal sick – then I'm a little scared. We also take far too little account of the relationship between women, work and family. More than 50 percent of women work in the profession today. How is someone in the AKH going to do a training by 6:00 p.m. and then do research? Someone can only become a lecturer if he publishes three top works in journals, and he can only publish these works if he is fully researched. That means he can start researching at 6:00 p.m. [[Abg. May. Worm: You!]] - I can't do that! There is no money for travel abroad, for stays abroad. It really shouldn't be a hobby for people who have rich parents who make it possible to become a lecturer in this country. [[Abg. May. Worm: Or lecturer in!]] Our services are great, our services are undoubtedly great. We build 20 000 new hips a year, 17 000 knees et cetera. 60,000 people can see better after a cataract surgery. Let's take a look at prevention. I was now at the German Sports Doctors' Congress, where it was clearly said that it is proven that every day about half an hour of movement – not running – you are going to extend your life by five years, less diabetes, less cancer. However, this did not go through to the Austrian citizen and unfortunately not to the Austrian health policy. I look with envy at my colleagues Haubner, who gets 80 million from the Lotto funds – I am glad; I always say he should give me a bit of it – and we smumper, or as always called, at €7 million for the Fund Healthy Austria. That's actually a shame in a health care, where you're putting a lot into the repair medicine. One last word: I am a house doctor, as many know, I am writing many recipes in Parliament, which is illegal, because this would be a second coordination, that would not be allowed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] But I'll tell you one thing: Ask young people at the clinics, ask young students who say house doctor is a no-go – although this is a nice profession – because: lots of bureaucracy, constant justification-must at the health insurance, a bad income. Mr Minister, there are already ads that are being searched for by domestic doctors. I'm telling you, every measure in health care lasts ten years. I've intervened in the government program. Let's not lie to any sayings that we're doing so much anyway, in the bag! It is necessary that we now begin to develop a family doctor model, such as Baden-Württemberg, like England. All major states know that primary care is important. We don't just need Sunday's speeches, but we need nails with heads. I'll get you together. Thank God we have one of the best health systems in the world in Austria, but if it remains good, we really need to cremate the sleeves.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9372	Now comes Mrs Mag. Inconsistency. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9394	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! Unfortunately, the draft budget shows very clearly that Mrs Bundesminister Schmied, who is unfortunately not present now, is not a designer in cultural policy, but a mere administrator. For them, cultural policy – I would like to work out three priorities – means first of all to evaluate rather than reform, second left-wing state artists to allow them to rely on the permanent subvention drop – I put it that way – and third, left ideology, for example, the multicultural ideology, instead of preserving our identity. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Ad 1) I remember the Bundestheater analysis. She cost a fortune and was treated like a secret paper. To this day, I actually do not know exactly what consequences have been drawn from it. Or I remember the project, I say, that fortunately failed Museum Neu, which wanted to merge the museum of folklore with the museum of folklore into a multicultural spectacle, into a multicultural temple. It is sad that the Volkskundemuseum, which is unique and the largest in Europe, has no place in the Federal Minister at all. By the way, it is long since the time that the Museum of Art is released from the complex of the Art History Museum and is made an independent Federal Museum next to the Volkskundemuseum. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] Ad 2) Looking back over the last four years, I must say that Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied has delegated the fields of art and culture to her red section heads – I say so salopp – and these have nothing to do but put the treasures of the SPÖ under the subsidy-filling horn. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For today's speech, I have only chosen a single example. If anyone of you should have read the art report, fill these entries to the popular artists' pages. I'm taking Robert Menasse. Hohes Haus, Robert Menasse received over the past few years saying and writing 308 957 € on tax payments from the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Schmied, in the form of state prices, factory scholarships and travel grants. One has to know that this is month by month – for more than ten years – €2 577, since the revenue from the city of Vienna and the other federal states is not yet taken into account. I know he's used again and again when it comes to yelling about the evil, evil FPÖ. Ad 3) For us liberals, culture is the foundation of society, I say it again and again, that is not just an ornament. We liberals are the only ones here in the house who want to pass on our cultural heritage, our values, our traditions, our customs, our customs, and especially the language – only if you have read the budget, it is only in the form of anglizisms – unharmed to the next generation. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not going backwards, but it is a self-confident look into the future, because I think it is high time to chase out this 68s mief and finally open the windows and let in fresh air. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] For example, the country of music Austria shows that the Federal Minister for Art and Culture – she is also responsible for the field of education, I mention this in particular – has no ambitions to force a federal coordination and promotion of music education. To date, the Federal Minister has not taken advantage of the great opportunity that would be given because she is responsible for both departments to make a link between education and art. She didn't do that, and music lessons remained only national. If you look – and I believe, Minister of Science, you can confirm – how many Austrians have even remained at the University of Music, then this is not only a shame, but it is a tragedy for the country of music Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate for me to note that of the many ideas we have brought in – and that was a wealth of ideas, and I am not one of the opposition politicians, who simply rush; I am really a creative, constructive opposition politician – nothing has been received. I'm sorry, and that's why I have to repeat my accusation. strengthen that the minister is not the one she could be, a great reformer. She just, as I said at the beginning, remained an administrator.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9481	Now comes Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9502	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I want to dedicate myself to two chapters. One is the gender budgeting, for some perhaps a word they don't like so much, but it now has constitutional rank. [[Abg. Singer: This is very important!]] Gender budgeting is binding on the next year, not only in terms of the overall budget, but it must be at least one of the five measures to be taken by the Ministries, and therefore I am really disappointed that the Minister of Finance yesterday spoke, and at least one and a half hours, has not mentioned the words ‘gener budgeting’ and ‘equilibrium’ in the budget. That's remarkable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] – That you don't understand, we already know that for a long time. Maybe it also matters to you how it is. [[Abg. Singer: It'll take a while!]] To give just one example, because you are just sitting behind me, Minister of Health: They have among the five objectives of one which would have a relevant gender dimension, namely the occupational diseases, which is prevention in the case of occupational diseases. And unfortunately, it doesn't happen that it hits women completely different from men. We have already discussed this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and we have tabled an application for occupational diseases of women, which are quite different from those of men who are not, in part, recognized. It is one of the disappointing things in this context that it is obvious that there is no balance between men and women in this budget. This is just a small example. I could mention many more, and I can also talk to you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, in the committees. I can promise. [[Abg. Singer: Very good!]] [[Abg. New builder: There are good and bad entertainment!]] Overall, it is disappointing because the women's budget has not increased either. In other words, if you think about inflation in what is happening to women's promotion, it means that there is much less available for women in the respective institutions. If you change this, there is €1.24 per woman in money for women's advice or a minute for advice for women in Austria. That is really little, and it shows how low this female budget is and that it would be all the more important that gender budgeting is finally lived on budget. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to address a second area, which is development cooperation. The Minister – and this is also significant – said yesterday in her speech that it would be a command of humanity that at the last moment the development cooperation budget was brought to the stage of 2012 that these further savings, which were planned, were stopped. This is not a command of humanity. This also shows your understanding of development cooperation. It is not about alms, it is not about help, it is about fulfilling our responsibilities, and our responsibility is also to comply with international agreements, that is, to draw up a stage plan, so that we can devote 0.7 percent of gross national income to development cooperation. We are far, far away, and it simply means nothing but to assume our responsibility, namely that we are co-polluters in the world's downfall. This starts with climate change, which goes to trade policy, which is a broad field in which we need to invest massively. This is not about aid for the poor and alms, as Mrs Minister understands. I can only see this withdrawal of savings as a sign of a hopeful change in the trend, because otherwise, if the financial framework continues, it would look at least as bad as planned in 2014. And that can't be the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9610	Mr Mag. Widmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9632	Madam President. High house! In front of us is a cuddly budget for the 2013 election campaign, made by the silk caterpillar Josef Cap and the butterfly head. Why do I say that? – Because the budget itself does not bring any real innovations, does not bring any reforms, does not bring any approaches to picture future prospects accordingly. I'll explain that too. But there are also very positive things that I would like to highlight, namely that we have jointly decided to enforce a new budgetary law in the sense of effective management, and that we have worked together to set up a budget service and thus to enhance Parliament's rights accordingly. I grab out two chapters: Environment and science. At the environmental budget, I notice that the budget is falling dramatically. This is also clear because Kyoto commitments will end. This is about €200 million, which we will spend less, for example for JI/CDM programmes, which are very controversial, are also controversial for us, because we believe it would be better to take money in order to really implement energy autarchy in Austria, rather than to invest it in projects that are partly not transparent abroad. It is also a question of forcing renewable energy in Austria. I read again and again in the advertisements by Mr Berlakovich on the importance of renewable energy, the importance of energy autarchy. And I'm wondering now: What are the results so far? What are the specific data? What is the outcome of the Climate Advisory Council? I would be very connected if he were here today or could explain to us in the next days and weeks what he really does for climate protection – because that is hard to see – except to advertise expensively. I am already on the next subject, the KLI.EN, the Climate and Energy Fund. I hear that the Minister of Economic Affairs also wants to set up a fund for energy efficiency. That's the total insanity! I believe that we need a fund where climate, energy and the environment are combined, just as there should only be a ministry for the environment and energy, not that we have the environment at the Minister for Agriculture and then the energy at the Minister for Economic Affairs. That's yes. It's totally contradictory. There's some way to make the bock a gardener. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is to say, we are talking about simple, logical, comprehensible, meaningful reform measures that can be implemented immediately. There is only one need to take appropriate measures, and that could be done quickly. You don't do it. Or it is certainly better to restructure the KLI.EN and equip it better than after a quarter of an hour the house builders, the small businesses and the medium-sized enterprises need to know that they do not receive photovoltaic support. That's a total nonsense. So that's where you have to put in order to expand it. You don't need to apply for this photovoltaic support with 200 000 €. It's better to put this money into the photovoltaic promotion itself, rather than advertise it with the Minister's head. I have addressed the climate strategy. The thermal renovation is positive, but far too little equipped. To the advertising costs in general: I would be interested if another State Secretary sat behind me, as the ad costs 2013 look through the resorts. – Skill You're going to tell me what it's going to be like in the election year? How many millions will disappear in the Federal Chancellery, in the Ministry of Agriculture, in the Ministry of Infrastructure? That would be an interesting number to know what is generally planned, or whether you have already learned and finally abandon this nonsense. With regard to the field of science: You are here, Minister of Science, I would like to ask you to make a point of order with this little bit of tuition fees! The Constitutional Court has brought you back to your attention today. I ask you to create really quick order, to introduce study fees so that the bazaar methods according to the motto: Where can I make the same study at a cheaper price?, stop. It is totally unrealistic and completely unrealistic what is going on there. With regard to the Research Promotion Act – it has been discussed for a long time: They have provided a good example with the ISTA. The Institute of Science and Technology Austria in Klosterneuburg is something important, right and good. But it has a privilege: It has a funding from 2017 to 2026 amounting to € 988 million. Mr Minister, I would also like to see this for all universities, for a long-term security of research at universities and also for other institutions. They don't have that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Last but not least: Mr Minister, we have a research path – this concerns the entire government – which is planning to invest 3.76 percent of GDP in research by 2020. – Where is the money for this when the Joanneum Research and the Research and Technology Development Council in the “Vienna Newspaper” say yesterday that only € 2 billion will be missing in 2020? To sum up, it's almost €10 billion. Where does the money come from? Tell us! Make the reforms in the budget, in general! Do your political tasks! If you follow the Court of Auditors' proposals, you will also have the money we need to serve the future fields in order to make Austria future-oriented! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9714	Mrs Mag. Worm is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9737	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I too listened very carefully yesterday when the Federal Minister for Finance gave her budget speech. I have also noticed, as the previous speaker has already said, that equality policy has not been mentioned, that little has been said about women's policy. However, much has been said about the fact that we are now in the second stage of the new budgetary law, that there is now the opening balance, that we have a final balance sheet, that we have the effects on the question: Where does the budget work? That's where I'm on the popular gender budgeting topic. Gender budgeting – for those who have not really been in the process since 2009 – has not really written it into their own heart or brains, once again – has been enshrined in the Constitution since 2009. [[Abg. Singer: There has been that since 2006! I've known that for six years!]] 2013 – four years of our time – it must be realized, and this means that the government budget must promote equality between women and men. So, now is soon 2013, and I've been looking at it: As far as the question of cross-sectional matter is concerned, you would always have liked women's policy to be a cross-sectional matter, but if you look more closely at this cross-section, it is often noted that women are subsumed when it comes to protecting themselves from violent relations. That alone will be too little. It is also an important aspect to live self-determined, only: Women's policy must be found in all possible areas. I know that gender budgeting is still in its infancy, and we are always referred to internationally as an example, and the Ministry of Finance is always sending on and making international seminars, lectures. But there is still a lot to be improved here in the country, at the federal, state and also at the municipal levels. I would like to see appropriate measures here, whether in connection with the issue of childcare or, above all, because I recently had such an interesting brochure by the Minister of Finance, in relation to the tax system. Financing, i.e. the distribution of taxes, would be a very important field where gender equality could be introduced by looking at the effects of different measures on women in that country. There would be a lot to do. There has been a study by the Chamber of Labour, conducted by WIFO, and in this there would be instructions for action. I hope that in this Much is done in order to achieve more fairer distributions between men and women. Tax policy would be a good approach to this. And as for real estate, I just heard today that 1 percent of those who own real estate own a third of the real estate. Now I would like to know more precisely how many women are among those who own this third. There, I think, it looks very, very bad. That's where we need to catch up. And I wish this would be more ambitious.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9772	Now comes Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9795	Madam President. Minister of Science! Minister of Health! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to begin today on the occasion of the budget speech by Mrs Bundesminister, who gave her yesterday, with a quote from Benjamin Franklin, who said: “An investment in knowledge is still bringing the best interest rates.” – This motto was clearly achieved by the Federal Government with the 2013 budget. It has brought the trio between budget discipline, courage to structural reforms and offensive measures for the future in balance. The main basic attitude in times of uncertainty is the ability to adapt to new and unexpected ones. That was done with this draft budget. We have launched future security through more investment in education, more investment in science and research, more investment in promoting the independence of young people. We urgently need growth impulses, we need innovation in Austria, and we need the competitiveness of our businesses to achieve a corresponding employment rate. We all see the terrifying images in some regions of Europe every day. Austria has mastered the crisis at Weitem better than many of our neighbours. This is due, among other things, to our investment in vocational training, which is due, among other things, to the willingness of our businesses, our young people from 15 years old. If we were not able to achieve this, we would not be able to achieve these excellences. The source of this behaviour is always in education, from early promotion to lifelong learning. And this budget is precisely trying to achieve good, forward-looking approaches from early promotion to lifelong learning, tailored to a tight budget framework. Unfortunately, many European countries are currently reducing their scientific and research budgets. That's not good for Europe. We have clear objectives, and with Horizon 2020, we want to put the EU budget for 2014 to 2020 exactly the impetus that research can bring and strengthen our competitiveness in the economy. But what does Austria do? – Austria is already investing very consciously in science, education, research. This begins with day care, goes about language promotion, does not end in science, but strengthens and supports science. The Minister of Science has succeeded in clarifying the importance of the negotiations, and I would like to thank him at this point and also thank the Federal Minister for Finance for ensuring that she has expressed the future in this budget and thus has given our universities and technical colleges the opportunity to show and expand their achievements in the coming years. However, there is also a need for more private funds. We therefore continue to make a clear commitment to the collection of study contributions with a socially balanced extension of study aid. The IHS chief, Professor Keuschnigg, has also stressed this thesis again yesterday and in recent days, namely that it is necessary to strengthen private contributions here as well. We need improved study conditions, which is why we also need new, capacity-oriented university funding. The foundation for this is laid with the budget. Federal Minister! Good for further negotiations! From our page you have any support to carry out this budget in this form as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9847	Mr Mayerhofer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9868	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! The world can be so different: Mrs Wurm is talking about gender budgeting – and the robbers are going through the country. And that's why we're already in the field of interiors. Of course, the Austrian criminal tax payer cannot be satisfied with the performance of the Minister of the Interior; neither can the Austrian police officer, who identifies himself with his task and puts his whole heart in his task as a married man. We note that Mrs Innenministers with her top officials unfortunately always mentions only the sense of security, but not the actual security as the goal of her efforts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Also noteworthy are the activities that are obviously set in the course of the upcoming Lower Austrian country election, where Mr. Landeshuppmann, in cooperation with the Minister of the Interior, announces a great initiative to take over border controls and, however, gives the impression that border controls were actually taking place in the future – after old ways, as in the EURO 2008, as we were. In other words, it is the case, ladies and gentlemen. In the coming weeks, we will naturally be happy to clarify this misunderstanding in the course of our campaign in Lower Austria. Just so that no illusions are made: In the case of the many special commissions that have already been set up, which have been set up in recent years, et cetera, it is also evident that the staff will always be deducted for the new special commission. This is like a security theatre, which is carried on from station to station, depending on where the country election is taking place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister for the Interior does not comply with her core mission, namely to maintain public order, peace and security. And now I've been completely relaxed with this budget speech after reading the following: There must be no lack of money. ‘The executive receives the means it needs.’ So I'm all worried about the police. We'll get everything. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Well, you don't get everything!]] I'm afraid it'll be different: Service vehicles are deducted – equal to three from our service. It's a shame the woman's not there. Printer there is only one per floor. That's very pleasant when you're arrested when you've got the person sitting there and you're saying, Go, sir, please, sit down and I'll go over to the printer quickly! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] That's a huge thing that's really happening there – unlike what you say. And that's how it goes. [[Abg. New builder: Then the foot shackles are used!]] - Yes, that's a topic of its own. That is what I shall come to speak of at the second reading. Either the Minister of the Interior does not tell us the truth – that would not be the case for the first time; Subject Questioning – or the General Major and the Executive Officers in the National Police Commanders want to make themselves popular with those who can promote or stop their careers – that is the problem there, I say again and again. Yes, the Minister of the Interior is surrounded by top officials – I have noticed – who obviously do not report from day-to-day police, out of the necessity, but report something that is gladly heard. We know that somehow from the Imperial era, from history teaching. The second sentence in the second paragraph on page 19 may be understood as a threat – and these are all drivers, where traffic surveillance is announced to be even more intensive in protecting Austrians. – Please, that’s – how to say? It was here: Safety is guaranteed on the streets, there are also enough controls. Enough controls! – Please read the Minutes again: Enough controls, a police officer found out. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, I am afraid that you will be disappointed by the car driver, the frightened citizen and the equally faithful government servant, namely our Austrian police officers. And as an opposition politician, we will want something else, namely that this group will finally be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9948	Mr Delegate Dr. Zinggl is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e9969	Madam President. High house! Now we switch to cultural policy again and start with numbers. That is necessary, if only very briefly. We now have, we have to say, already a very opaque budget estimate. I don't like this new order, you can't really read something from it. But although this is so confusing and complicated, you can see a lot because of the ministry’s broadcasts, because we are not so stupid either. If we are told about the APA that the cultural budget is rising by €3.9 million, and then it will be listed later, which will increase everything, and the increases together make up €11 million, then – and I assume that this is correct, and as far as we have checked it, it is also true – the following conclusion: Although it has been increased by €4 million, it has also been properly resold. And that gives us to think and makes us quite nervous. And now comes the second point, that is the political assessment. I might join the Secretary of State, who has just told us that an important task of the budget is to support the weaker and, on the other hand, to limit excretion at the upper end. We have in Austria, we know, wealth inequalities: 10 percent have 50 percent of the assets. And what does it look like in culture? – We have quite different distributions, namely the distribution of the budgets, the subsidies. Few institutions – there are twelve – have two thirds of the budget. Many hundred divided up the rest. Now we can discuss this for a long time, but what I do not think is that those who already have enough can get even more. And that's what we've got again! We have that every time, I complain every time, and now, according to the ministry, it is € 4.5 million that the Bundestheater gets more – according to our calculations, it is at all 5 million, that is, €500 000 more. And as an edition, compliance with the evaluation proposals is imposed on the Bundestheaters, but the evaluation proposals provide for a savings potential of 13 million. So what's going on? The Bundestheater will receive 5 million additional, so that they can save € 13 million? – I really don't understand now. Maybe this could explain to us sometime. In my opinion, we now come to an instrument that is not pointless, which has now been introduced, namely the indication of targets for action. But what does our Federal Minister for Culture do about it? – We have a flattite, a single goal of effect: Anchoring art and culture in society. – That’s a little weak already, I would say. [[Abg. Oils: Deep!]] - I'm telling you, behind, I'm telling you. How, with what methods is this goal achieved? – It’s all the same as before, and then there are two additional things that we haven’t had so far, two exhibitions of Artothek, that is, the collections of the federal government, and, please, 500 more access to the newsletter of the Federal Ministry. - So, can you help out there? It's not really going deeper! That's super embarrassing. I believe that this is almost a mockery of this requirement to indicate targets of action, and I believe that it is very modest, without perspective and uninspired. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10006	Mr Huber is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10027	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! If you look at the agricultural budget very briefly, and if you look at the achievements of the last 50 years of the EIA agricultural policy, you can only say: Yesterday was the day of world nutrition, and what nobody has said is that, because of our good ÖVP policy today in Austria, of 20 bought breads, seems, wheat flours, cereal and oatmeal packs 14 samples are contaminated with glycosate. That's not what Gerhard Huber says, it's not the BZÖ, but that's what the magazine "ÖKO-TEST" says. These samples have all been drawn in Austria, and one can really calculate what this EIA policy means. Now we know that this glyphosate, this “roundup”, the most cancer - is the most harmful thing it has to do with the digestive tract. We all know that. But by this one sees who Mr. Berlakovich represents: It is only about the industry, it is only about Monsanto, about Raiffeisen – but not about agriculture and not about the Austrian population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What amazes me: The Minister of Health must be aware of all of this, but what does he do? - Nothing. Before the truth, the eyes are simply closed. But I already believe that in Austria it is our duty to provide healthy food for people and to maintain small-structured agriculture. That's our duty! But if one hears the Raiffeisen officials, then they can only call them here instead of finally going here and making sure that we change policy in the direction that we give farmers perspectives that we are making a modern agricultural policy – instead of 50 years of ÖVP concrete policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's a sin that happens here. Remember, Mr Grillitsch, when Mr Fischler preached in the 1990s: Let's make Austria a fine food shop in Europe! – But what did Mr Berlakovich do? You know that? – Imports and exports of glycosate from 100 000 kilograms per year to 440 000 kilograms more than quadruple! - It's supposed to be known to the population. It is too little to represent only Raiffeisen, Monsanto and the Agrara. A modern budget policy would look different from what the “curer” announces today under the title: ‘Farms are taxed more heavily’. – This is a “super” policy! Instead of seeing that we have framework conditions that ensure that we are competitive in Europe, that we tax farmers according to their incomes, you now immediately decide to raise a 20% tax rate for farmers and at the same time take away the entire agricultural diesel refund. – This is “right” politics. Dear ÖVP, I can only “gratulate” you! In January 2014, as we know, there will be a new main fixation of the unit value. What's going on? - That's gonna be a hit! The basic tax, everything is massively increased! – That's a real EIA policy. This will be a disaster for Austria's economic location, and in particular all workers, everyone who has generated and taxed income, must pay again. If the modern agricultural policy is, I do not know. But as far as the budget in general is concerned, I will now give you a brief example from Tyrol: With me last week was a 48-year-old man who says that in 1984 he went to Swarovski in Innsbruck as a 20-year-old. Mr. Federal Minister, in 1984, this gentleman earned 28 676 S net for 44 hours, with pay notes. He paid for the apartment 2 300 p. Today, in 2012 – only to show the result of the ÖVP policy on the basis of an example – the same man earns €1 622 net at Swarovski, and for the apartment he pays €803. This is ÖVP policy in Tyrol, because the framework still makes politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] And I believe that if you do not finally come here and make reforms, really implement reforms, then this ÖVP has little future. Today in the early days, we heard from the EU Subcommittee what the honourable Member has said: It is committed to the launch of criminal proceedings in EU countries with high levels of unemployment. – That is simply cruel what this federal government thinks! The last time a certain Mr Stalin has applied such methods, Mr. Cap, and I believe that if this policy is not terminated immediately, Austria will have such a big problem that it becomes unbearable. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wind Wood]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Debts as high as never before, a policy that does nothing but represent itself: That's too little! This can only be met with a quote from Einstein. Albert Einstein said: "Two things are infinite, the universe and the human stupidity, but with the universe I am not yet quite sure." Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10139	Mr Heinzl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10161	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's true: Austria has been better hit by the international economic crisis than most of its neighbours, and I believe that is also due to targeted investments in our infrastructure. And what we can be particularly proud of: In Austria, and will continue to be invested in work instead of unemployment. And it is also true that 160 000 jobs have been created in Austria since the height of the crisis, and I believe that this too is unique in Europe. The 2013 budget sets out the right future-setting measures for more jobs, more economic growth and more environmental protection with targeted investments in education, research and infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2013 around €2.91 billion is available for transport, innovation and technology, in particular to invest in and further modernise transport infrastructure. This is particularly true for the expansion of the environmentally friendly rail. In this respect, two thirds of the total investment is in the development and modernisation of the rail and about one third is in road development. But this also means that the shift from road to rail will continue. [[Call the SPÖ: Very good!]] According to the ÖBB Framework Plan 2013 to 2018, €12.7 billion will be invested in the expansion of infrastructure in Austria. And with this, ladies and gentlemen, not only are international axes being expanded, but also investments in the stock network are made. This means, for example, that by 2014, all slow down points in the core network will be permanently removed. Investments in transport infrastructure have a great economic advantage for Austria. Investments of one billion in infrastructure lead to the creation or safeguarding of 17 000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! The projects of the ÖBB infrastructure and ASFINAG permanently cover around 50 000 jobs each year through their construction projects. In the case of the per capita investments in rail infrastructure, Austria is only more closely behind the model country of Switzerland, but far ahead of Germany, France and also Italy. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The increase in road and rail transport safety is another key focus in the 2013 budget, and that is why the expansion of modern transport safety systems – keyword: Telematics – continued next year. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I'm firmly convinced: With these measures, Austria's infrastructure and thus the country is well equipped for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10194	Mr Kößl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10216	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In general, it is to be said on the 2013 budget that the present proposal can continue the successful path of Austria in the field of economics, the social sector and, of course, in the security field. Of course, the idea of saving is in the foreground, and it is also good that we continue our reform. It's quite, very important that we fix our state budget. We are not only guilty of this, but above all also our children and grandchildren, and, I believe, we are in a very, very good way that we will achieve the zero deficit in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, it is very important that we invest in the future – and I believe we are investing in the future exactly. We must strive to remain competitive, and it is important that we can guarantee our growth and employment in the future. It will also be very much done there. I believe that when initiatives are taken in research and development, when the University Billion 2013 is again striking, and when 100 million € are invested in thermal rehabilitation from the state, then the important impulse will be in this direction. In addition, of course, a lot of money is also used to secure our social state. This too is a very important factor when we think about the health system, about childcare, about the care sector. So it will invest a lot of money in the social field in the future and in itself in order to secure our social state accordingly. If we look at the budget in the security field, then, I believe, it becomes clear that security in Austria has and has always had a high priority, and security in Austria will be ensured with the available resources in the future. We have more than €120 million available this year, and next year additional €40 million will be added, so in 2013 more than €2.5 billion will be available to us in the security field, and I believe that this financial means will allow us to fight crime in all its manifestations – from burglary crime to cybercrime, from the use of asylum to, of course, to the abuse of tow. Next year, the € 5 million for early promotions in the integration area will also be available. So, in total, I think we're very well placed in the security area. The financial resources are available, and now it is said that these financial resources should also be used in a targeted manner. Mr Mayerhofer is not here right now. I don't know who wrote him this cabaret that he gave of himself here, but I'll ask him personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10267	Mrs Gartelgruber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10288	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr. Kößl, that wasn't a cabaret! It was rather the fairy tale hours of Mrs Finanzminister, whom we were allowed to listen yesterday. [[Abg. Kößl: He who wrote this has no idea of safety!]] – Please, stop now! We are here in Parliament and we are allowed to discuss and we can also express our opinion on this. I would like to return once again to Mr Schwentner and to Mr Wurm, who have now put Gender Budgeting so much in the foreground. Did you not notice that neither the spokesperson of the ÖVP nor the spokesperson of the BZÖ has lost a single word about it? – Maybe there's a slow sense of reason coming in, and they've seen that the whole thing is already a little exaggerated and overcrowded and we could put it off again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On one point, however, I have to give you the right, Mr Schwentner: The only thing I really do give you is the approach to drugs and to women's operations, because women and men have a different approach in the medical field. This is certainly what the Minister is calling for – but we do not need gender budgeting for that. [[Abg. Scheibner: Since when are we for gender budgeting?]] In yesterday's budget speech by Mrs Finanzminister, the subject of women has fallen exactly three times, including the intervention agencies for violence – against violence, of course! – but she brought it a little bit more lapidar. [[Calls: Against violence]] What I have missed and what we still do not have, although it was promised in the government programme, is the emergency home for forced married people. It has been promised to us forever, but it has not yet been established. In this respect, it would now be the highest railway, because I have heard that the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior had agreed there. But I have to say in the budget, whether women or men, the effects of the ESM and the sluggish inflation with which the Austrians have to live, for both parts, are equally massive and obvious. So it would really be the highest railway to do something faster because it concerns the population classes, the savers, the payees and also the pensioners – both women and men – and there would be something to do. To sum up, I only have more to say – and I do not need gender budgeting – with this budget, the Federal Government has already put at risk all our prosperity and our future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Switzerland]] I am missing the will for real and profound reforms in state structure, administration, health care, subsidies and pensions. That is how we will not be able to clean up our state budget. It is very high time that we really tackle this in order to achieve improvements – and I don't need gender budgeting for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10359	Mr Grünewald has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10382	Madam President. Federal Minister! I have the impression that the world of politics and ministries differs considerably from reality. If you listen to the rectors' conference, the current uniqueo, react to the tax plans, then there are miles in between! I might now read something very funny from the press: ‘The Karlheinz Dägenle (...) receives around 175 million. Euro more than (...) before. The share of the so-called university billions (...) – 250 million. ... – is already contained in it”. As in "175 million. More than EUR” 250 million are included? – I'm supposed to have a mathematician predicting that! It is thought that previous savings at non-university institutes must lead to this. Rector Engl says there's a million shorts missing. The rectors say they now need at least €300 million to maintain the status quo. Your successor, when proclaiming the university billions, said that this will not be enough at Weitem. [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Däderle]] TU is already shortening the funding to the teaching staff. The Medizin-Uni Wien had to be loaned €8 million, but it has to pay back. If she pays her back, she'll miss 8 million €, if not more. TU Graz solidaritys itself with TU Wien. Offensives, which have been rewritten since Loipersdorf, are sold as “fresh money”. The delicate thing is that it is politically suggested: Now there's money! The university can profile, focus – on and for itself euphemistic descriptions of “close” and “shrink healthy”. And if you get a billion, miracles will happen. – The rectors say these miracles cannot be achieved by these means! And now I come to speak to the medicine briefly: If the ministry is not to be called “Ministry of Science and Research with the exception of Medicine”, one will have to take care of it. The country of Tyrol is now paying € 145 million for a process which the Ministry has also contributed to due to too little paid-out clinical benefits. Why does a head of state of Upper Austria want a medical union? – Because the federal government pays it 50 percent of the staff, 50 percent of the renovation costs, 50 percent of the new buildings and 30 to 40 percent of the major equipment costs! He's not stupid. [[Abg. Grossruck: No, that's another reason!]] - No, it is! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] And what do you say? How should research be ensured at maximum working hours of 72 hours if medical universities already save Journal services? Faith You really think you're going to the lab for a journal service or a service ranging from Saturday morning to Monday morning? - That won't happen! It is good to conclude agreements with Albania. One will have to conclude agreements with the countries, for I have told Rector Lochs that if it goes so far as to do all that the Land-Holding and the Land order him to do – not for nothing he was her favorite candidate – he can move the rectorate to the Bergisel Museum, but being in the Bergisel Museum is not a point of a scientific location. So you see how the country of Tyrol pumpes millions into a private medical union ten kilometers from Innsbruck, where you can even start a medical study – ten kilometers from Innsbruck! There's suddenly money for that!Unknown term type: "%s".? So I think you have to work there, because the medical union needs this money, but the allocation is more than questionable.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10435	The next speaker was Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10456	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The “Salzburger Nachrichten” titles today in a comment: ‘The 2013 budget as a deceptive idyll’. – That’s absolutely true. This budget is unambitionated, there are many flakes in it, many declarations of intent, and it basically continues to write the budget of last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] While it is true – the Minister of Finance always mentions it – that the interest we pay for our public debt is falling, these interest rates still account for €6.5 billion. 6,5 billion €, that is exactly the family budget, ladies and gentlemen – a family budget, where we have written as a note, it is expressly excluded from the stabilisation measures this time, but I can easily expressly exclude something if I have already ordered a proper savings package to the families in the year before by shortening the family aid, by removing the 13th. Family aid, by no value adjustments of family allowances in recent years, and FLAF has also not been reformed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] In this budget it becomes quite clear: The standstill signaled by the government day after day continues in this budget and shows itself in it. The major reforms will not be addressed. The experts – the IHS chief, the Wifo Chefin, the Court of Auditors have been criticizing this for a long time. Health reforms are announced, there is no agreement yet. In the field of education it is said that the budget for education and education will be increased, and yes, what we have decided here will continue to be financed – I mean, that is the minimum! – but no mention of a reform of teacher service law, no mention of a reform of school administration. Or the tax system: Mrs Finanzminister did not mention with a word the tax system, which is becoming more and more burdened on citizens. We currently have a tax rate of 43 percent. Because Mr Schittenhelm has once again said out here how much the ÖVP wants the taxes to be reduced and simplified: Do it at last! Don't cancel constantly, and take as an occasion the BZÖ model, our model we have introduced! And don't always say you can't do that! I sometimes have the suspicion that you are now saying that you cannot implement it, but then before the election will go out with a similar demand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] The very large area is the pension, and here you say in this budget, the pension system will be secured in a sustainable way. – It is not possible to secure the pension system with what you do – on individual screws – in a sustainable way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is not enough to raise the maximum contribution base. It is not enough to reform the disability pension – and we do not yet know what the reform looks like; it is only announced. It is not enough if the age limits are increased at early retirement or if access to the hacker scheme is made more difficult. Pension costs continue to explode, even in this budget, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. 18 billion €, that's a quarter of the budget expenditure – and you don't hear the alarm bells that you finally have to do something concrete!Unknown term type: "%s".? I really demand more honesty, less promises, and not saving in the wrong place, and above all, that new ideas – if they exist – not constantly be blocked and say that they are not. Two years ago, we of the BZÖ presented a new model: a fair, equal system for all, with a very flexible access to the pension, regardless of the age – everyone should be free to choose for themselves – with a pension account that really shows what you have paid and how the pension will look like at what height. We have also said again and again: Let's finally get rid of these many special privileges! Let's get rid of the special regulations! Just this week – yesterday or yesterday – the Court of Auditors has again shown in its report what really is going on in the pensions of social security institutions. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, it is unsustainable and unreasonable that we still have special arrangements for tens of thousands of people here in Austria – pension schemes, social security, the National Bank, the municipality of Vienna, various countries that have not adapted them – and over a million people who have small and medium-sized pensions every year have real losses, which each year have to worry about whether they get 1 percent, 1.8%, or perhaps a little more, 2.2 percent. – This is not allowed in the future. That's unsocial, that's unfair, and on the other hand, let's be careful. Especially now that inflation has accounted for 2.7 percent in September – and if you calculate the fuels, 4.3 percent – you have to do something about it. Create You can therefore remove these privileges, or see if you can at least temporarily increase these so-called security contributions! I don't understand that someone who gets such a high pension, who still receives a discharge after the ASVG and an official's pension, pays a pension contribution of 5 or 6 percent. He doesn't feel that! As a transitional measure, I therefore call for these solidarity contributions to be raised in a truly blatant way. I also expect from the two self-proclaimed pensioners – from President Khol and President Blecha, who last year agreed to a savings package for the elderly, that they will receive only 1 per cent this year – that they are at last committed to abolishing these privileges. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If, of course, you are a user of an old regulation, a very high political board, then you are going to be hard on it. But if you intend to work for the general public, for the population and for the elderly, you cannot measure by two measures; then you must also show all these abuses and try to eliminate them accordingly. We from BZÖ say: Whoever has worked, who has provided benefits through work – for himself and for society – he is entitled to a safe and adequate pension. And this is true today, and so is the case in the United Kingdom. Future for the young generation, because we must think of these as well as of today's pensioners. Therefore, I believe that this budget – only on the example of pensions – is a deceptive budget. They continue to scatter sand into the eyes of the population, you convey that you have everything firmly under control, but I tell you: At best you have it under control until the National Council election, and then the population will decide what it thinks of ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10577	Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, I would like to point out that you only have 14 minutes of speaking time. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] - Just as a hint, so nothing happens. The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10608	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary remark on Mrs Gartellehner – Please apologize: [[Abg. Singer: Gartelgruber!]] Cutler: I think that making distribution justice visible, the distribution of financial resources, the visibility of money flows, that is, gender budgeting, has nothing to do with irration, but is a piece of justice and is a piece of reason. For example, family policy becomes equally visible on the basis of the budget – family policy, which is necessary and important for us Social Democrats. Mrs Haubner, speaking on your comments on pension insurance and future prospects: I think our pensions, the pensions of the future, are assured by the fact that people have work that people have income, can pay their contributions, provide tax benefits. This ensures the pension system – our solidarity pension system. Another comment, Mrs Haubner: If you are always talking about the service providers in our society, then we also need to talk about what performance is, how performance is evaluated and who is the service providers, because it cannot be that people with lower incomes are not called service providers and thus have disadvantages in the pension. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy benefits are necessary. The payments of the family compensation fund will amount to around €6,5 billion in 2013. I think that's a sum that can be seen. I would like to stress two main priorities from this budget: the continuation of support for countries in the development of childcare facilities for those under three years of age with €15 million and the extension of full-day childcare with €80 million. Another point in the budget is, for example, the maintenance advances. I think that we need a lot of negotiation and discussion, in order to ensure these maintenance advances and make them fairer. A point in family policy is a measure that has led to an increase in father participation, namely the income-dependent childcare allowance. We have a wealth of services for the Austrian families, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, there is also a high priority for family support from which every child benefits. I think that we have a wealth of fiscal measures that do not come to the families – and this has been demonstrated in many opinions and analyses too. That is why it is superior to take up the proposal of our women's minister, under the foreign currency: it is fairer, fairer and easier – so that these controls can reach out to those people who live with children, and the children also benefit from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10660	Mr Gahr has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10682	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In times where there is much going on around the world, there is uncertainty at many venues, and crises accompany us, there is a need for a stable financial and economic policy. With the 2013 budget we get answers, but we also have huge challenges to overcome. The debate shows that there are different positions and opinions, but for me it is very important that the state saves and reforms that the state invests specifically and boosts economic growth, but that the state also tries – and that is an absolute necessity – to take the path towards zero deficit by 2016. Austria has spent too much over many years. We save more than 4,000 posts in the public sector by 2016, except for teachers, executives and the financial police. There is a zero wage round in the public service, but there are also structural measures in many areas, and a solidarity contribution of top earners is also required. The state also saves together with the countries. Especially in the field of health, but also in the field of administration, countries and unions are required, and the state must, of course, also take the right measures in the case of pensions. It is about starting offensives in the future, investing more money in certain areas: universities, science and research, schools and education, but also in the field of care. Together with the countries, the care fund is being implemented in order to address the challenges that are even greater in terms of care. However, it is also about impulses for families, young entrepreneurs and the area of thermal rehabilitation. We also establish new rules for the ministries. There is more flexibility in the budget pots within the ministries. There are global budgets that provide scope for action. However, there are also very clear targets of impact, how the money is used, whether measures that are imposed are also taken. As Vice-President of the VP, I can mention that the Court of Auditors also sparingly manages, there is no increase in posts, but a slight decrease, although there are additional audit and control tasks. From my point of view, the 2013 budget is about three things: clarity, reliability and honesty – clarity, maximum transparency and budget implementation overview; Reliability to keep promises. Let us take a look at our borders on countries such as Greece, where pensions, education in existing systems are involved, or Italy, where there are restrictive measures in the budget, where the substance is really accessed. – I think we should also have a certain look at the reality that we in Austria do not have to intervene in existing social benefits or pension systems, but that we can serve a lot in Austria, but still have to save there and there. And honesty, I believe, also belongs to this: that we tell people where we save and how we use the money. Therefore: Clearness, reliability, honesty in the 2013 budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10737	Mrs Kitzmüller has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10758	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! If we look at the budget, we read the following: “The budget serves to secure our country’s future. In doing so, the promotion of families is of particular importance.” Now let's look at what's going to happen. The Family Allowance Fund is expected to have a surplus in 2013 and thus the debt of the Fund is to be gradually repaid. However, when we look at the figures, we reached a debt of €3.82 billion in the FLAF, in the family compensation fund. – Well, how long will it take to repay these debts? According to family ministers, these debts are to be repaid sometime in 2018. – And that should be the future of our families?- Oh, my God! I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this budget is an increase in the family size of the budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In all newspapers and reports, it is possible to read how inflation affects the weekly purchases of a family. At fuel we have an increase of 9.3 percent, for clothing and shoes plus 17.4 percent. - And it's supposed to relieve the families?- Oh, my God! In fact, in Austria we have an inflation rate of 4 percent. The families are not thought of with more money, on the contrary, the families are being thrown back, the families are less benefited than ever before for the families. Then it says here that it will work “step by step. ” – With us in Austria, we say cizerly, and the families do not deserve to be repaired in a bit. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] It can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need a change of direction here, a change in the trend in family taxation. We need a fair tax system for the families that relieves the families, according to our free family relief model, with which we are fair and not too tightly taxing the families, as it is currently the option in the tax system. We want a per capita tax where families are actually free to shape their family life: whether the mother remains at home and the children are raised or whether she is going to work. Nor do we want a regulation that tells us who will care for the children and how long we are allowed to care for the children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be freed from our families how long someone is caring for the children, and it must be possible for them from the tax and from the financial perspective to shape the family life in the way it meets their needs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, is not a word in this budget; even for the families, nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10840	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10861	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, something about this rather bizarre way to lead the debate around the budget: I think I pointed out last year that the way in which we debate the budget somehow meets its limits. One is talking about family policy – Mrs Kitzmüller, I would also like to reply to your comments, but my time is limited, as is yours; if I say something about your contribution now, I can't talk about my own topic anymore. The three members of the government sitting here can almost lead you because they obviously have to sit here criminally, so that we somehow have the impression that the Federal Government is attending parliamentary deliberations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They don't talk – I understand that too, they are also different topics. [[Call:]] – Well, three hours ago, I mean, there are still other issues being debated. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I would suggest that we should really seriously discuss whether the debate – if it should and must be held at a first reading – should not be conducted seriously, and that makes sense to me, too. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, BZÖ representatives and Dr. Jarolim and Zanger.]] It's not possible that we discuss across the vegetable garden. I would very much like to be able to take a little more time for individual chapters, because no matter what view someone represents, there is only a small spot left on a chapter. There are two or three digits that can be taken out, and that's what it was. So if the members of the government were to have something of it, then I would be in favour of really considering it, and we probably would have more of such a debate than simply to celebrate a day – apologies, that also concerns me. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - Excuse me, but that had to be said once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] Second point, quite specifically – I also have to say something about the chapters –: I'm sorry, but I don't think the outlines that are now being presented have been successful. There's some all-world formulations in there. That was to be expected. It will then become a little more concrete in terms of objectives and measures. In the chapter Work and Social Affairs, some of these objectives and guidelines are in conflict. There is the guide: “We ensure that the state pension system is safeguarded and therefore that the standard of living is maintained in old age.” I would already think a lot of things about maintaining the standard of living. But I'm saving this because I don't have enough time to talk. I come to the Mission Work: "We pursue active labour market policies to prevent and eliminate unemployment". As a success date or measure, it is mentioned in an area – and this is not surprising given the economic prospects – that unemployment in 2013 should amount to 7.4 percent instead of 7.1 percent in 2011. This is an increase in unemployment. No question, we have difficult economic conditions. A debate would be useful – and it is not just leading to this chapter –: What do we need to do to improve the economic situation? – Here you will come back to what Mr Rossmann mentioned at the beginning. As long as we – and I mean not only Austria, but all the European states – are operating austerity policy, it will become quite difficult with the economic recovery, not only for 2013, but probably also for 2014. You all know this, and we should also take this into account when drawing up appropriate guidelines and measures. So I can only say: If it really is the goal of maintaining the pension system, then we will have difficulties if we as a measure sell a lower increase in unemployment as a success. A final point: 410 000 funding will be available in 2013. We had them before: In 2009, there were about 400,000 grants. In order to reduce unemployment, the purely quantitative increase has not contributed much, since we also need to look at quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10944	Mr Dr Spadiut has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e10965	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The Minister for Finance said yesterday in her budget speech: “The health sector is geared towards ensuring a comprehensive, quality-secured health care for our people,” – well, I suppose, of course – “which is financed by social security contributions and (...) tax subsidies.” – For this, €926 million is available in 2013. Health care and prevention should play an essential role in this. This includes prevention objectives such as the implementation of the ten framework health objectives, mother and child health, promotion of healthy nutrition in schools, monitoring of the vaccination behaviour of the Austrian population, suicide prevention, implementation of the results of the developed child health strategy, development of a national cancer programme, introduction of a Breast cancer early detection program, improvement of psychosocial pregnancy care, development of a national drug addiction strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! These are very ambitious targets, but how should this work if the funds provided for them are reduced by €3.3 million compared with 2011? For hospital financing, € 607 million is estimated. There is nothing to be seen from the hospital reform which the Minister has so much announced. Minister Stöger has clearly been drawn over the table by the Land Princes. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As Mrs Minister said, health insurance is an essential part of health care. – That’s right, but it’s also a very cost-intensive role. It is said that the consolidation course of health insurance companies will continue. For 2013 a cost reduction volume of € 675 million was expected. But this cost reduction is not to be done by administrative reform – no! We have been calling for this administrative reform for four years. For four years, we have called for the merger of 22 social security funds. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No, there will continue to be €700 094 440 for the administration, including 117 service weights, 175 district offices and €17 000 for daily service trips. In addition, chief offices are financed by €10 738 000 annually. The reduction of costs is seen by health insurance providers elsewhere, namely in the following areas: in the established area in the field of medical assistance and the institutes, in the medicinal sector, in transport costs, in the case of healing and aid and in physiotherapy. That means in the clear text: It is not in the administration, but in the patient. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For the implementation of these savings, which will result in massive restrictions on patient care, the health insurance funds will then be rewarded with €40 million from the health insurance fund. Minister! This procedure is unacceptable to us, and it can even be described as disgraceful. We will never give our consent to this process.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11038	Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11060	Minister! Mr State Secretary! Madam President. A few short words. Mr Oellinger can only be given the right thing. This herb-and-Rüben discussion is completely inconvenient, and I am glad that our Secretary of State has drawn up a concept for this. We will implement this so that in the future we will simply discuss topics in an orderly form, so that we can say that this is really a subject discourse over different areas. To this end, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Oellinger, for this proposal, with or without applause. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and Greens.]] On the matter itself: What the judicial system is about, there is, of course, a change in staff, there are more staff. There are more staff for very important fishing activities, especially in the field of parole aid. However, I also have to say that there is always the discussion about the fact that NEWSTART has a very important position on the question of resocialisation. One should not save there, but each cent used in this field actually serves to ensure that: progress towards resocialisation and thus reduce the risk of relapse. That's what we always see in corresponding studies. Mr Katzian, too, is always behind it and shows how important this institution is. I should like to ask the Minister to support it accordingly. I am also pleased that the Federal Minister for Finance has agreed that there should be more capital losses and a deterioration in the area of organised crime. We've been calling for that for several years. This is a source of revenue that is almost obvious. By slightly improving the respective units in the prosecutor's office and the police, you can really tap into money sources and, of course, fight crime. So there are some important, good projects. Ladies and gentlemen! The procedural regulation has arrived very well. We have seen in the Committee of Inquiry the importance and importance of this innovation, which we have discussed more or less over three or four years, because not all of them have been. This has come to an end, and I think we have a lot of good ideas as to how we can further develop justice. In that sense, I look forward to the discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11105	One second, the technology needs to be updated. Next, Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11129	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I was lucky that my name was still on the computer! First of all, I would like to say that I fully share the feeling that Mr Öllinger and Mr Jarolim have articulated here. I also believe that we should have a different form of discussion, with the capitular treatment at the second reading anyway. On the other hand, there are chapters – for example, I am now going to talk about development cooperation – which are quite cross-cutting. Most of the funds for development cooperation are allocated to the Ministry of Finance, a good part is allocated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where development cooperation is primarily the subject. The most gratifying aspect of the foreign ministry's budget is that there will be the planned reduction of € 6.6 million in 2013 for bilateral development cooperation, but that the same level as in 2012 will continue to exist. It is not just bilateral development cooperation, however, where this work works and takes place. There are many other areas. It is true, for example, that we only recently, just a few months ago, for East Africa's aid, we have added €5 million. We have increased at the international financial institutions and in the grants to the European Union for development cooperation. For example, we make € 270 million annually available in the European Union. As a whole, I believe that there is some rethinking about the need and meaning of development cooperation. However, it is also necessary for the increases we have in other areas to be made. In addition, the European Commission will continue its work in the field of bilateral development cooperation. I hope and I am confident that this will succeed in the next few years. However, I would also like to deposit that it depends not only on quantity, but also on quality as well. In this context, it is gratifying that, for example, the OECD recently referred to us as an example in terms of the high quality of the projects. This too must be said, and this is a good testimony, above all, to the ADA, to our bilateral development agency. I have mentioned earlier that a good part of the funds for development cooperation goes to the European Union. In this context, one may also need to see a basic principle of the European Union, which means that one simply helps weaker ones – both inside and outside. The EU has the principle of helping weaker regions, weaker population groups to support them accordingly. I believe that this is one of the factors why the EU has received the Nobel Peace Prize, why we have peace and prosperity in this Europe. That is why I also believe that this model is not wrongfully seen by many other countries as a model of success, and that many other countries see great hope for the European Union. In this context, I simply believe that we – Austria and Europe – must continue to maintain our efforts within and outside Europe in this context – peace, prosperity, prosperity and prosperity. The funds in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are a prerequisite for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11185	Mr Zanger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11206	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In fact, I wanted to deal with my chapter of control at first reading, but when reading the speech we gave yesterday, I came across a sentence or a section that deserves special relief. It's as beautiful as the title: ‘The word spoken applies.’ And then: “The high social standard also remains: Family policy benefits are expressly excluded from the latest stabilisation package.’ Well, really a great achievement of this government! After our families were allowed to accept a €3.4 billion tax package in 2008, they will not be taxed any more. That's really an amazing performance. But it's gonna be even better. After all the burden, it is still necessary to take into account that many family policy benefits, but also other social benefits, have not been increased for many years. For example, there are the following figures: the study aid, which has been increased only once since 1999, has a real loss of minus 18 percent; in the case of childcare allowance which has not been increased since 2002, a real loss of minus 22 percent; in the case of family aid, not increased since 2000, the legendary sum of minus 28 percent. The care allowance for our needy people has been increased only three times since 1993 – minus 25 percent. Our pensioners are allowed to find themselves with an increase of 1 percent below inflation this year. It is a great achievement of this federal government for all those people who serve this state who put their lives in the service of this state, who pay their taxes very well and thus ensure that the state's structure is preserved – and the Minister of Finance can send her billions to Brussels or elsewhere. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But all of this doesn't make sense to the barrel yet. It's gonna be even better. I read the allocations in the bank yesterday, and I notice a government template: ‘Agreement between the Federal Government and the countries referred to in Article 15a B-VG on an increase in selected maximum cost rates of the type. 9 of the Basic Supply Agreement’ – that is to say, increasing the total number of benefits to the asylum seekers. This will soon be decided here in Parliament. I look at it more precisely, it looks like this: for accommodation and food in an organized accommodation per person per day – increase 12 per cent; for food for individual accommodation per person and month for adults – increase 11.1 per cent; for minors – increase 12.5 per cent; for rent for individual accommodation per month for one person and for families – increase 9.1 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen! Our pensioners are found at 1 percent below the inflation rate, i.e. almost 1.5 percent. The asylum seekers are granted an increase of around 12 percent. - Yes, where are we? If this is not the outcome of injustice in this country, I don't know what anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing I guarantee you: We will ensure that the population does not forget this until the election day. I can assure you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11272	Now comes Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11317	Madam President. Mr. Minister and Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The topic of disabled people: How much are they worth to us?Unknown term type: "%s".? – Questionnaires and question marks. You may remember my speech yesterday. The various ministers are supposed to take responsibility. Mrs. Colleague! Perhaps you remember how Minister Hundstorfer answered me: But, of course, the NAP is visible to all. On the homepage he is on view. Please don't worry, it's all right. I didn't mean that either. Concrete: What did I mean? - They all got these issues. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Of course, that's not all. It's a huge pile. You know that. What do I expect? – Each department should specify very precisely the objectives, measures in the budget. You might be expecting that. Have you seen the issue yet? – For example, about health – is there something inside? - No, I didn't find anything! [[the speaker shows the respective booklet]] Topic Youth – Is There Something inside? - Nothing! Transport and innovation? - Nothing! Outwards? - Nothing! Teaching? - Nothing! These are just a few examples. I believe that every department, every minister, should take responsibility and clearly state what measures are envisaged, what budgeting is planned and when the objectives are to be achieved. These are my expectations. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In other words, there must be real awareness in the ministries that people with disabilities must be taken into account in the measures. The Global Budget already includes some measures, such as the People's Procurement, the Justice – with a sentence – and the Federal Chancellery. That's all, not anymore! Now on the subject of work – unfortunately, Mr. Hundstorfer is not here –: A number of measures have been taken on the subject of work, for example the reduction of the number of unemployed people. That's good, but there's nothing there about disabled people. There is something about people with disabilities in the social issue. Why? - That means we're already in the disabled's corner. That means it's not an inclusion. The reduction in the unemployment rate is 0.5 percent. What does that mean? – This is really not very demanding. The National Action Plan – and that is something strange – says: Development of the National Action Plan. What does that mean? The NAP was created in 2012. What are the measures for the next years, for example in 2013? – The Social Ministry has made the plans with the 2012 measures, but in what year will they be implemented? Please, who can tell me when, in what year? - I don't know. Second question: Where is the precise budgeting for the measures planned for 2013? - There's nothing in there! I bring you two examples: Federal schools. The removal of barriers is planned for the years 2013 and 2014, where is the budgeting for it? - I don't see anything! Or relevant vocational training in connection with accessibility, I mean, for example, architects who are to learn the necessary concerning accessibility. Where's that called? - Nowhere. I ask you all: Are disabled people really worth something to us? I expect these things to be mentioned in the booklets, because, unfortunately, that's far too little for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11435	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11456	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, given the short speaking time of the BZÖ: It has today appeared in the daily newspapers a graphic that shows very nicely where the real problems are in the budget. [[The speaker shows a newspaper section]] On the basis of a gross monthly salary of €3500, it was calculated where the tax money flows and what it is used for. What are the biggest budget chunks? The largest budget blocks, where you pay the most, are the countries and municipalities with 22.6 percent. This shows that we can no longer afford these bloated structures, which we have in this area, and that the financial compensation in the current form – that is my opinion – is not effective. [[Abg. Grossruck: This is the financial compensation!]] And I wonder why federal politicians are constantly being held hostage by some national leaders. I am really in favour of disposing of the countries in many areas – because the Minister of Education is here, for example, in the field of education. The BZÖ is for the fact that the school competence is exclusively federal. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] – And this is just an example of many. Another large fraction of 8.3 percent is the interest for government debt, and the third large fractions are the pensions. These are the two other areas that make the budget difficult. A total of € 6.5 billion for interest payments is not a cardboard stalk at a tax and tax rate of 43.1 percent and a total debt burden of € 245 billion. These are huge sums. This means that these three areas – the division of competence between the federal, state and local authorities, interest payments for debt and, above all, the pension system – must be addressed. And with these figures it is also contradicted – which shows that what the red and black government is trying to do to us is not true – that any banks from the south are responsible for the entire budget miscarriage. That's a complete holler. We have a report of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, which says black and white that, for example, the need for a nationalisation of local credit would not have been necessary. [[The speaker shows]] Today, we will also discuss the setting up of an investigation committee to examine these bank statements – ÖVAG, municipal credit and Hypo Alpe-Adria. And if this investigation committee is set up, it will become apparent that not only was the emergency nationalization of the municipal credit very questionable and is also the one of the Hypo Alpe-Adria and that, for example, the Lord behind me on the government bank, Mr. Finanz State Secretary, who would have to appear as a person, would need massive information, because you already have to ask the question, Mr. Schieder, why at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer... – Mr. Schieder, I am speaking now! [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrary]] [[New interim remark by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] Be a little better, now I'm talking, you've already spoken! So we have to ask the question why Mr Schieder and Mr Pröll have taken over and nationalized the economy of a German bank at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer, namely the BayernLB, who was the owner of the hypo. Why is the Austrian taxpayer to pay for the mismanagement of a German bank? I would have liked to answer this question, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11533	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11556	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget is, as it were, an attempt to continue consolidation and, on the other hand, to adopt offensive measures. But, Mr Petzner, in one, I think we agree: The scope for offensive measures would be even greater if we called them – what did you call them? – Banks in the south would not have, because we would simply have more opportunities to invest in important future areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] [[Abg. Singer: What about the municipal credit? Why don't you ask the Minister back there?]] I don't know why you're so upset. Look into the mirror and calm down a little bit, otherwise I have to worry about you! [[Abg. Neubauer: Why do you get so upset at the hypo?]] [[Abg. Petzner: What kind of word choice is that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The question at a budget is: Adjust the framework conditions adopted for 2013 and what to do if the economy stagnates or even worsens the economic situation compared to the current situation? The question is: How are we prepared, or are we, if the situation gets worse, able to actually take money in order to finance, for example, economic packages and more? I have today met a delegation of works councils here in the house, and the information we have from the establishments is not just good. It's different. There are companies in industry where we can assume that the order situation is appropriate or that we have a stagnation, but there are also companies, especially those that produce very strong for the South European market, where there are massive declines and now the discussion on short-term work has started. Members who are employed there tremble at their jobs. From this it can be concluded that the path that has been taken in Europe is to save half the continent dead, with all the consequences that have now arisen in connection with economic growth and employment, which is wrong. There is now prominent support for this statement. At the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund last Saturday in Tokyo, there has been a scientific debacle for those who glorify the overall savings policy. The economists of the IMF – traditionally the cradle of a hard savings course – have carried out a surprising turn. For the horror of all hardliners, the IMF noted that the policy of austerity has failed all over the line, not only morally, but above all economically. The study simply says that austerity is unlikely to achieve its goal of reducing debt within a reasonable period of time and that what is otherwise done with this process and policy is much worse. Therefore, the only consequence can be to get rid of it. And if there is now also a confirmation by the IMF economists, it is clear: We must try to make even more efforts at European level towards growth and employment and thus create scope for us to invest, if there is a negative economic development, in economic development programmes and measures to ensure employment in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11625	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11646	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria and Europe have now experienced crisis management for four years as a result of the financial crisis, and I believe that Austria has experienced this crisis well – also thanks to three ÖVP finance ministers in these years, especially our Minister of Finance Maria Fekter. Austria has stable finances, and the economic location could be secured. This was important and necessary because we face very big challenges. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: And the SPÖ federal chancellors don't you say anything?- Oh, my God!]] The biggest challenge will be that in the future people have work, that they have an income and that the purchasing power is right. It is therefore also important to have stable finances. We actually have a demographic explosion: too few boys and people who are healthy and are getting older. – How do we solve this problem? How can we secure pensions? Who can pay for that? [[Call the BZÖ: That's it!]] We are also facing major challenges when it comes to creating food safety in the age of raw material shortages, resource shortages, food sovereignty in Europe and worldwide. Another major challenge – including a global challenge – is climate change, ladies and gentlemen! That is why it is so important to have stable finances in the national states and in Europe. The path we have taken in Austria over the last ten years – with the finance ministers, economic ministers, agricultural ministers – has led us to have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe. 4.4 percent! With this budget of our Minister of Finance, a sustainable guarantee of pensions has been achieved. The reforms are effective. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Is this an ÖVP government alone?]] We thank God for an approach – a careful approach – to the actual retirement age. These topics are being discussed, awareness-building is progressing. We are now talking – also a success of Maria Fekter – across Europe about a financial transaction tax. Many countries are already ready to think about a financial transaction tax. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Oh, that's it! Look here!]] We also need a speculation tax when it comes to speculating on agricultural raw materials. This too is an essential measure we need to discuss. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Yes, that's true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about food safety and food sovereignty, this is not just a question of agriculture when it comes to ensuring the common agricultural policy and the basis for financing this common agricultural policy in the future. Last Thursday we held a very interesting discussion with the President of the European Parliament Schulz – a Social Democratic Party. And I would also wish you all more often, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: Do not make class struggle on the back of the farmers! Finally, say that farmers need solidarity when it comes to being able to do what they want, what consumers want! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Consumers want food safety, quality, regionality and freshness. This is the central challenge. As far as climate change is concerned, we are well on the road to renewable energy in Austria. It is not only about raw materials from agriculture, but also about the power of the sun, the sun's rays that hit our heads when it comes to the environment, the reduction of CO2 emissions. Renewable energy sources are CO2-neutral. However, it is also about being independent in the energy supply to experience energy autarchy. I know that's a vision, but we should be trying to achieve this goal every day. I believe that the energy production from biomass in future energy production will be a trump axis. In times like this, it is important to be in solidarity with those who offer what you want, and those are the farmers in Austria in particular – and I ask you for this solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11790	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11811	Mr President. High house! I am allowed to return briefly to the statements made by Federal Chancellor Faymann, who correctly noted that Japan has a 210 percent debt in relation to GDP, but whose conclusions were wrong, because Japan is paying only 1.6 percent of taxes, and so all that he has continued is simply wrong and wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would recommend to our Federal Chancellor to visit his friends, the Bilderbergers, as he himself says on a parliamentary request, to find out more about it – they know for sure – and not to travel to too far countries, because there he seems to be a bit disorientated. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] To the budget: Our Minister of Finance Maria Fekter – which has been sounding since yesterday, since the “time in Figure 2”, and even today constantly out of the media – does not want her budget to be spoken badly. You don't have to, because official and objective figures show that even more clearly than any comment: On the one hand, we currently have the highest tax rate in Austria, but also the highest debt level, and the Maastricht criteria for the deficit have not been reached either. Something that Mrs. Maria Fekter says all the time and actually absolutely doesn't fit: She'd like to be the taxpayer's lawyer. – I would recommend that you deal with this profession more cautiously, otherwise it might be that Stan- the representative of the lawyers contact her, because if lawyers represent their clients in such a bad way as Maria Fekter's Austrian citizens, then there may very well be an admonition or similar. What Maria Fekter tells the Austrians, no, is not decreed, but what she does not find appropriate measures is the price increase – the most brutal tax that exists at all. The cost of clothing rose by 17.4 percent, that for meat by 6.3 percent, for coffee by 7.6 percent. How should our families, our single parents, cope with life? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Apart from that, we have already heard of the price increase in the field of mineral oil tax. Yesterday the Wifo budget expert Schratzenstaller was in the “Time in Figure 2” and she too has left almost nothing good in the current budget draft. The only positive is the reform of household law, but this success must be attributed more to the civil service than to Maria Fekter. Maria Fekter said in her last budget speech that the budget is for her the government programme cast into figures. – If, now, their financial policy looks such and has been cast into figures, you have to say: It is a very careful, very hesitant EU-related policy and a very EU-wide budget. This is something that a representative of the people absolutely does not face well.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11881	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11902	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am addressing a completely different subject, which has not yet been discussed today, on the subject of foreign, commemorative, social and peace services. Today, foreign services celebrate their 20th anniversary. And for a year – and you all know this – about 120 young men have performed a social service in Uganda, a peace service in China, or a memorial service against forgetting the atrocities of National Socialism in London, Amsterdam or America. And these must always be kept as ambassadors of Austria: for photos, for documents, for thanksgivings abroad and domestically, and all of this in the name of the Ministry of the Interior. At the same time, the financing of these foreign services is reduced. Today, it was cut by 10 percent, i.e. €8,100 per year per memorial abroad, in a city like London, in a city like Jerusalem, that is, in cities where the cost of living is already higher. It is an amount that must include insurance, rent, public transport, arrival, departure, everything. That is to say, the memorial servants cannot afford to be memorial servants anymore because of the amount they receive from the Ministry of the Interior, and must either go on a snoring tour and ask for support or take advantage of private funds, savings in order to provide such an important service for Austria and thus ensure a representative of Austria. Werner Faymann left after the protests that took place in March of this year by the Greens and the organizations, knowing that the memorialists I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. That was a promise. Werner Faymann continues to be verbal. There are no additional payments for 2012. And now it comes: For 2013, the civilian service budget will be reduced by €2 million. And then I wonder, How can these important services ever be truly secure for existence? How can memorial, social or peace servants continue to be able to carry out such an important service in the name of Austria? And that's exactly why it's time to get these foreign services out of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior's budget and say: Let us put these commemorative services, these foreign services in a legal framework. Let us make them accessible to women and men equally and financially at least €11 000, if not €12 000 a year. Let us restructure these, and above all, let us simply perceive the civil service situation as it is: Commemorative, foreign servants cannot afford to do their work. That is why a clear legal regime at another level is required to make it independent of the Ministry of the Interior and above all its arbitrariness. It is time to reorganise the civil service system. This opportunity exists with the popular survey. It's time to get rid of the military duty. Finally, let the commemorative services fall into a legal framework, which really secures them!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11959	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e11981	High house! People are horrendous and angry, the tax policy of the ÖVP is dog-wrong and a real disaster. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrians demand a new tax model. We from BZÖ with Josef Bucher have the solution. We demand an immediate tax reduction and fair taxes for all. Only through fair taxes do people have more money for daily life again. This failed federal government is well advised to adopt the BZÖ model. [[Abg. Donate: Yes, bravo!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This budget sets the wrong impulse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] Our debts explode. Above all, the ÖVP as the nation's debtor lives at the expense of the next generations. The citizens are properly eaten because they are abandoned by this federal government. This government gives taxpayers money to pleitegries and speculators on the financial markets. We from the BZÖ state: Enough paid! Enough paid in wrong channels. Our tax money must remain in Austria and be used meaningfully. Logically, we reject this new Fekter’s burden budget from the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12036	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12058	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! In the pension sector, our foreign policy was to ensure that the system – which is meant to be the pay system – is sustainable, as Mrs Finanzminister told us yesterday. And we hope it stays the same. We still have 2000 ff. in memory, when it went very clearly toward capital cover. The result we know, keyword: pension funds. The future provision – we know today – has failed, and we also see from the German example that this model leads directly to poverty. Austria has taken all measures to ensure that pensions are guaranteed in the future. Of course, not all measures are immediate, such as the approximation of the retirement age of women to that of men or the approximation of the pension right of ASVG and officials. That is why it makes sense for us to take all these measures – and I think they will be sufficient for the next few decades. If it is necessary in 20 years to correct these, then you have to discuss this too. But it is also impossible, as so-called pension experts always try the people with phrases like: The pensions are too high! or: The state's pension contributions are so high, and: The pensions are unfinanceable! to insure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Of 2.2 million pensions, 1.2 million are less than € 1,000 per month. Mr. colleague, if you think that's too much, then say that from here. [[in the direction of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Abg. Hörl: Work longer!]] The pension contribution is too high. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The basic principle of pension financing in Austria is that the employee, the employer and the state make contributions to pensions. The federal share is not a payment for the past. The pensioners had paid their taxes, taxes. And that is why they are entitled to a proper pension scheme. The federal share has always been part of the system as a social part. That's a good thing. And we are in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On account of infinancing: The current long-term forecasts up to 2060 – taking into account the massive increase in the number of older people, about one million to 2060, and also under very pessimistic assumptions for the labour market – show that the necessary federal funds will increase from 5.7 percent to 7.5 percent in this period, while the impact of the Stability Pact from 2011 has not been calculated. This means that it will at least be possible to reduce the slightly higher effort by 2060 by means of better labour integration. The fact is that in Austria the financing of pensions is carried by all, by the boys as by the old. It is also incomprehensible that generations, young and old are constantly being tried against each other and called into question the generation contract. Pensions are safe if we want to, and if we ensure high employment rates. Of course, this needs good training for young people, which requires compatibility of work and family, which requires health protection at work, and it needs jobs for older people in particular, which also calls for the economy. She'll be invited to create it, too. The key to solving these problems, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the future budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12119	Next speaker: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12141	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Colleague List – he is no longer there – has spoken in the usual BZÖ manner, using the usual BZÖ behavior words such as “grantig”, “eaten” and in the Jargon of Seppi Bucher, as the Minister of Finance has already described today. That's not our language. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donate.]] I think we have to deal seriously with the budget. It's true, there's a higher debt. The interest rates are lower, and the total debt is still increasing. Of course, it is also because of the fact that we need to finance banks like the hypo, that we have to look at it there, that we are coming to a recovery – all the things that your predecessors have done. [[Abg. Windwood: You don't think anything else?]] These are, of course, also reflected in this budget. But another consideration of this budget: We have revenue of 76.9 billion; 25.6 billion go to countries and communities. That is to say, the federal government can still have almost 51 billion. Of this, 9 billions of pension grants go away in the ASVG, 6.5 billion for interest rates, 2 billion for the EU, 2.6 billion for research and development, 4 billion for the ÖBB, 5 billion for social transfers and 25 billion staff costs and pensions for government servants and teachers. If someone says we can finance this pension system permanently, he's either a dreamer or something. In fact, this shows that we have little room for manoeuvre and that there is a need for reforms. We don't have any more room for movement. In my opinion, sustainable rehabilitation is only about expenditure. And if someone is talking about cutbacks – that's a common term – then I have to stop that, with 75 percent of government debt, it's hardly possible to talk about it, and it's high time something happened. At 31 percent social rate, it is also not justified to talk about social cold in this country. I can recall the following: Europe has 7 per cent of the world's population, 25 per cent of world's economic performance and 51 per cent of the world's social expenditure, with Austria having a peak. Speaking of social cold here, I think, is probably medically exaggerated. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The OECD average for the social rate is 22 percent. And if we could save only those 9 percent, then that would be 18 billion € that we would have available. This would make it possible to pay debt, make the location more competitive, and then some additional childcare places would be available. These high social quotas in Europe, thus also in Austria, will greatly hinder us in the future in global competition. You know very well that you can only pay these sums with wealth taxes, not even with the inheritance tax. That is why we are opposed to this, for good reason. Look at the numbers! I think we need action here. I think, of course, that we also have a few offensive measures in this budget. I am very satisfied with investment promotion in tourism. The liability regime at the ÖHT is also excellent. That's enough. He's not used. After all, it has to be noted that 2 500 cases of support are present at the EHT and are handled by the countries, which means a total of one billion per year of value added. We only need to be careful that the planned limits of liability are not included in these liabilities. I think that we also have money at our disposal for universities and in education. Something is also done in the primary and the new secondary schools. Youth, young entrepreneurs are also promoted. So I think we have some offensive measures in here too. The whole thing is of course also trust, and I have confidence in our wife Dr. Fekter, who is competent, consistent, economical, almost greedy. She's been a professional for a long time. To talk about the flickering remarks of a BZÖ Klubobmann: She's the dream professional in the right place. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] With it as a sack guard in Vienna and in Brussels we can live well, the entrepreneurs can live well, the taxpayers of this country can also live well. So we can also go into the various consultations. I wish you a nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12195	Next speaker: Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12217	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) So I do not want to start as Mr Darabos said yesterday in the report: Not everything a Minister of Finance says makes sense. So I wouldn't let that happen. But I don't think anyone who doesn't know where he wants to go can't be surprised that he's coming out somewhere else. And that is how this budget is happening to me, with all these objectives. These are such gross targets. I've always thought, and I've learned that once as a teacher, you have to check and measure goals. We remain the same dictum again: First, the banks, then the corporations, then the governments, then the small and medium-sized enterprises, and then the self-employed. Mrs. Fekter said she's the taxpayer's lawyer. The fact is that, of course, the largest population of these self-employed persons has the least rights, but at the same time most of the resources are responsible for maintaining the system. That's why it's not surprising if you always make these number showers, that you notice something: The families do not win, the youth does not win, the counterparts do not win, the small and medium-sized enterprises do not win, the farmers do not win, the pensioners do not win. Who the hell really wins? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's how you have to see it! In fact, the population has said clearly: 285 billion we have debt, great history, 30 500 per head. Well, we're going to be great now. Who's wearing that? Who pays for it? - The general public! No word on administrative and structural reforms. There's a lot of things, we've heard today. Let's discuss it, we've heard about it. The combination of social security measures step by step, maybe three, then still... Mrs. Finanzminister! We are discussing if you are allowed to discuss the German army and have calculated the cross and across. Let us talk about compulsory membership or, for example, a reduction in contributions! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is all just for the citizen, we really mean it. We could talk about tourism, which really has something left, for jobs. You could put money in there. Why not promote where there are real opportunities for development? Why don't we, please, talk about children, that the state needs more children, so that we actually have a value added from human capital? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why not talk about rising youth unemployment, the rise of mental diseases in young people? We pay these damages, please, not only as regards youth, but also financially. Finally, I can only say one thing: You see, the ÖGB knows better that today the Chamber of Commerce offers seminars everywhere, how foreigners come to Austria even cheaper – opening the labour market, great history, I can only congratulate! I say that this budget is not a way out of the crisis and the future of our domestic population, such as distribution justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12290	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12311	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riemer has tried to show somehow very emotional the problem and the gap between the expectations of citizens and the real conditions of public budgets. And that, I think, is actually the big challenge. We are living at a time when tax benefits do not necessarily grow into the infinite, public households are limited and interest payments have increased. And exactly in this spagate, the question is: How much room do we have, and what possibilities do we have? This requires constant consideration of strategies and a fair discussion of who pays and where we take the resources we need, for example, for the whole educational sector, because Mrs Schmied is still sitting on the government bank. Where are the funds for the universities? Where are the major steps to further develop the Austrian education system? And this is not only about money, it is also about educational training alone. Mrs. Federal Minister, I was recently in a “Alternative School” which has won public-law status and which has worked intensively for 20 years on alternative pedagogical approaches, with Montessori pedagogy, with child-oriented learning, development and further education. Today, this combines a kindergarten and, so to speak, a school in a building, is operated with a lot of commitment from the parents and is also perceived by the children with great enthusiasm. This school, to name just one example, has also brought so much innovation to the region. At this celebration, the district school inspector, who reported from personal experiences what she took away positive in the area of this school and at this school, was also present. These are not regular schools in the narrower sense, but they are parts of an innovative education sector. This is just an example of how important it is often not to cut niches apart, to dry them, but, on the contrary, to have an eye on them, because they have so much innovation, so much positive for society. And here we are with the problems of budgets. Where are the indicators? Where are the possible elements of evaluation that we need to weight as well? We only have limited resources. This is a problem again and again, and therefore we Greens are also convinced that we are simply dependent on getting everyone into the boat for a tax justice – in this case we all get into the boat. It is unacceptable, Mr Wöginger, to consider large corporations that today, through their international networking, are paying less and less “profit taxes” – under quotation marks – but simply by their group strategies, invest these positive added values that our population generates elsewhere. - An example. [[Abg. Wöginger: Group taxation!]] That's why you have to think about it over and over again. The existing assets, and this is not a secret, must be reintroduced into the cycle of the economy, into innovation, and there will be a need for capital taxation. We are still waiting for you to take a step further here. The SPÖ colleagues have always made statements here, but we do not have great steps. We have taken small steps, not a question, but the big, necessary steps have remained open. [[Abg. Neubauer: Are you rich?]] – Yes, of course! We, which we are sitting here, belong to this rich segment in Austria, of course. [[Abg. Neubauer: I just wanted to know!]] We're not poor delegates. We are servants of this state, and therefore we only have the right to look at those who have to find their way out with 800 € or 900 € net for 40 hours in that country, have to maintain a family and organize their lives. A word on the agricultural budget or on the chapter on rural development. Here is a very nice sentence, which I would like to interpret personally. It is said here in the speech by Mrs Fekter: ‘In Austria, the clear commitment to a comprehensive, ecological agriculture () is valid.’ A land-covering, ecological agriculture can only be organic farming. Organic farming is quite clearly understood by organic farming. In German, organic farming is organic farming. This is a very interesting statement, because, in fact, we already have 20 percent, Mr Prince, but we are not yet 100%. We Greens are convinced that the direction is right. So organic to 100 percent, for example in kindergartens, for the children, for our diet, and there is money well established. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As an example: It is very important for the children to be nourished healthyly in the diet and in the prevention of food. And with the money we take control of there, we have again – in the medium term, in the long term – benefits in health policy, in the field of precautionary policies, in the fight against overweight et cetera. [[Abg. Huber: The ÖVP already provides the children with glyphosate!]] In addition to exercise, the diet is simply an essential element. That is why we need innovative strategies. I think we will have to discuss this with the relevant ministers in the detail chapter. Mr Berlakovich can be apologised today. In conclusion: Our contribution to the EU budget is therefore so central, because the refinancing of rural programmes by EU funds depends on how large the EU budget will be, colleague. And that is why it is not necessarily productive to limit our resources to the EU if we want to get more or as much money from the EU at the same time as before. This will be an exciting chapter. ==References== In November, finance ministers and Heads of Government will be discussing the new EU budget, and this will certainly have a significant impact on rural development in particular in the agricultural sector. [[Abg. Head: The Heads of Government!]] That's what we're going to look at in detail, colleague Scheibner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12409	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12431	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of Education! High house! We are discussing the 2013 financial plan. If you were 57. Speaking of speakers, a lot has already been said, but I should like to take a very brief look at the figures: 75 billion expenditure is compared with 68.7 billion planned revenue. That means there's a lack of 6.3 billion. At the same time, we have a Minister of Finance who explains how economical one is, and we are talking about zero deficit. – The document is available in 2016. It should not be her innermost conviction, because she mentioned here from the speaker's desk in 2060. How do you react? - We have an interest rate level with record low. We save in 2012 from the planned 8 billion 1.5 billion out of this title, so the interest payments are reduced to 6.5 billion. And, of course, what's broken from my point of view is all that has to do with administration, with the slim state. And here this document of Mrs Finanzminister's speech is very illustrious. On page 7 you can read: ‘Austria is a well-managed country ().’ Yeah, that's right. This is an administration that already manages itself. All of them lack the courage to have a total reform. Our President, who in principle is the head of the ÖGB, as the head of the civil service union, also prevents everything from happening. Let everything remain the way it is! Ladies and gentlemen, if it remains the way it is, then you have to live with the fact that we have a serious finish here again and again. That's not good. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, the Minister of Finance praises himself and her place of business and speaks of 13 000 employees in the Ministry of Finance, of the economical financial management. The Minister of Finance has to answer – I quote here from an article in the “Kronen Zeitung” of the 10th century. October –: Contract cancelled too late – vortex for moving. Insider say: €850,000 in damage. – The Bundesfinanzakademie will move to the Sonnwendgasse next spring. The Erdbergstraße was intended to be handed over to the Ministry of the Interior, where Ms Mikl- Leitner is the competent minister, also from the ÖVP. Now there are difficulties. Now you pay for two buildings, one is empty, damage € 850 000. Mrs Finanzminister! If If you call this a economical financial administration, I can only say that is exactly the opposite, a mismanagement in your own home. And sufferers are now also the staff in the financial administration, who can't do it at all. This is a political failure, and that goes across all areas. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with what you are presenting to us, you are only proving that you are wrong in governing this country, that the financial policy is one It's wrong. It was very, very revealing when Mr Hörl of the ÖVP said earlier in an interlocutory call that people should work longer in this country, and here at the speaker's desk he said that expenditure on pensions is far too high. What Mr Hörl says about the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen of Austria who may be watching you on the screens: We're supposed to work longer and get less pension. – I am telling you exactly the opposite. The policy will work better, and it will only be done if red and black are removed from these offices.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12492	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12513	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Pirklhuber has animated me to choose my words as different from what I had planned because I would like to give you, Mr Pirklhuber. I would like to give you the right that the tasks of a state are also those of creating participation opportunities for all people, of creating justice, of making compensation, and above all, and I would like to stress that as a social democrat, I am in favour of or in favour of securing the so-called risks of life. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That means prevention!]] For me, this includes sickness, unemployment and, of course, age. Age is also a risk. And I think that if we all want to do so together, if policy wants these social benefits or these achievements of our social state to continue to be maintained in scarceer budgets, then we will not avoid new sources of revenue. I'm a hundred percent convinced of that. And capital taxes are, of course, a possibility. I have just read a quote, which I really like very well and which fits well in this debate: Only rich people can afford a slim state. – I think we – politics – have come to give everyone a chance to live their lives properly here in our state. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more word to my colleague, Mr Hörl. If he speaks of reducing social benefits, I also like to know what social benefits are meant by them. And then I'll get to you: Tell people that you want to reduce social benefits! This too has to do with honesty in politics. A few words to Mrs Jarmer. Unfortunately, she's not in the hall right now. In her speech, she asked: Are disabled people worth something for us? – I would like to answer this with a clear yes. If you look at the disability policy of recent years, you can see it very clearly. I would like to highlight this by an example that is in federal competence – unfortunately, disability policy is mostly fragmented on country competences. One example is labour market policy for people with disabilities. If you look at the labour market for people with disabilities, you can see very well that people with disabilities are worth something for us. Look This is in the budget: Next year, 8 percent more budget will be available for funding measures, reintegration or integration of people with disabilities. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that is a very important milestone because employment is the foundation for a self-determined life for all people. The paid employment is also the best factor against poverty. That's the best fight against poverty. And – this is also of great importance to disabled people – of course, it also increases self-esteem. With his budget, Federal Minister Hundstorfer is very much in line with this responsibility. Mrs Jarmer should ask the questions relating to the presentation of the other ministries in the budgets at the budget debates, as I am convinced that all the other ministries of the disability policy that they have worked on in the NAP are also quite sure to meet.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12559	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12580	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the crisis, we have decided to adopt joint measures with which Austria has come through the crisis better than most of our neighbours. We have found the better answers and are therefore well positioned in the international comparison. We have the lowest unemployment rate across Europe, and our youth has a high employment rate. In my opinion, this is a very good result of a very important objective. But we have also managed to preserve the purchasing power of the people. And we are above the average of the European Union in our economic development. If I say, then I mean the entrepreneurs, then I mean the workers, then I mean the framework conditions created by the Federal Government, but I also mean the decisions of this House. To sum up, I can say: Together we've done a lot. ‘Stabile finances through reforms. Growth through offensive measures.” That is the motto of our Minister of Finance's budget speech. Ladies and gentlemen, stable finances and growth are the basis for our prosperity, for high employment and for a good future for our youth. I should like to address a few points: for example, health reform. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: There is no health reform at all! What are you talking about?]] Everyone dealing with this issue knows that the cost of health should not grow further than the average economic growth – of course, subject to optimum security of care for patients. Of course, this path requires great efforts from the federal government, the countries and the health insurance companies. Upper Austria has already fulfilled this task and implemented a health reform. As a result, the expenditure and therefore the contributions from the Land and the municipalities to the hospitals for the first time in 2012 have fallen again after many years of enormous increases. Another point: thermal rehabilitation. It is gratifying that 100 million will be available for this even in 2013; therefore, also, as this will allow 800 million euros of investment to be made available. And this investment volume also means that around 10,000 people have jobs out of this title. Or: the care fund. The donation of €200 million is very important for us communities. However, the additional resources for the extension of childcare, especially for under three years old, should also be mentioned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that this budget will make an important contribution to re-establishing our government budget and that we will be able to achieve a balanced budget in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12623	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12644	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It was already a sensation, as yesterday the Minister of Finance, in her budget speech, had a new debt of €6.7 billion for the year 2013. At €6.5 billion, the state spends as much on interest as on families and youth. Only half of them – that is, €3.2 billion – finance family support for 1.7 million children and young people. Family benefits have not been adjusted to inflation since 2002, so families lose their purchasing power year after year. Inflation adjustment of family aid would therefore be urgently needed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At an actual inflation rate of around 5 percent, the population is fighting and families in particular are struggling with constant inflation. The ÖVP wants more money for the families. I quote from the “Small Newspaper” of 24. August 2011: “ÖVP wants more money for families. ÖVP wants to discuss an inflation adjustment for family benefits. In the case of pensions, an inflation adjustment was provided by law, families were equally disadvantaged and there was no automatic adjustment at present, said the Minister of Family Mitterlehner ( ).’ I quote: “Family benefits have not been adapted for years, said Mitterlehner in connection with inflation. It is necessary to discuss this question and, in his opinion, it is also possible to imagine it." So, Minister Mitterlehner! He wants an adjustment. He's supposed to do it at last! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He is supposed to implement it, because over a million family aid beneficiaries are waiting for the implementation of the inflation adjustment by the Federal Minister and our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12700	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12721	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners at home, if you have managed to listen so far! [[Abg. Scheibner: We really listen to you!]] It is probably a little difficult to follow the debate, as it deals with such different issues in a row. In any case, I will talk about the environmental budget. I believe that the environmental budget would actually be the central chapter, since the challenges we face in the field of the environment, as well as the opportunities, are one of the essential tasks and challenges of our century at all. As a result, it is all the more shocking for me that environmental policy does not matter at all to this Federal Government. We are experiencing a reduction in the environmental budget. And: Budget is a policy cast in figures. Just as Mr Berlakovich's Minister of Agriculture has unfortunately used to say in the budget speech of Mrs Finanzminister yesterday – even if you look at the budget – there has been nothing but keywords, headlines and advertisements, but no means for active environmental policy. Unfortunately, the environment is not included in the budget list. There seems to be zero will to address the existing problems – whether climate change, the necessary adaptations to climate change, energy dependence or the dependence on fossil raw materials. Increasingly expensive fossil raw materials are a problem for many people in Austria. But there are also very classic problems that cause health problems, such as poor air quality values. So either you don't see all of this, or you don't want to deal with these problems in fact. Failure to do so However, they also have the opportunities we have through the energy transition, the use of renewable energy, which, in turn, secures regional value added, jobs. All of this is reflected in the words that the Minister of Finance also spoke in a paragraph in her budget speech of energy autarchy and green jobs, just as the Minister of Agriculture always advertises it, but unfortunately we do not find in the budget any way that this is actually to be implemented. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Certificate trading!]] The environmental budget has been reduced by €350 million. You can now explain this with the certificate trading. Austria had to buy CO2 certificates because it did not meet the Kyoto targets, and that is now dropping away. The Kyoto period ends with 2012, so we don't have to buy any certificates now. The resources for this need not be provided for in the environmental budget, but I am already wondering: Why does the Federal Government make this money available when it comes to buying free, buying certificates – it was always our problem that the entire environmental budget was blocked by this climate failure – and why not leave this money in the environmental budget now and use it to make really active environmental policy and finally put in place environmental measures in Austria? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not only an environmental madness, but also a nationally stupid one, because every euro – as evidenced by reports from the Ministry of Agriculture – that is invested in domestic environmental funding comes back five times to the Ministry of Finance. I wonder if the government does not know its own reports because it is shortening the environmental budget. There can only be a conclusion, namely to increase the environmental budget, but the resources already provided for environmental promotion in the country, for the climate and energy funds, which, for example, grant photovoltaic funding and which have always been rejected by many applicants, are further shortened. I find it shocking to see the importance of environmental policy in Austria. I think it's very different. We Greens show this in many communities, in many federal states, and I am convinced that this is also possible at federal level and must be possible – but not in this government constellation. That is why I am convinced that Austria needs a state-of-the-art, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment, and we will still achieve this.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12779	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12800	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor referred to the well-known saying that the budget was the government policy cast in figures. A budget speech by the Minister of Finance should normally include an overview of the Federal Government's projects for the next year. We were all at it yesterday, Mr Jarolim smiles, not quite wrong, we were aware of yesterday's experience of how it was. The speech has been rather lustless, and the only thing that remains has been remembered was the Schlencher, the warning to all those who want to stand for a volunteer army that there will be no money for it. The Minister of Defence has commented on this with quite unhappiness, according to the body language. That's what depends on this budget speech. I think we really have to consider whether even the ritual can be changed, that perhaps the Minister of Finance will report and present it to the Minister of Finance in the future, in free speech and not in reading, that might be a bit more fleeting. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: No, the game of mine!]] All in all, of course, you have to ask yourself the question now: Has it been, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, what you still want to put on great measures at the end of a legislative period? This proposal does not contain anything at all. Let's remember! I do not know how many working groups and project groups you set up at the beginning, how often you have said, until the end of the legislative period the results will be available. We will then bring them to Parliament, and that will be implemented. - Where are the reforms? Unfortunately, the Minister for Education is no longer here, I wanted to ask her what the reform of the school administration is like. We agreed years ago – I think three years ago – on a consensus, we said: Yeah, let's do it! The Minister said that, unfortunately, she is not responsible for the implementation. Nothing has come to this day. A meaningful reform of the school administration, presented by a minister, we are all in favour of it – it does not come because it seems that one cannot agree! No word of that in the budget speech. It's just a little flashlight. The foreign policy, which I can say as a foreign-political speaker, is a paragraph dedicated to: Reforms through savings, by closures of foreign representations. If this is the only goal we have to increase service – as it stands – by closing messages, it seems to me to be a little thin as a great approach to the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The whole problem of the European Union, ESM, Fiscal Pact, is one or one and a half sentences, although we know exactly, everything is open. It is about at least €20 billion in loads, liabilities, possible loads for our budget. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] All of this is just about it, the main thing is that you have made a political slider to the coalition partner. It's too little for us, ladies and gentlemen! If this is the succous of four years of government policy and the prospect of the fifth year, then it is a song by a federal government that really does nothing more.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12849	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12886	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After answering three speakers from the opposition series, it is very nice. On the one hand, it is called upon to save radically, and at the same time it is called on to increase expenditure or to set up an additional ministry. – That doesn't fit together, so it's not possible! I should like to draw attention to important measures implemented and continued by the Federal Government. On the one hand, thermal building renovation, which for environmental reasons brings many advantages but also has a high employment value, especially in the regions, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and covers a wide range of industries that are very important for the regions. Second area – and it fits the exhibition that can be seen in the column hall, namely “Innovation country Austria” –: Innovation check for small and medium-sized enterprises. I am from the city, from the Wels district, and in this region alone, 60 businesses have taken advantage of this promotion and are therefore forward-looking on the road, secure and create additional jobs, which are well paid jobs. These two examples show that a positive employment policy that we need is also possible through a manageable use of resources. I should like to mention one more point: School and education. At the beginning of the 2012/2013 school year, that is, a few weeks ago, it became a compulsory subject in the New Middle School for the first time. In other words, the students are better prepared for professional entry, the school offers vocational orientation, teaching and matura. The figures rise because this brings an advantage to young people and helps them to find easier entry into the world of work. I should also like to mention one point outside the budget: I wish that the discussions on the People's Group Law will finally come to an end. It is a lot of good will, and I hope that those who still practice criticism will also behave constructively in the discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12930	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e12951	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Especially in economic times, however, a little more disturbing is a far-sighted and reasonable budget creation, and with Mrs. Maria Fekter, we have a smart, excellent Minister of Finance, which guarantees this. [[Abg. May. Gässner: This is what the Grillitsch has already said, but it doesn't have to be said by everyone!]] We do not need to hide from the opposition in the European comparison, although some of the unknowings of the opposition were heard again today. On the contrary! We have come through the crisis better than many, many other countries in Europe through the actions of the Federal Government and the national governments and the successful cooperation of the social partners. The figures prove this irrevocable. Unemployment is currently about 4.4 percent and is as low as anywhere in Europe. My federal country, my home country Tirol is one of all 271 EU regions with an unemployment rate of 2.5 percent. I should also like to remind you that we have created 160 000 new jobs since the height of the crisis in Austria, while there are fewer jobs in the European Union today than before the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen! Guarantee for this development, for this positive development, are our many, many courageous entrepreneurs, our thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, combined with the skilled employees, also with a strong industry that is very, very successful worldwide. Without the employees, without the entrepreneurs, we would not be as successful as we are. They deserve a great thank you, because they are the backbone of a healthy and strong economic development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Federal Minister mentioned it yesterday: It is precisely this healthy mix, which makes Austria so strong, this mix of domestic consumption and strong export industry, from production and service, from trade and industry, tourism, industry large and small. Only three other states in Europe have a similar mix. Of course, there are other ideas within the coalition as well as within the opposition, how we should consolidate our budget. We are talking about tax increases, new taxes, rich taxes, wealth taxes, envy taxes, as I say. But let me tell you at this point, that will not happen with the People's Party! Austria is already a high tax country. We have not too little taxes, but too much taxes. We want to go down with the taxes, we want the citizen to keep more money in the stock exchange, whereas the other people don't want it that way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need framework conditions for the economy so that jobs and the economy can flourish so that we can maintain growth and prosperity. With this budget, the Federal Government sets the right priorities with offensive measures in the field of education. At universities, in research and development, as well as in infrastructure and in thermal renovation, growth and employment are created or secured. In the second part of my remarks, I would like to take a brief look at the events that have already taken place here today. We have become a witness to this carnivorous process, which has been used between the Stronach mercenaries and this Titanic BZÖ. Meanwhile – as can be read in the evening edition of the “Kurier” – there is also a judicial continuation because three persons from the BZÖ have made an affidavit. It is a pity that Mr Huber is not here now, because I would like to say that Mr Huber, as the past shows, has a rather loose relationship to affidavitary statements. To this end, I should like to draw your attention to the facts that took place with us in Tyrol in 2010. We had municipal council elections, Mr. Huber took part in Lienz with his own BZÖ list, became sixth out of seven candidate lists and did not come to the municipal council. Instead of doing good democratic enough and accepting this result, he accused the mayor of having manipulated the election. He said he would not have received 25 out of 306 valid votes in the voting vote, but almost four times as much, 95. To support this, Huber presented 28 affidavital statements, in which persons claimed to have chosen Huber. The mayor has reviewed these names, and that has already given an amazing result, namely: five of the 28 signers were not part of the corresponding election, another had given his vote with one election card, five others had not gone to election at all, and the crowning: One of the signers is Croatian citizen! What Mr Huber intends to do with his affidavit, he will already know that perhaps he should just consider whether he wants to do so. In principle, we have nothing to do with the ÖVP about what you are doing about BZÖ and Stronach Troupe, but perhaps you are thinking about it, because democracy is proving that You don't have good service with that. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then explain your policy to us! We are still waiting for your political announcement!]] – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13022	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13043	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From the election methods of Mr. Huber back to the Federal Finance Act for the year 2013! Revenue of €68.7 billion, expenditure of €75 billion, which results in a loss of €6.3 billion. – This budget, said the Minister of Finance yesterday, sets the right impetus. Ask yourself, for whom, ladies and gentlemen, for whom? For the EU, for the speculators, for the financial sharks, but certainly not for the domestic population, for the many diligent people in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These can almost no longer afford daily life, whether it is the housing and rental prices, whether when shopping, tanking, heating. Since the increase in mineral oil tax, heating oil has become almost inexhaustible for older people in particular. The same, ladies and gentlemen, applies to counterparts. The pendler's fee and the kilometer's money no longer equal the massive price at Weitem. And what does the Minister of Finance say, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen? – She says: Everything in order! We have the highest debt in the Second Republic, and the Nobel Prize to the EU does not benefit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have had the strongest price in Austria since January. It is always said that we are European champions. – Yes, we are European champions, ladies and gentlemen. This Federal Government of SPÖ and ÖVP is a European champion with regard to the burden on citizens! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13101	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13122	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What makes this budget so difficult, which makes the study, a comparative study of this budget so difficult with the budgets of recent years, is that the budget classification has been completely put on the head. That is why it is also very difficult to compare the figures of recent years, the last budgets. Therefore, my request to the members of the government, which we have to deal with only in the respective committees, is at least to try to explain in principle how the new budgetary system is meant and how we can compare the estimated expenditure, the estimated posts with those of recent years. For example, so-called impact targets have been introduced. In principle, it is to be welcomed that there is in the budget where the Federal Government intends to use this budget in sub-areas, which is the objective and what is to be achieved. But if you look at concrete objectives of action, you experience bigger and smaller surprises, and I want to talk about the bigger in the few minutes available to me. For example, if you look at the target state at the Ministry of the Interior's budget regarding subjective security, you experience quite a surprise. The following can be read in the Internal breakdown: ‘Subjective security feeling: Target status 2013: Over 80% of the Austrian population in 2013 feels very safe or more secure.” – That sounds great, that sounds relatively much. Then the state of affairs 2011 comes with regard to the subjective sense of security, namely: 96 percent. So 16 percent more felt very secure or more secure in Austria in 2011. That's what I'm asking myself: With this budget, does the Federal Government want to reduce the subjective sense of security in the Austrian population? Is that supposed to be a target? – That is completely incomprehensible. If you look at another area, namely the subjective integration climate, this also looks relatively scurry, but again quite different. The Federal Government obviously does not trust anything, as the target status for 2013 is: “More than 36.4% of the population believe that integration in Austria works very well or rather well;” If you look at the 2011 state of the art, you can see: It is 35.5% according to the budget. In other words, the Federal Government trusts only one percentage, which could be increased in the subjective integration climate. This is not surprising, because if you look at the details of the interior resort, you can see that the topic of integration is seriously neglected. There is no mention of equal opportunities, of the benefits of all potentials and of what measures we could take there. It is said that funding for language learning should increase, but at the same time the Federal Government remains guilty for years for a concrete plan on how comprehensive German courses could be introduced into the country. We held this debate in the Committee on Budgets last year, but the State Secretary for Integration was unable to tell me, first of all, how much money is spent on the German courses, and second, how many German courses there are in Austria as a whole. Now, a year later, we are presented with a budget where it is said that the funding for language learning should rise. I would advise the Federal Government to finally put forward a concrete plan of what it wants to do with language learning, and would like to ask it to explain to us at the committee meetings how much money it intends to do for this. In this sense: Let's get to work on the budget! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13180	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13202	Mr President. Yes, dear empty government bank! High house! Unfortunately, the Federal Minister is not here today, probably for the reason that she herself cannot believe what she did in the best way she did yesterday. She writes in your report that it has succeeded in obtaining the purchasing power of the people. The Federal Minister probably does not know that the people in this country are relying on their savings because it is better to spend the money now than to leave it on the account. Inflation, interest, capital income tax – at the end of the day you have less on the account than at the beginning. Therefore, there is this purchasing power in this country. The Federal Minister also writes that the tourism figures are encouraging. – Mrs. Federal Minister – as I said, in absence – the loss of the market share of six percent within two years is truly a very “rejoicing” fact. It is also really “enjoyable” that value added has fallen from the tourism and leisure sectors. In 2011, this was 14.6 percent of GDP, while in 2010 it was still 15.1 percent. – So also a truly very “rejoicing” matter! The Minister of Finance also spoke of confidence in the Austrian economy, which secures jobs and creates prosperity. – But I have to give her the right thing! However, the Federal Minister did not strongly support the fact that the Austrian companies create jobs, for example through tax incentives, or through recovery actions for retired Austrian businesses. That is how we can secure prosperity! We must not forget – and Mr Doppler has already said that – the rate of inflation. In September it was 2.7 percent. This is the highest increase this year since January. And now, just before the beginning of the heating season, the heating costs are still exploding. The Minister of Finance then has to explain this to the 1.5 million people who live below the poverty line! – So much for prosperity in this country. Another thing: We will save up to €1.4 billion of grants to the company by 2016 alone at ÖBB. – I must say quite honestly that I am already relatively happy, because you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, will certainly not have forgotten that it was you who have provided €33 billion for the railway infrastructure this year, namely 33 billion without an interest rate calculation – the Austrians’ money! This money is effective until 2066. The Federal Minister – on the way somewhere, but unfortunately not here; we are only discussing today her report, which she presented yesterday – also writes that the need for consolidation of social security amounts to 144 million. The cost reduction of the countries will be in the billions. I would like to ask the Federal Minister where the cost reduction will be, where it will be saved. Perhaps in health care, perhaps in the case of people who pay their contributions, who need a doctor or who are sick? And: 161 branches, 7 719 persons only in the administrative field, 109 service weights, travel costs of about 4.9 million, chief days for about 11 million, 700 million for social security. – We call for a rapid merger of social security institutions. For this, the Federal Minister could really make himself strong. The Minister of Finance also says that the youth has the right to also receive a decent pension. – Yes, we expect it now, but what we miss, these are simply reforms. I am not referring to the seven billion that the Minister has recast this year, but to future-oriented reforms. Our pension system is – and this is not a secret – just before the collapse. [[Abg. Riepl: Now you're exaggerating a little!]] More and more pensioners are facing fewer and fewer contributors, and pension experts have been alarming for years. But nothing is actually done. – We want a fair and transparent pension account! If Mrs. Federal Minister calls herself a lawyer for taxpayers and taxpayers, I have a very big request to her: Please do not do so, because with this statement you insult a very honorable profession! Finally, Mrs. Federal Minister – and this could actually be the chorus: Back in the absence! –: A debt of more than 230 billion €. According to EUROSTAT study, there are still 30 billion liabilities for ÖBB; ASFINAG, Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft and other outsourced companies, 11 billion for market-based companies of the municipality of Vienna, liabilities of the countries for various Land-Hypos, guarantees in the double-digit area under the bank rescue package, 27 billion liabilities for Bad Banks such as municipal credit, 41 billion liabilities for the ESM and the ESFS. This actually makes a debt – and as we know, liability can be beaten at any time – of 340 billion. Thus, real government debt is well over 100 percent. We hope there will be no recession in the future, and we also hope that interest will not increase. The Federal Minister thanked the EU, the banks, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, she should rather thank the Austrian taxpayer. The Minister of Finance says that the budget serves the security of our country's future. - But then she should present a balanced budget. A fair, simple tax system, no planning centralism, more competition, more democracy and more sovereignty for Austria: That's what we stand for, that's what the Stronach team stands for!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13260	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13284	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! High house! I come to the sports budget for a moment. We are talking about the general federal sports promotion, of infrastructure, of the special federal sports promotion, of activities that are shown in this budget. I would like to mention that the general federal sports promotion this time is very high with almost €46 million. In this sport promotion, from sports major events to support sports medicine, sports science, youth promotion, the “red-white-red sports venues”, there is everything that sports needs, of which the sport lives. We have also shown special funding. We are talking here about the special federal sports promotion, which is known to be making a bee at €80 million at the moment. In total, it is € 144 million available for sports in Austria. Of course, we are invited to provide the means to sport efficiently and reasonably and to see that little comes to the administration and much to the athletes. And this is what the Minister of Sports, with his budget, has made a very fair effort to implement. I just want to remind you: The Ski World Championship in Schladming is already waiting next year. And particularly interesting is the fact that a very, very meaningful re-use of the sports venues in Schladming already takes place in 2017 with the World Winter Games of the Special Olympics. Thus, one can say that the investment of the federal government has a great added value and also a great meaning when a second major world event uses the site and here the federal government also provides good support. The “Red-White-Red Team” will be equipped with a little more money. The experts know we're talking about top sports promotion here. That's where we have a lot to do and get back to Olympia. It is intended to provide even more efficient support for athletes to prepare for the big sporting events that will come on us even better. I would particularly like to highlight the Paralympics. Also the promotion of this association, this sportsmen and athletes found their rainfall in the sports budget. I think the 13 medals that the paralympic athletes brought home to all surprise were a cause of great joy. You can't often congratulate enough and say thank you for the great achievements of these athletes, who have delivered a great performance under the most difficult conditions – and they are not in the sun of the big sponsors – and have represented Austria very well. Congratulations once again from this point of view! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is important that we just distribute the funding, that the associations have security in planning, have longer planning periods, not always one year, and that the basic funding creates good infrastructure equipment. The Minister did very, very good preparatory work. For two years now, associations, experts, athletes and officials have been intensively preparing the law, and now it is known to be in review for almost four weeks, and then we want to discuss it again here in plenary. Sports minister Darabos has certainly deserved great praise and is thus setting another milestone in the history of sports. We will accompany and support this as far as it stands in our power.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13344	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13365	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This is the general debate on this budget, and I do not want to go into many, in part, very encouraging chapters, such as the really significant increase in funding for research and innovation, the promotion of young entrepreneurs over the past few years and also in this budget, but also some very general things about this budget. I would particularly like to praise our Federal Minister Fekter for one, namely that she is a bastion against the fact that new taxes and more taxes are constantly being invented by all possible sides in this country. This is actually a condition that is no longer portable for the people of this country. We are an absolute high tax country with over 43 percent tax rate. I know that many people in this house – we have read a lot about it just the last few weekends – are constantly being talked about how unfair it is: The rich pay too little for the poor to get poorer and poorer. [[Abg. Riepl: That's the way it is!]] – The truth is another! Even in the rich European Union, Austria is one of the countries with the absolute greatest justice, the best justice factor, with one of the highest rates of transfers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: We have the lowest tax on assets in Europe!]] In this country, 25 percent of people pay 80 percent of all taxes. More than two thirds of people live on these charges and this social compensation because of the lack of their own income. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] If this does not end, that there is still more and more and more demands here, then we are driving this country to the abyss! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] We now have a 75 percent debt ratio. Without our Minister of Finance, without our Presidency Minister Pröll, we would probably be much higher there. But, ladies and gentlemen, also those at home! At home, too, everyone is aware that it is not possible to make permanent and still more debts every year. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Hörl.]] It is clear to everyone that sometime, perhaps in a not too distant future, something like this simply cannot go out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] Because justice is spoken of in connection – it sounds great! – taxing rich people and saying that over a million can pay everyone more: [[Abg. Riepl: Exactly!]] Do you have any idea who you're talking about?- Oh, my God! [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] A small carpenter with 1 100 square meters somewhere in the country where the reason is not worth much anyway, with twelve employees, with four apprentices, with a few tableware equipment has for his company already a fortune of €1.6 million. [[Abg. Riepl: That's what you're talking about!]] That's what we're talking about! He's got twelve people. There are 80 percent of people working in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: You're talking about this – we're not!]] With all the equipment park and his property he has not yet earned any grossen. The only thing he can do when this substance is to cancel people. And you would bear the responsibility for that! The ÖVP is certainly not involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13565	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13613	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Honourable Members! Dear colleagues! If Mr. Gabriel Obernosterer, who calls out there in front, today has been dissuasive and dissuasive about the Carinthian financial officer, I think, he may have forgotten that the ÖVP has taken part in all the budgets of the last period and that, for the second time, the net debt in Carinthia has been below €200 per head last year, in the Styria over €300 and in Vienna more than €500. In view of this, I think you should consider who you're talking about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And thirdly – and this is perhaps also quite interesting – the two red government members have come out each time with the budget, only the black member of the government has made constant demands, because it has not done so. I think you should think about who you're yelling at, and come in front of your own door, that would be better. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Another interesting thing – and I am convinced, dear Peter Duster, you will support me: [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: I don't think he can!]] While we communities are really fighting and scratching that we can carry out our tasks, – and we have now come to it – more than €7 million have been raised in the Black Municipal Unit. And they're not willing to distribute it fairly. This is used for the election campaign for the black communities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] And I wonder if he has the right to criticize and judge out here. – So much about the Carinthian situation. Stable finances through reforms, growth and offensive measures. - Yeah, we've heard enough today. Make debt, higher taxes and, subsequently, rejoice over interest rates. We know that the interest rates are not Austrian success, but they are on the ground throughout Europe. The savers are suffering. Yes, this helps our state, but I think we should not rest on it and say that we are so perfect because the interest rates are low. What hurts me a lot more is the lack of reforms. There are 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors, but no one has been implemented; we have already heard that. But not only that no one has been implemented, but rather we are constantly creating new burdens, the administration bleaks. When I think about the transparency database discussed yesterday, I have to say: She won't help at all! It will not help save, but it will generate much more administration and bureaucracy. I think we should really get on the nose, especially the government should try to get on the nose and save with it. Simplify! [[Abg. Riepl: Start once!]] Yeah, right. Simplify! Only: You should not have agreed to the transparency database, then you would have been well served. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Riepl.]] Right! You shouldn't have agreed. A topic is also very interesting: more money for childcare and education. - Yes. The government gives a small “sugarle”, and we communities usually have to put the double thing on it. However, it should also be borne in mind that we are Communities almost no longer create with these requirements which you make us. On the topic “Education, Language Promotion for Children with Migration Background.” – This is certainly an important thing. But on the other hand, we have to lock up many rural schools because the money is no longer there. And there I ask, Where's the value? Are children with migration backgrounds more important today than the children of rural areas? There, I think we should not play out in the future! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do not play against each other: either – or!]] Then you should give it to both, but it can't be that we give more money for it, but cut it on the other side. This is incomprehensible to many and hurts us. On the subject of agriculture and forestry: It was very nice to see how today, Mr Auer, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, has made good negotiations to ensure that the farmers are well served – and in the morning you agree to a new package of taxes for agriculture! You should also think about it honestly, because I think everyone really laughs about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To sum up, I think it would be desirable for the budget to really pay attention to reforms in the future and not just to redistribute and re-burden them.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13715	Next speaker: Deputy Duster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13736	Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! – Dear colleague Max Linder, I give you the right, we both sit in the Carinthian congregation and fight together for the concerns of the Carinthian communities. You're perfectly right, we're on a line and we're fighting together. We have already discussed and discussed in great detail today the various chapters of the budget. In my view, however, the situation of rural areas and communities, which are the most important cells of our common cohabitation, has been completely too short for me. In the budget speech of our Minister of Finance Fekter, this part was only mentioned on the verge, with a lapidary commitment to the offensive promotion of disadvantaged areas and rural development. This alone is too little for me, because we have been hearing this for years on every occasion from all possible and impossible politicians, alone: There's no action! Without money, music does not play, and therefore it is important that something actually happens here. Not for nothing, in its rural master plan, the Austrian Municipal Government is at last calling for binding funding for urgent measures to maintain rural infrastructure. The maintenance of schools, of kindergartens, the rehabilitation of these, of armaments, of municipal roads, of canalization, of water supply and so on are things that we in the communities are simply no longer able to finance alone with our budgets. Mobility is also an important issue for us, because in rural areas more and more bus lines and railway lines are being set up, and people no longer know how to go to the centres or like the children in schools I'm supposed to come. These are also important concerns that we simply have to take seriously. The already occurring emigration from the rural regions is a fact, and we all know that our well-trained youth simply emigrates to the big cities, to the university cities and then no longer returns to their home towns, their communities, the rural regions because of the job situation there. It is therefore time for all the parties represented in Parliament to become aware of this problem and for us to take steps together to counter it. We really need solidarity here. I also believe that this so-called graded population key in the current form is no longer up-to-date, but that the small communities, the rural regions, need to be more closely observed. In this sense, I would ask for support for the communities, for the rural regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13788	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13809	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! The general debate on the budget tends to end, and I do not want to get a summary, but if one listens to the individual words, then it is logical – that is lived democracy – that the government of course approves the budget and that the government parties are also convinced that it is good while the opposition criticizes it. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Would it be time!]] [[Abg. Kickl: It was always like that!]] That is also their right and should be so, of which democracy lives. But when you listen to what has been said about criticism, you wonder if that is still realistic. On the one hand, public debt is sued, on the other hand, new investment in billions is called for, and that does not fit in. This budget is balanced, it has the right objective: stability and growth. If I listen to what is said here and we compare with other countries – and everyone who comes around knows that – then you can only say: We cry in Austria at a very high level! You can see that. You can only compare when you're somewhere else. Greece has been mentioned more often today. Last week, some of us were at an OECD Economic Conference in Tirana. There the Greeks told us how they were doing. There they have described to us what social tensions, what unemployment is in their country, how poor people are. The rich have deducted their savings of €200 billion, they are gone, but the people are coming to the handcushion. We do not want such conditions in Austria, and therefore it is logical and good for the Minister to put together responsibly a budget which, on the one hand, has the objective of saving, i.e. reducing the deficit by 2016, on the other hand, to promote stability and growth. It is also working very intelligently with this budget. If you take the page 10 of the budget speech here, for example: "The promotion of thermal rehabilitation with 100 million. Euro per year will continue in 2013. With this funding we mobilise an investment volume of 800 million. Euro.’ If you calculate this now and calculate VAT out of the 100 million euros and 800 million investment volumes alone, then you get 160 million euros of VAT that return. To promote that is therefore a very intelligent thing, that is a self-trailer. You have to say that. We said that ten years ago, there I was still a building speaker, there I was still a lonely caller in the desert. Now it is God's thanks that all are aware that thermal renovation is an essential contribution to saving, but also to improving the budget of each household. I quit now, my speaking time is over. We will certainly have an opportunity to address the individual chapters, but I believe – and I am convinced, as well as my party, the ÖVP – that this budget is balanced and good and oriented towards stability and growth. I think we'll be good at it next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13859	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13880	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grossruck, I am not going to sum up either, because the summation will then be drawn in the final consequence of the electorate next year, 2013. It will also show whether it was a good, balanced budget or not. I believe that our opinion on this has already been expressed quite well today. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address an area which has not yet been found, until now, in the area of military defence. [[Abg. New builder: The professional!]] It may not have happened because there is once again €80 million less for the German army, in an area which has already been starved in recent years, especially budgetaryly starved. We liberals say quite openly: Of course, the current defence budget – and also the 2013 one – does not make any necessary reforms possible. All the more important it would be for Federal Minister Darabos to use the little money he has available to the Federal Army. What happens, ladies and gentlemen? He forces his – I say it quite openly – Party-politically motivated pilot projects. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Politically motivated?- Oh, my God!]] If you take the tomorrow edition of a large Austrian daily, it says: Professional, project is on track, everything is wonderful. [[Abg. Riepl: It works!]] - So it works, good. Mr President, I will now show you how it works: The figures published today, which were also given for the best by Federal Minister Darabos at the press conference, draw a different picture. This is a picture that reflects the Federal Minister's chao policy when it comes to setting up his professional militia. You also know that the professional mill is an important part of its professional army model. Mr Darabos, Federal Minister, has tried to set up two pioneers with a total of 115 soldiers and celebrates that 2,000 have been reported in the last eight months. So far, so good. Unfortunately, of these 2,000, only 128 were in military use, so there is a habitability rate of 6.4 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] If you put this on the professional heir of the Minister of State, that on 20 July. That would mean that we need exactly 145 000 volunteers for 9 300 men. I don't even think the SPÖ Group believes that this is happening. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we were to set the same pace as now, namely the 115 soldiers eight months, then the Federal Minister Darabos would need 48 years to have these 9 300 volunteers. We all know, 48 years, that will probably no longer be the case with the Federal Minister Darabos as Minister. Mrs Lapp, I'm glad you're back! You told me yesterday, I'm running Darabos-Bashing. I don't run Darabos-Bashing, but that's criticism that can be taken seriously. And I would like everyone who lives here as a Member of Parliament to take their responsibility seriously for the protection and assistance of the people and to stand up for a federal army that does not regard as a Darabos-Bashing, but takes this criticism and hopefully pursues politics in the sense of a secure Austria. Mrs Lapp, last sentence: I've been serving the federal army for 17 years – you found it yesterday – in barracks every day. I don't know how many times you're in barracks. At a New Year's reception or at a gula meal maybe sometime. [[Abg. May. Lap: You have no idea!]] But you can believe me, I also have the ear with the staff, and I know where the federal army is.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13978	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e13999	Mr President. Dear Mr Financiary State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As it has been said earlier, it will be saddened at a very high level, I will try to cry at a less high level. As some may know, the report on the social situation of students in Austria has recently been presented over the period from 1998 to 2011. The proportion of students from socially disadvantaged shifts fell from 26 to 18 percent in the period. This means that more than 24,000 young people were denied academic careers. This is very often related to the financial situation. At the same time, we know about the injustices of the scholarship system in Austria. In total, there are approximately 40 000 students from more than 300,000 students who receive aid. And yet the real situation is that almost half of the students, 47 percent, have to go to work next to their studies. I think it is clear that we young people must be able to have the best access to education. We are obliged to do so, and this is also a location advantage of Austria. But since you are more determined to invest in students and their support, I think, it is a must, because it is already a clear difference whether you are working and studying by the way, that of course also manifests itself in the quality of your study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14034	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14056	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A fundamental right in Parliament is free speech. The general debate on the budget is not the event for beautiful speeches, nor is it the event, where reality is suppressed. But the general debate is not the occasion where there is a competition for bad luck. I would just like to say to those who are not at all satisfied: You're talking about your country where you live! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And you bear responsibility whether opposition or government. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You don't want to hear that. But that's what you once said, because I think that's more or less our duty. Whether the budget speech makes you happy or not: She was good! This has also been reflected today by media comments in general. The budget speech is under a clear heading, anyone who could not listen can read it. Here it says: ‘Stabile finances through reforms. Growth through offensive measures’. [[Abg. Kickl: It's on it, but it's not right!]] The budget is a good achievement of the Minister Fekter and the State Secretary and the High Civil Service. The budget is not something that makes a single person. That's a whole team. That's what the Ministry is doing. And I think that we all have to take this seriously, although, of course, there may be different views. The budget has been drawn up under particularly difficult circumstances. There are existing debts – but please in all local authorities. Don't always talk as if only the Federation had its problems! All local authorities have these problems, including in many other public institutions. We have an economic and labour crisis throughout Europe, over four years. We in Austria have mastered them well. This, too, would be a reason to think, perhaps to gain a certain degree of satisfaction. But I would like to say a few things that concern me. The budget could perhaps bring much more, but we would not have to provide bank support in our own country. There are those responsible in the relationship, I believe, think! [[towards FPÖ]] But there is also banking aid in other countries, and I would like to allow myself to say two things. First: The financial flows in Europe are re-examined. It can't be that on the one hand you have to make compensation for damages on behalf of solidarity, but you yourself transport taxes and labour revenues somewhere else. Europe has to talk about this question once! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And the second: I would also not be unhappy if the banking supervision in my own country showed a little more thoroughness, because it makes no sense if we get reports from there on a long scale, but at the end of the day we have to deal with the damage. There, I think we should deal more with the practice. There was an impressive event here on Friday. The President of the European Parliament Schulz was here, and there was a comprehensive debate. His message was mostly: We need employment in Europe. If we do not have that, we will not be able to keep the prosperity in our States and also in our country. He has made a clear commitment that we need not only to reorganise the financial flows, but above all to give money to where we need, namely not only in urban areas, but above all in rural areas. I have been very glad that Mr President Schulz and also Mrs Kadenbach have made a clear commitment to rural development, but also to agricultural compensation. I hope and wish that this message has arrived well and will become a reality during the negotiations in November, December; for: We live from reality – from nothing else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't like it either, if we keep swirling around the euro. Ladies and gentlemen, those who do have to know that we are finally scratching our Europe. That doesn't make any sense. We compete with so many other economies in the world. We must see that our Europe, which we belong to, remains stable. Then prosperity is assured, then there will be work, and then there will be a reasonable development in the future. This budget has a right path, and everyone is invited to take these proposals seriously and to participate in a positive design.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14120	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14142	Mr President. Mr Donabauer! We are not talking about Austria, we are talking about politics in Austria, especially about financial policy in Austria. And we are in great concern for our federal state. [[Abg. Donabauer: Yes, to your federal state!]] We are very concerned about Austria if we continue with the policy of being presented to us by the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has presented the budget to us. She spoke for a very long time, she spoke a lot – she said little, and she kept a lot of things quiet. It has been silent that we have experienced the highest debt with this budget since the beginning of the Second Republic. It has kept silent that the debt level now amounts to 90 percent of GDP, taking into account the debt of the outsourced companies. This is more than €30 000 for every Austrian and every Austrian. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] It has been silent that the Court of Auditors has made 599 proposals for administrative and health reform. She hasn't picked up any point. No point of the Court of Auditors' 599 proposals has taken it up in its budget speech and we say that we want to implement it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Fekter promised us a few more months ago. It has fully stated that there will be an exact point landing of 3.0% of GDP in relation to the Maastricht criteria. This point landing is more likely to have become a break when you look at the budget. She told us that there would be a turn of government debt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] Yes, where is this turn, Mr. Cot? She has promised that in three years there will be the zero deficit. If you look at the budget figures and the economic forecasts, this will certainly not happen, but that is what we are used to by this Federal Government. With a budget there are always winners and losers. Among the winners is certainly the Federal Minister – perhaps so well imposed yesterday – with € 73.7 billion in tax revenue for 2012; for 2013 there will be € 76.9 billion. Who will raise this money? Who's gonna have to pay for that? Who's on the loser's side? – These are the citizens who have to bear this high tax burden – more than 43 percent! And I'm already sorry and tired when the ÖVP delegates get out of here and say every time we need a tax reduction. Who prevents you from deciding at the ÖVP Club to order your Minister of Finance, your party friend, to carry out this tax reduction in Austria at last? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who are the winners in this budget? – These are the banks, these are the speculators, these are the managers. These are the managers who all have a better income, higher gags in the chief days. Mr. Roiss of the OMV has €2.1 million. Yes, logically, if you turn on the control screw for the drivers, then the OMV makes plenty of profits, then there are good bonuses that are paid out. While the Austrians have to take a real loss due to inflation, which has less families, is less available for care, while the social weak no longer know how to rise for heating and housing and obtain food affordable due to inflation, there is a strong plus on the other hand. This is not a balanced policy, it is not a policy for Austria, and therefore, Mr Donabauer, we cannot say yes to this budget. Finally, one more thing: I personally regret this debate, too. The budget figures are now on the table, and I can tell you today that there will not be a single cent in the negotiations in the committees. No argument will be taken into account, even if it is still so credible, with data and figures supported by the opposition. That is why all that is being presented and executed by the government in the course of this budget debate is, in fact, an eye-catching – to the detriment of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14218	Mr Matznetter was mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14240	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr. Strutz is afraid of his federal state. He is doing well, because in view of what politics has done in Carinthia, this concern is more than justified. Since yesterday Mr Westenthaler also fell over President Neugebauer, because I made a replica on what is known as a real correction of Mr Petzner, only as a follow-up: If someone here calls me cowardice, if someone claims that in the protection of immunity I am here slandering Mr. Kulter, that the 2004 balance sheet has been falsified, and then falsely claims here that everything is not at all the case, then it is more than right if the President gives an opportunity to comment personally on it. The truth about this: ==References== In November 2008, Mr. Kulterer stood in front of the criminal court in 2004 and, because he was fully competent, received a fine of €140,000 and did not receive a fine. [[Abg. May. Widmann: This is not true, my colleague.]] By the way, a hint for your friends in the Kärntner state government: Sometimes it is quite convenient to be fully competent in front of the criminal court if one does not want to take out a harder punishment. [[Abg. May. Widmann: The truth will come to light!]] – Legally, therefore established. In November 2008, Mr Petzner may not have been quite so attentive, I agree with him. Just so much to the excitement, on the subject of BZÖ. But back to our topic budget here. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Then you agree to our request for an investigation committee!]] You do not need to be upset, Mrs Colleague, because the hypo alone in this year 2012 prevented us from having a budget deficit below 3%. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Municipal credit! Talk about it too!]] It is the result of this policy by you, your equal and their leadership, which all taxpayers of the country are allowed to ban. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Vote for our request!]] 1.5 billion € this year, 700 million € plus 200 million € Liability next year, so much on the subject: much less. Back to the subject of budget. Number one: We are not only one of the most successful countries in terms of unemployment and employment, we are also among the best in terms of budget data. Germany has a debt of over 80 percent, we reach a peak of 75 percent. And that you charge private debt and the economy is a real humbug, Mr. Strutz – Humbug! Because then you also have to calculate the private loans of the Austrians, but then you also have to calculate all the credits. We alone have a free fortune in finance, real estate and operating assets of €1 000 billion. There's a surplus because we're lucky to be a rich country. We're just wrong in distributing wealth, but that's what we're all about. Therefore, a small supplement to Mr Donabauer. You have pointed out something important: Not only can one make rescue packages; and the countries they get can't also be hostile to others. Only my request, my colleague: Talk to your Minister of Finance Dr. Fekter! Example Ireland: Not prepared to end the tax dumping, but to stop hand in hand for the promotions is something we as Austria cannot tolerate. That is why I ask you not only to discuss this here, but also to discuss it in your own party. There are even more such cases, such as Hungary and others. We must not allow ourselves to be offered any more to finance, to be helped and then to try to compete with the others. And I am looking forward to the support in this area. This budget is a good budget, and that this country is well managed, you can see from all the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14350	Next speaker: Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14372	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress it once again, because it has always been made ridiculous in various words today: The families are excluded from consolidation, from the savings measures. That is important – I think you can't say it often enough, ladies and gentlemen – and that is an essential concern for us. Mrs Haubner has also said, well, that is really nothing, because we have already been saved in Loipersdorf, and the families are being broken down. Mrs Kitzmüller, we are at the forefront of family benefits across Europe. And the 13th. Family aid, Mrs Haubner, has not been deleted. It will be a school starting fee in September with the family allowance – no, this is not nothing, Mrs. Kitzmüller, that is 100 € that parents of school-based children will get paid with the September family allowance. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's nothing!]] What is done in Austria in family benefits is a multiple of what is available in other countries. I believe that we can be proud of it with fug and right, and we should not be constantly small. And that's what we should say: Making things bad is not what we should do. The fact is that we do a lot for the families that we have a very, very good mix of transfers, in financial support for the families: the family allowance, an essential stand for the families in Austria, the childcare allowance with a – colleague Binder-Maier has mentioned it in her speech – the top father participation that we can be very proud of. We'll keep going. For this, around € 1 billion is invested annually. The pension contributions for mothers are also something we can all be proud of together. That is also, I believe, completely undisputed. This also costs 1 billion € per year. This also includes the deductibility of child care costs. And I would like to say one word, ladies and gentlemen: This mix of transfers, tax measures and benefits in kind is something we stand for that we are fighting for. We will continue to invest massively in the development of childcare facilities. €70 million are planned for 2013 for the free kindergarten year, for early childhood language promotion €5 million – Mrs. Korun, because you did not know it, I would like to tell you – and €15 million again next year for the extension of childcare, especially for those under three years old. That's the right way, that's a good way for the families in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14408	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hackl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14430	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Chapter Consumer Protection – This budget position has actually been more or less continued for years, only the tasks are increasing. I'd like to say a few words here: Genetic products in food, nanotechnology in food, Internet and telephone fraud – still at a relatively high level –, planned obsolescence. And I see another topic coming to us: With the electronic health record and the use of smart meters, data protection problems and complaints will certainly come. Given rising inflation and increasing poverty, the quality of food will be refocused. I mean, we've got it now. Substitutions, flavourings and similar things in our food, and the companies will certainly be creative to produce cheaper. As long as a Polish pig is slaughtered in Austria and then becomes an Austrian quality product, we will also be unable to support our farmers properly. And that's what I'm actually doing with my favorite theme, the seal of goodness, which receives young people every day. Each company now feels called to offer any quality seal or any quality guarantee in the form of a seal. I have already called for a high-quality seal of goodness several times; and Minister Hundstorfer and also the Minister of Health assured me that their drafts are fixed and ready, they are only waiting more for a meeting with the Minister of Agriculture, which simply blocks this conclusion for a high-quality seal. My good advice to the Lord Minister for Agriculture Berlakovich: Take part of your homepage millions to create a reasonable concept!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14469	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14490	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yesterday, our Minister of Finance has clearly explained the main guidelines for her financial policy: on the one hand, reforms aimed at ensuring stable finances in the long term, on the other hand offensive measures that will have a positive impact on growth. And it is very important for her to have a sparing approach to taxpayers' money. Sad handling of taxpayers' money means responsible handling, and in this context I would like to address a subject that is very important to me, namely the issue of health prevention. All the money we use for health prevention in the long term means that it is precisely that: sustainable and responsible handling of tax money. The Federal Health Commission presented the ten health targets for Austria last August. These will be implemented in the coming years. If you look at what has been formulated, this covers the whole range of health policy, and some goals are formulated in such a way that you can say: Now to ned! There are a lot of topics in which we have a very acute need for action, e.g. Objective 6, which reads as follows: Design and support healthy growth for children and young people as best as possible. However, if at the same time we take a look at the current data – keyword obesity or diabetes in children and adolescents – then it is clear: It is not five to twelve, it is at best one before twelve or even later. Or the target number 9, which is formulated in this way: Promote psychosocial health in all population groups. – That’s what you’ll say: All right! Why not? A look at the relevant statistics shows: Burnout and other mental diseases are on the rise. Burnout as a cause of illness is on and on top of it, the orthopaedic diagnosis, such as tape disc incidents or arthroses, takes place. Employees of psychosocial institutions For example, per mante reports of a sharp increase in case numbers and a direct boom in their facilities. Or target number 3: Strengthen public health competence. - No one will object to this either. The impression from my daily work in my practice shows me rather that ignorance and half-knowledge is on the rise and it requires intensive and very individual training of patients to re-evaluate misdemeanors and resulting mistreatments. And even if health lectures or similar are mostly self-runners, the visitors are mostly in the senior age, and to really change something, we already need knowledge transfer in kindergarten and school. So you could go through all ten goals now. For each of these objectives, we would say: All right, let's stress that. It's high time to deal with the subject. I am now on the point of implementation. I would just like to believe that all these concepts are not in the drawer, but are implemented in the interests of all of us, but also as a contribution to a economical and responsible handling of tax money. I am excited how, for example, the NAP movement, which is to be presented in autumn, will look out and how it will, above all, get into the width. However, if, with the help of these objectives, we achieved that the expenditure on prevention would reach the average 3 percent in the OECD comparison, this would be entirely in the sense of a sustainable use of tax money and would also be in line with the financial policy of our Minister of Finance. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14549	Next speaker: Mr Venier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14570	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With regard to yesterday's budget speech by the Minister of Finance Fekter, it must be noted that the words "youth" and "youth" are very rarely found there, all eight times, half of them in the same paragraph on employment. However, the guarantee on page 24 of a training and apprenticeship is interesting. As beautiful as the thought may be, it must be pointed out that in the 1990s a German chancellor burned his fingers with it. The best training guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, is a functioning real economy. And to create a framework for this would be the task of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of talking about new taxes and taxes, it should be remembered, in particular, that there are administrative barriers on the part of SPÖs, that tax reliefs are being rebuilt for companies, and that the youth is also a good service in terms of employment and the general employment situation. We need less and less taxes instead of more and more, and we need this especially in the area where it is very dangerous and where there is the potential for us to move expensive and well-trained professionals abroad, as we already see, where many academics and also business people emigrate to the USA, Canada, Switzerland or Australia. Those who risk this will deliberately harm our domestic economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We see ourselves exposed not only in Austria but also in Europe to increased competition, especially with the emerging Asia. These nations are doing exactly the opposite of what we are doing here in Austria and in Europe: They deregulate rather than centralize, they rely on regional decisions rather than congregate liabilities, debts and controls, and above all they do not operate rich-bashing. In Asia, with realistic eyes, the welfare state is regarded as an obstacle to development and is trying to keep it as low as possible. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: I didn't understand that now! Please again, the clarity of it!]] – I can explain this to you personally afterwards. The positive effect of this has been seen in Asia over the past 25 years by the fact that an ever-increasing proportion of the population is assured by more prosperity and more quality of life, while we have to beat around with aging, overindebtedness, even Islamization, the highest taxes, densest regulations! For all these reasons, as mentioned above, more and more university graduates and business people are immigrating. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: You claim...!]] On the contrary, it is in Europe: There we have immigration partly from non-educational layers, for example under the cover of family integration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: The red light is already shining!]] The conclusion is therefore that the combination of high taxes and an overriding welfare state is harmful. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Mr. colleague, the red light is already shining!]] The foreign exchange must therefore – and I have heard this many times on the part of the ÖVP today – be the saving, a consistent saving, while, of course, controlling and preventing corruption constitutes a large part of this package. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: In those Sparkassen!]] Very briefly: In addition to youth employment and the preservation of the financial base – as mentioned above – it is also very important to me and a great concern to point out the cultural and intellectual decline in our country. Instead of demanding more and more budget resources, focus should be placed on distance from sintering gender projects and also on preventing the leveling down of education in our education system. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Also, the gymnasia must again understand itself as elite schools, rather than, as at present, producing matura products as mass goods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] In short – my speaking time is as good as used –: It is not the unity school that meets the different gifts of our students, but rather a differentiated school system! That's what we're talking about. Heritage and identity must also continue to be given an appropriate place in education. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2013 budget, like the last time, is just an exercise of duty, a curcing at all corners and ends, without actually looking into the problems. Our consent does not find this!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14693	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14716	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After an advanced debate, many arguments can be made and some replication can be made. It is this budget debate – as it was expected – again this year that the opposition parties are overshadowing each other with criticism, making permanent proposals to make even more new things, just according to the motto “What does the world cost?” and “Wish what!” But they say – and people should know that too – that you want to finance all of this with new taxes. But what is unfortunate is that no one is really critical of the opposition with regard to the currently difficult conditions, especially the need to clean up state finances and, above all, to take the right measures to promote growth and prosperity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our concept is relatively clear: We do not want new taxes, we want a concept of stable finances through reforms, and we do not want to compromise, in addition to a reasonable savings, offensive measures that do not endanger growth and prosperity. Our path is a reliable budgetary course, which puts the emphasis on generation-righteousness, namely to consolidate state finances and to give the next generation scope, but also through offensive measures to strengthen the future viability of our country, so that prosperity can also be secured in the future. In addition to generation justice, however, we also rely very, very strongly on performance justice. We set impulses there again and again to relieve those in society who carry our system and ensure our prosperity every day. It is our greatest task here to ensure that the funds are used as efficiently as possible through reforms, and that the funds, especially in the social field, also come to the people they really need and to stop social abuse. I think that with the new budgetary law, the impact orientation will give us additional opportunities to use the funds more targeted and efficient. The transparency database adopted yesterday is also an important step. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, let me also lose a sentence on the impossible ads of the Greens in the regional newspapers today. I was called yesterday by a Member of the Green Upper Austria. He was very angry on the phone because he had learned about it during a club meeting, and was terribly angry about this action. Today he writes an e-mail to me: No Hints: Well, at least I called you in advance and personally informed you. I think personal shakes, no matter what party they go out of, don't get well in the population. - Quote. The population will turn to these shakes. Shame on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14786	The next speaker was Mr Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14808	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As a representative of the youth, I am one of the young people in the round, and for three reasons this budget will be given my full support. First: It brings us one step closer to our goal of achieving a balanced budget in 2016. [[Abg. Singer: Stop the shame!]] For us young people in particular, it is important that Austria stop making debts and prepare to repay its debts. Every cent with which we make new debts actually restricts action in the future. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] Secondly, Despite the savings, the budget provides for investment for the future. Even though consolidation and the idea of savings are in the foreground, a budget also needs investment in the future. [[Abg. Singer: How's that going?]] Only these investments will enable us to find new design opportunities for young people. It is also very important for us and for me, however, that we live in a country where young people receive good training, so that intact opportunities for a job and an opportunity to build up a life are guaranteed. This budget is exactly like this: more money for research and development, more money for education and more money for labour market policy. Let me also say – this is also important to me as an apprentice speaker and as a representative of the whole boy – that our vocational training system as an example of the importance and necessity of these investments was a very important area in the budget speech of our Mrs. Maria Fekter. You can't do that so lapidar, to say: It has only been mentioned eight times the youth. – Let’s be glad she’s been mentioned! [[Abg. Singer: Ah eh!]] Let's be glad we're looking into the future! The opposition is always a little difficult. On the one hand too little is saved for you, on the other hand you want to spend more. But this is true of the Austrian opposition, unfortunately, of God in these times very often: You are neither constructive nor destructive, you are a little in between. That's too little, I'm sorry! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But on my third and most important point: no new taxes either! It is not an easy task to save while at the same time setting specific emphasis on investment. It is thanks to our Mrs. Dr. Maria Fekter and to the government team – and we must also congratulate them – that the budget in turn has managed not to spend much more on the one hand, but also to make the right investments on the other, and that it has also succeeded in not introducing mass taxes and no taxes that will again take the future of young people. That is why I say that we are on the right path: on the way to a balanced budget, on the way to more growth, that is, on the way to a good future!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14885	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Windy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14909	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, [[Calls and calls between Abg. Singers and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yesterday, the opposition presented the budget of Mrs Fekter and, of course, deliberately misinterpreted: It is assumed that milk and honey will flow from next year in this Austria. – Of course the Humbug is! But it is very likely that something has flown into this budget, namely a lot of heart blood and also a lot of home mind. There has been a good mix between meaningful savings on the one hand, but also conscious investments and growth impulses. Yesterday, too, there has been a fine dispute about who is to blame for the high debt, who is partly guilty or who can get out of this debate. That's all legitimate, but I think people expect us to look to the future, the active design: We should take control of the future ourselves. It was also the subject of the debate that we had lived on the conditions. – I can tell you you don’t need to study here, but only the house mind: Whoever spends more continuously than he takes, he simply lives over his conditions! And to cover this sum that is spent more, there are only two ways: either to scrape the family silver or to make more debts, to live on the substance. [[Abg. Singer: Or new revenue!]] All of this is not sustainable, even for the future and unique! I think we are responsible here to show more responsibility for the future and perhaps to show a little less egoism for the present. That is why we also need the courage to say the truth and courage for reforms. I would like to give you this late evening a picture with you home, maybe for the evening if you already have it a little more pleasant. Our Austria is a beautiful country with many forests, and there are also reforestations. Those who plant the small plants, whether they are spruce or fir, do so in full awareness of the costs, work and fees that they will never have anything of it. Not even the children, not even the grandchildren, but only after 80 to 100 years the great-grandchildren will have some of it. – I think we also need this approach, this far-sighted approach, this responsibility, this cross-generational action and these considerations. I think we made the turnaround: We forecast a primary surplus for the first time next year. That means we're just running in the black numbers in time. It is the interest and the burden of it that push us down into the minus area, into the red area. It is therefore quite clear that this budget path must be continued very consistently, that we also need to reduce debt in order to reduce the interest burden so that in the future we can get back air to breathing and more freedom of action.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14949	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e14971	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Finance Dr. Maria Fekter and some of my previous speakers have already mentioned it: If we want to and create long-term stability, three key points are important: budgetary discipline, structural reforms, and offensive measures. I would like to address the last one, a measure that I personally feel is very important and creates the essential conditions especially for young, innovative and emerging companies in our country. The fact that the Austrian economy has cut off relatively well in the crisis is mainly due to the stability of our small and medium-sized enterprises. Our founding figures, on the other hand, have remained at the same level since 2000. In 2011, it was around 28 000 who dared to take the step into self-employment, who were also standing on stable legs all the way, but for which it was certainly not a simple step. The least business is about simply being a businessman, but it's about your own idea, about developing a specific product or service, realizing it, establishing it on the market, and being successful. But especially the start-up phase, financing is often an insurmountable obstacle in our economically difficult times – a barrier to invention, innovation and also to potential ideas to establish themselves on the market. The Young Entrepreneur offensive is designed to counter this and create the framework conditions for our young entrepreneurs, on the one hand with the Founder Fund, on the other hand with the Business Angel Fund. An investment volume of € 110 million will be created. The Founder Fund is a venture capital financing targeting precisely the founding and expansion phase. The Business Angel Fund doubles every euro paid and aims to further expand the need for know-how and networks. Finally, I would like to say that many creative and innovative ideas are slumbering in Austria, which, because of lack of funding, are in part difficult to create on the national and international markets. But it is with this offensive that we can help those people break through.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15013	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stefan. 5 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15045	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and perhaps also on TV screens! We have heard a lot now: Growth, prosperity, thoughtful measures, sparingness, and it is primarily for the EIA to relieve those who wear the system. These are all very nice approaches, that all sounds very good. But let us look at a very concrete measure, which is in Parliament here for consideration. I am now talking about the registration fee in the basic book. That sounds very dry, but the fact is that this fee was increased by 10 percent a year ago and now there is a law that increases the basic book registration fee for gifts between 300 and 1,000 percent! [[Abg. I can't believe it.]] This must be broken on the tongue: This is a proposal from the government parties on how to increase the basic registration fee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is, of course, the introduction of the inheritance and gift tax through the back door! Because this is true in the case of donations, and this is true in the case of inheritances of properties. That is, we now have a fee which, as has been said, is 300 to 1,000 times higher than the previous one. What does that mean by the way? - A huge administrative explosion! So far, this fee is usually calculated by contractors, lawyers and notaries themselves: 1.1 percent of a value that is set is easy to calculate. In the future, the basis of assessment is the so-called transport value. Who knows what the value of his own property is? – You may have an idea somewhere, but if you need to certify this, it will be difficult. And that's what everyone who's supposed to pay this fee has to do: He's got to prove it! A complete legal uncertainty on the one hand – and on the other hand, on the other hand, a cost officer at the court has to examine this and determine whether it is correct, in any event, it has to make it clear that it will then be sent back to the person reporting it must ask him to certify it even further in order to require a different fee at all times. You have to imagine this in the case of 170 000 transactions in Austria each year, which have so far been carried out by self-calculation, without any involvement of an official in court. All of them must now be examined individually, very effectively, as I have just said. Because where is the cost officer supposed to know the transport value at all? – This is an official in court who has no special knowledge on this subject. An incredible nonsense, an incredible puss – these are the concrete measures that lie here in Parliament! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is an insurmountable legal uncertainty, as the “standard” has noted today. The overrun is then the transitional provisions laid down here in this law, which is still under review. This is formulated in such a way that it is in itself applicable to gifts that are still taking place in October, although this law is likely to be passed at the end of December. That means: If, for example, a fee is calculated completely legally by the lawyer/notar himself in November – he can't do it otherwise at that time – then it can be if that becomes the law as it is now proposed that this be from 1. January is withdrawn retroactively and no longer valid! Skill You think of something like that? – The client comes to you and can charge the fee. You can only calculate it to him as it is valid today, but you must tell him: It may be, however, that the cost officer will give you on 5 May. Januaryen writes a letter and says I'm sorry, this has been calculated on the basis of the triple unit value, but now we have the traffic value, now you have to pay 300 or up to 1,000 percent more. – An absolute madness! And these are the concrete measures. That is why I find it very difficult to listen to all these Sunday speeches here – with leave. Because once it becomes concrete – and it's actually a little thing, but it concerns a lot of people. These are also often the service providers who have saved a property and now want to transfer it to their future heirs, who may want to predominate the inheritance, or just want to inherit it. It's the one that hits. For those who have properties in capital companies, those who may have this to a large extent, do not. There is no registration in the basic book, because the shares or shares are sold. But those who are personal owners are private owners who meet it. So: Stop the Sunday speeches! Take your nose! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] This law can still be changed. And if you look at exactly what you really are doing here – I am very glad that most of the government parties here are silent – then you can only see what is actually going on.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15102	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Grastaur has been made available to the honourable Member, with a second speech. If desired, 5 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15124	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry I'm gonna stop you for a few minutes, but with so much hypocrisy I've had to hear from the ÖVP delegates here at the speaker's desk and with so much self-loaf that almost smells, I have to report again. It's just an insanity what was said here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We, at least we liberals, have not criticized this beautiful country of Austria, I would like to say that clearly. We have not criticized the people who work here and are skilled. However, we have criticized the mismanagement of this government by Social Democrats and People's Party, and we must criticize that! If we are talking about stable finances and reforms here, I have to say that totally advocacy. The exact opposite is the case! We take care of our good and beautiful land. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are concerned about our youth, because the youth has to sort out what you're doing here. I can remind you that each one of us, and above all the youth, has 30 000 euros in debt on his bubbling, and they have to be handled sometime. I am also surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that the government fractions against this missing financial policy, which is being run here, are making the wall. It would be our duty, as a Member of Parliament, to ensure that the economy is more reasonable and decent. But exactly the opposite is the case, and you are walling. I just can't understand. The ÖVP always speaks hypocritically of the things that need to be made, and anyone is always the evil one, so that it does not bring it together. In the countries where you really have the command, you have long had the opportunity to change things! [[Call the FPÖ:Wohl!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Oberösterreich!]] I would like to remind you, dear friend, that a decision has just been made in Upper Austria last week, which no one understands: The ÖVP wants a third Spag Board to be appointed, although no one needs it. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] €180 000 in times when we are all stopped to save at hospitals or in health where it goes. You're doing the exact opposite. In order to know that we have very good proposals, I would like to bring you some real proposals for reform. Of course, you would have to cut into the black and red administrative bacon that has been built for years. First point: Education as an example. The cost of a compulsory student in Finland is €46 000. In Austria, ladies and gentlemen, the same student costs €71 000 – with the difference that the Finns are in the Pisa ranking on top, top, and we are far away. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] So what about these differences that are there?- Oh, my God! The money remains in the administration. That's where we have to sit! That would be a big reform! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Upper Austria!]] [[Abg. Strache: Education policy experiment!]] Second point: Health care. The OECD section of costs: 8.8% of GDP. In Austria: 10.2 percent of GDP. Difference: €4 billion. That'd be to get right away! Funding – I always say promotion indistinct. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schick-hofer.]] Here we are, this is known, European subsidisation champion. We need 5.6 percent of GDP for the gifts that are distributed so generously, three, four and five times. On average, the EU consumes 2.6%. So there are reserves from € 5 to 7 billion. The pensions are printed around: We need to slow down a little; we have to do something! - We need to talk plain text. We cannot afford to have our fellow citizens retired at 59 years of age. We need to see that we arrive at 65 years. A year later in pension costs more than € 1 billion less for the state bag. But if nothing happens, ladies and gentlemen, then in 2060 we will not need €8 billion for support, but €28 billion – priceless! I would also like to make a few points on the so-called justice of the SPÖ. That's gonna be big, right now. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Is it really fair if the municipality of Vienna these days sends 480 officials with an average age of 53 years to the pension, while the Voest workers definitely have to go to work up to 60 years? Is that really fair? [[Abg. Keck: That's not true!]] Is it fair that Maroden Pleite States will be thrown down billions of euros, while our pensioners will be burdened with €7 billion by 2016? Is that fair? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Is it fair, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that the managers who do crap – in the area of ÖBB, in the area of Skylink, in the area of AUA and so on – are passed with Golden Handshakes, receive large million amounts of waste, while at the municipality of Vienna the gas charges are increased by 50 percent, the water charges by 33 percent, the electricity charges by 20 percent and the rates of the Vienna lines by 20 percent? [[Abg. Riepl: Get cheaper!]] In addition, the Parkpickerl, which is to be found. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a scandal, nothing else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to make a proposal to you. In the private sector, we would regulate this: We all know where it has us. The analyses are all on the table. There's the Wifo, there's IHS studies, there's the Convention. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Things are all clear. This means making a medium- or long-term rehabilitation concept. Because we have to reduce our debt – now 90 percent of GDP – to 60 percent by 2020, Mrs Bundesminister always says. This is not possible, however, because 100 billion euros of debt would have to be cut. So it'll take longer. We have to do this. Otherwise, the troika will soon also come to us, ladies and gentlemen, then it will also control us. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15282	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with the 1910 Government document of the Supplements to the Budget Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:48:40]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15315	We are now negotiating the request made by Mr Petzner, colleagues and colleagues to set up an investigation committee on the emergency nationalisation of Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank, municipal credit Austria AG and Österreichischer Volksbanken-AG (ÖVAG). This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15382	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by ministers of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15433	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to start with the words of Mr Otto Pendl, first of all, with my explanation of the request in accordance with § 33 GOG for the establishment of an investigation committee on the emergency nationalisation of hypo, municipal credit and Austrian Volksbanken AG. It, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, always says the hypo scandal is a Carinthian scandal, is a Haider scandal. – Quote Pendl. [[Abg. Riepl: Sure!]] – They shout: Sure! Therefore I may invite you, in the sense of Otto Pendl, who always invites: My rulings, we set up this investigation committee together and we clarify together who actually bears the responsibility for the pleite and the emergency nationalization of these three banks! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] We have had a raw report or a final report from the Court of Auditors since yesterday, stating that the need for nationalisation of local credit was not only not necessary, but that it was not even examined. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This means that billions are spent without the competent authorities in the Ministry of Finance examining the whole. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] The same has happened in the emergency stateization of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. In the course of years of research, I have been given a note from the Ministry of Finance, where exactly the same thing is inside where the Ministry of Finance itself says: [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] We have not examined the causes, the need and the background of this emergency nationalization before the emergency. You have to imagine this: Billions of Austrian tax money are plyed without even checking the need! The same applies to the third subject, which I propose, namely the Austrian Volksbanken-AG. I should like to ask Mr Matznetter to listen very carefully, because now I am quoting someone whom he personally knows very well, namely the former Finance Minister of the SPÖ and now Deputy Supervisory Board Chairman of FIMBAG, who, for example, says about the hypo-notification: [[Abg. Grain Duration: Matznetter is not there!]] Androsch says that the hypo-notification has taken place “in the blind flight in the fog without radar”. To the emergency stateization of the Österreichische Volksbanken-AG, Androsch says that this was half a solution, since client policy had been pursued. – Let us clarify together what Androsch means by this client policy for the Black Volksbanken-AG! He says the same about the municipal credit – even there you have not checked. Mr Matznetter! – Now he's not here, he'll know why. Because now the SPÖ will certainly have the argument. What does your own ex-finance minister Androsch say about the Carinthian country liability? What does he say about it? – Col. Cap, do not type in the phone and write any text messages to Faymann, why the party day has gone wrong, but listen! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr. Androsch says on 7 October. June 2011 literally about the country's country's liabilities: "The liability is inappropriately high for the budget power of Carinthia. But that's more of a formal liability." The real liability of the country of Carinthia is € 5 to 6 billion. – This is what the former Finance Minister Androsch says. That means we're far away from these 20 billion euros that you always claim. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: is Carinthia pleading! That's more than an annual revenue!]] What is the point of this Committee of Inquiry? On point one, I should like to mention very specifically the backgrounds, on the basis of an opinion I have taken: Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite concrete here that the emergency stateization of the Hypo Alpe-Adria took place in 2009 through the conscious withdrawal of capital in advance, namely in the interaction of the Free State of Bavaria with the institutions of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the Bavarian Land Bank and the responsibilities of the Republic of Austria, first of all the former Minister of Finance Josef Pröll. I'm going to prove this exactly then. In other words, One has done nothing but deliberately, consciously and negligently send a bank into bankruptcy. That's what happens on the basis of our study. I have an opinion here – that is in these two folders – that is, an account of Fritz Kleiner for more than 700 pages, which the Ministry of Finance has been deliberately shut down for months, because in this opinion there are very serious and very unpleasant things in it for the ÖVP. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and also of the Greens – Mr Holub always claims that we had deceived Bavaria. First he claimed that we sold too cheap, then too expensive. What does Kleiner say in his opinion? – He says: The Bavaria knew what they were buying. They have acquired this bank in full awareness of the risk. Quote Small: The Bavaria wanted to buy the buy, no matter what is. The Bavaria wanted the bank, cost it what it wanted. - Quote. In 2007! And now I'm inviting you to go on a time trip with me. That is, the Bavaria buy this bank in 2007 and then do what in 2007 – Mr. Krainer – until 2009? - That's what Kleiner says. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] Listen to me now! In his opinion, Kleiner says, which, once again, the Ministry of Finance is probably shut down, about the growth rate of the BayernLB, quote Kleiner on page 29: "The growth rate will continue unchanged, although it will continue in the 81. ==References====External links== 12. 2007 is discussed as problematic.” () “Up to the fourth quarter of 2008 the growth rate has been maintained, although the too optimistically adopted plan values have already been observed at this meeting of 17. ==References====External links== - That's what Kleiner says in his opinion. That is, the Bavaria bought the bank, knew what they were buying, then full gas rose to the growth: Full gas on growth rate, says Kleiner. And then the next thing happens in 2008 – and then we take the next step, Mr. Krainer, in the timeline. What happened in 2008? – In 2008, it was hoped that this growth rate would go wrong and that the bank would be in the mischievous, the bank, which has been in German majority ownership since 2007. What does an article say here? – This is only in German newspapers, in no Austrian, unfortunately God. – What do the German newspapers write about the BayernLB's responsibility? Quote from an article of the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” of 14. August: “A review shows only now: The BayernLB has repeatedly supported its famished daughter Hypo Alpe Adria with large loans before the 2008 Landtag election.” – Quotes. And then this article argues why this happened and it is quoted from the Bavarian Landtag Examining Committee: According to the investigation report, the flow of money from the BayernLB at its subsidiary bank in Austria began on 20 July. ==References== A week earlier, the Landesbank had taken billions of risks in real estate bonds from the USA, which was politically devastating for Minister of Finance Huber – CSU. He could not afford further trouble” – and the CSU“. The financial assistance from Bavaria for the Hypo Alpe Adria ended in October 2008, after the country election and before Huber gave up his offices because of the Landesbank Debakel (). Huber was one of the top two candidates of his party before the country election. It is therefore suspected that only for this reason these billions were put in to cover up this scandal before the 2008 Bavarian country election. That's what the Bayern did! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Then it goes on in the timeline, colleague Krainer, then they sent the bank into bankruptcy. On Friday, 11th. December 2009, the BayernLB removed €1.1 billion from this bank. On Monday, 14th. December, they were not nationalized. And the BayernLB has a further €500 million. ==References====External links== [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you know what this is, Mr. Krainer? Do you know what this is as a financial lawyer? – This is negligent Krida! That's a criminal act! That's unfaithful! And the Austrian People's Party and Finance Minister Pröll have played this infidelity! We can prove and prove this, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Smaller says himself in his opinion – the Black Ministry of Finance is tasking little ones with an opinion that notes what in this opinion? –: that at a Supervisory Board meeting already in December 2008, a year before the emergency nationalization, it was decided on the Bavarian Board of Directors to send the hypo into bankruptcy. And there are the reports of the “profile” that in the summer of 2009 Bavarian CSU politicians informed Austrian ÖVP politicians that the bank is being sent into bankruptcy. And then the game started. The bank was sent into bankruptcy at the expense of the Austrian taxpayer, without information to the Supervisory Board. An infringement of § 255 share law is that! Mr Pinkl will still be responsible for this. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] And today you blame the country of Kärnten, the deceased head of state Haider and the BZÖ and the FPÖ for a mismanagement by the German bank owners who are the finance minister Pröll, who are responsible for the German CSU politicians. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Hypo Alpe-Adria is really a scandal, the biggest red and black financial scandal of the last decades, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15571	Mr Petzner, we've been a little bit over time now! That was a final sentence, I'd say. [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr Petzner, there is a Rules of Procedure. You overlaid for a minute, I allowed that. I think that's all right. [[In the case of BZÖ and FPÖ, please take a look at the box leaving the speaker's desk. Petzner.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Lipitsch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Petzner, when I looked at your appearance now, it happened to me this way: A committee of inquiry is no longer there, and we need a playground to present ourselves. I would like to comment briefly on the following: Today in summer, you have announced a great deal: The bomb's bursting in Klagenfurt! I'm still waiting for the detonation today, I'm saying that right here. This has never occurred. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The bomb is the name of the emperor, and it will still burst!]] Let's stick to the topic of Hypo Alpe-Adria. I would like to point out that the causes have been examined. Clearly, it was a self-service shop for the head of state and his environment, it was prestige projects that were financed by the country, and for that it was actually nothing too expensive. Hotel projects, Styrian Spirit, where you have received some kind of hall as a small counterpart from Mr. Stronach. [[Abg. Petzner: Let's clear this up!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's all for an investigation committee!]] I am speaking today, Mr Bucher, about not getting rid of the dead. Let us go on to say that the court procedure clearly and clearly shows who is responsible. I have listed the 520 pages minutes of the Green and SPÖ Examining Committee, if you want to know what's inside, point by point, hair. They were all questioned. It has already been said clearly and clearly today: In 2004 it started to distort the balance sheet. There are statements in court proceedings that back dating of swap operations has taken place directly in the Chairperson's office. The Austrian National Bank identified shortcomings in 2001, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. There the land was subject to oversight, and nothing happened. The FMA has clearly established that a separation of market and market order is to be carried out. Nothing's done! If you look at the protocols of the state government, you can see very well that the supervisory bodies have been exchanged in the monthly period. If someone didn't trace, he'd be outside. You just need to look at the protocols. The country's supervision has failed. You've got to say that straight and clear. Only after nationalization has this been implemented and the shortcomings in the credit system have been corrected. And now we come to speak to the emergency state. I remember very well that there was an interview with Uwe Scheuch in the “ZiB 2” in which he said: If we no longer know, then the Republic will probably take the hypo – and that was the case. Considering that this emergency nationalization was fixed and finished one hour before the time when the bank could no longer be locked up, you have to ask what that would mean. What would it mean for the customers, for the saver, for the companies if this bank had been locked up? Then we'd have a run on the banks, not just that. At that time, the country was held liable with over €20 billion. Mr Petzner has now spoken of €5 to €6 billion. This too is still the triple of the national budget of the country of Carinthia. At €20 billion, it's tenfold. I'm just saying, you know, straight and clear. If that were to be done – Mr Strutz, I will come to speak on your role. – we would only have had more ramsh status. In 17 hours of negotiations, it was decided that it was necessary to take over the bank. In retrospect, you've always failed. Maybe we could have done something or something?- Oh, my God! – Dear colleague Strutz, you know, with us we say: Afterwards, the old Urschl rides, because in retrospect you can always know everything better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At that time, however, peace came into the banking landscape. I say it very clearly and clearly, and as an example of the investment of Tilo Berlin, I take this “Kreis-verkehr”: 150 million € he has spent with his investors within the shortest time. And one must also say that we want the money back there. The following, if you say you want something back: You are against capital taxes, because you do not want it back! I would like to add that it is important that there be judicial judgments, because it can then be derived from liability. Birnbacher, Martinz and the board of directors are currently condemned, others will still stand in court, and I know it is in 49. Meeting of the Supervisory Board of the Hypo by SPÖ gave a clear no to the €6 million for Birnbacher. I would just like to mention this briefly, because you mentioned that too. [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] ==References== The meeting was decided this fee of €6 million then, and I think I know who the Supervisory Board Chairman was, who led the meeting at the time. Mr Strutz, you can explain this to us afterwards, because you were the Chairman of the Supervisory Board who decided to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15707	Mr Lipitsch, a short conclusion!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15722	Final sentence: In one point, Mr Petzner is right: He once said that the sun fell from heaven in Carinthia. - I'll give it to him. It was a dark time for Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15750	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvo. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15771	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to confess first, I am not a Carinthian, and I have no intimate knowledge of the Carinthian conditions at all, but I have a lot of human understanding for my colleague Petzner. We have ended today's investigation committee on corruption. [[Abg. Strache: You took him away!]] We discussed the results earlier. One thing has not been mentioned: The Committee of Inquiry has greatly increased the awareness of Mr Petzner. Whether negative or positive, everyone may judge himself, but of course he would like to have another committee of inquiry if he followed the end of one committee today immediately tomorrow. Mr Petzner would like to stay at the ball, of course. I have a great understanding of this, ladies and gentlemen, but the proposal does not just aim at the hypo, the request is: Emergency nationalisation of the mortgage, emergency nationalisation of local credit and subnationalisation of the Volksbank. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say this for my person and also for my party: We are the last to be nationalized. We are the government party that has done everything in the direction of privatisation in the last 15 years with the respective government partner. So it was not nationalized from jux and tollery, but this measure was taken in an emergency situation. [[Abg. Strache: You have helped with tax money before elections to cover up a CSU scandal!]] Let me also say the following: Once, 15 years ago, I experienced such a situation in my Waldviertel constituency; Mr Ikrath, Secretary General of the Sparkassenverband, was then a witness. There the newspaper “The Press” spread the rumor that Waldviertler Sparkasse of 1842 was pleading. The next day, the switches were stormed, people snakes in front of the savings bank. We had to say quickly on television that everything was secure and that people don't need to be afraid. There are decisions to be taken quickly: On the same day, Director-General Treichl and the Savings Managers were all brought up and asked themselves what they could do to stop this rumor. It was stopped: through the help of all savings banks. If one says that there should have been studies which alternatives exist, it is lost that in such situations it is about days, even hours, that one must act quickly. Subsequent to say after months: Yes, this and that I would have done differently!, pass the needs. Mr Petzner, you are quoting the Court of Auditors report. I agree with you that we have a Committee on the Court of Auditors. That's where the chairman sits, Mag. Kogler. We will discuss the report very intensively in the Audit Committee, no question at all. However, that you prefer a committee of inquiry that you prefer to have a political spectacle, I am absolutely clear. Mr Petzner, if you now have withdrawals, this is not yet a reason for the setting up of the next committee of inquiry, because: This is about seriality, because it is a matter of discretion, it is about the rule of law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's not the point of whether any of us have any of our prophylaxis. I understand that human beings, but that can't be the subject. It is about the Court of Auditors. I'm with my colleague Mag today. Kogler spoke. This will be discussed in detail at one of the next meetings. It is not a question of criminalising immediately, ending a committee and re-establishing the next one. Mr Petzner, once again: human understanding, yes. – You may have withdrawals if there is no investigation committee, but this is really about serious issues. We will discuss these in great detail in the Court of Auditors but will not be criminalised by another committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15833	Mr. Dr. I'm talking about it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15860	Mr President. If the SPÖ has calmed down, I will address the questions raised by Mr Lipitsch and asked Mr Matznetter for his reply. First of all, I have no need for explanation. Listen to me carefully! Don't make any calls! Then we will support this on the basis of facts. We liberals are in favour of using this committee of inquiry. All the accusations, including your accusations towards my person, now raised by Mr Lipitsch, all things are clarified. Please vote To this committee of inquiry! We're very interested in it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I understand that the SPÖ is taking a little distance from it. I didn't want to be personal today. Since I was personally addressed, I'm just saying: Gusenbauer! Do you know the role of Mr Gusenbauer in the hypo? – Gusenbauer was a consultant, who collected a fee: 90,000 €. [[Abg. Strache: Gusenbauer even intervened with me once!]] We have been presented in the Supervisory Board. Do you remember Mr Gusenbauer? Do you know what a performance it was at the hypo? – We want to clarify this in the Committee of Inquiry. Do you remember Mr. Staribacher? Do you know who Mr Staribacher is at SPÖ? Does he have anything to do with the hypo? Do you know he checked the hypo, Mr. Matznetter? You know he stamped on it: “All right!”? Further: Do you know Ferdinand Lacina? - I'll stop it. Mr Lacina was sitting in the Supervisory Board, lobbying for a bank that should have received an order. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To my person: Mr Lipitsch, I have the chairmanship in the Supervisory Board in 51. Parliament adopted a resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, Mr Birnbacher's fee has not been decided there because the Supervisory Board – which will give you a bit of remedial assistance – cannot intervene in the operational business at all, but there has been a report from the Board of Directors in which the fee note has been informed, and this report has been taken note of. There was definitely no decision. Now, because we Carinthians are really satisfied that we always have to make excuses for the lack of the federal financial policy. The Carinthians did not go into the abyss, and the Austrian taxpayers have to pay for it. The truth is – and now beware, dear comrades! – that the Bavarian Landesbank has driven the hypo into the abyss, because Carinthia had nothing to do with this bank at the time of nationalization in the operational field. Since 2007, BayernLB has been the main owner of the bank. And it's about this period of time. It is about the period 2007 to now and to the nationalization. The Carinthians held 12 percent and thus had no rights. After the purchase of the hypo in May 2007 – Mr Petzner has already carried it out – despite the global financial crisis, the BayernLB has driven a massively risky growth rate and increased the balance sheet amount to €43.3 billion. Only by this has in reality – as the opinions also prove – come to these problems. Read this in the “profile”! A few days before the nationalization took place, precisely the week before this nationalization in December 2009, the Bayern removed €1.7 billion from the mortgage in liquidity. 1.7 billion €! And the covenant was informed of this course. And by doing so, nationalization actually became inevitable. The Federation has tolerated this BayernLB approach, covered it, and played it. These are the facts that we want to clarify. And these are the facts you can't ignore either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why: Look Take a look at the purchase contract, look at the secret purchase contract, a 12-page document, read in the “profile” one more detail! [[Abg. Großruck: What does that mean “secret ”?]] Well, it stands “secret” on it, and only through an indiscretion has this power come out. In reality, as a strategic partner, Bavaria has in writing guaranteed that in the event of bottlenecks, it will always take appropriate capital measures and will provide the bank with sufficient equity. However, their actual course of action is diametrically opposed to what they have explained in writing. Already in 2009 it started with a large portfolio depreciation and corresponding positions. The Hypo Alpe-Adria bank has been gradually made a recovery case. And in late 2009, the BayernLB deprived Hypo Alpe-Adria liquidity of €1.1 billion and thus actually increased this critical situation. Only three days before the nationalization, these measures have come to pass! [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] We can prove that the Federation has been informed about this procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15934	My colleague, the final point.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15949	Final sentence: Above all, the Republic of Austria waives all claims against Bavaria. This means that any guarantees, guarantees and liability arising from the sale of shares are expressly excluded according to the contract. That is to say, the BayernLB has deducted liquidity in a difficult situation, shockingly weakened the hypo, the Austrian Federal Government has played along and is now in fact liable to the Austrian taxpayers for this mismanagement of the Finance Minister Pröll.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e15983	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16004	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to get some things right here. First of all, on the comments of Mr Dr. Stummful, who here again made a wonderful – either serious remark or Freud’s miscarriage, depending on – by saying: Mr Petzner is poor and deserves his compassion – according to his words – because with today's day corruption has ended. Look! And that is the thinking world of the ÖVP – still. I'm sorry! [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The day – and this is what we are going to talk about today, so that is what is happening, and there is some justification for the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry by Mr Petzner – one really has to let it happen again, and I will make the connections here. Mr President, it is foolish that it is coming so far that you are already investigating and indirectly fighting the persecution committee, the corruption committee, and the fight against it, with the end of corruption, which makes you look deep. [[It is in favour of the Greens and of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have spoken in my capacity as chairman of the Court of Auditors, and it is also right that you have referred to me very briefly. – Yes, you and the House can be helped: It's agreed that we're on 28. In November, the Court of Auditors reports – by the way, several – on banking packages. There is now also a separate report – which is only for guidance to those who have not looked at all the documents themselves – to the so-called emergency nationalization – so-called in fact – of the municipal credit. The original report goes back – also interestingly – to a unanimous decision here in the house that the entire bank package, namely the execution, the executive, is not our law. Unanimously. Why? - Because we negotiated that with him at the time. So, and now the House should actually – thank you, Dr. stupid – deal with taking this test report seriously. Thank you for the call, and I'll make a proposal. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] It will not be possible to keep up with the fact that, in the face of a number of future problems, the Minister of Finance will finally be comfortable with the Committee's report. We will now create an information list. I have at least one proposal, namely the gentlemen of the FIMBAG, that glorious institution that you have occupied again red-black and where you do not know what the money for it is for – only one knows of the Court of Auditors: They do not carry out their control tasks. It's not being checked. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] This is contrary to our law that we have decided here. The bank package was half fine, and it was unanimous, and that's why we can't hold this confusion – obviously an intentional one of you – any longer. We have a viable law, four laws, a bank package in which there is a need to impose on managers salaries, at the bonuses that the small and medium-sized enterprises get loans. The FIMBAG has been specially installed to control this in representation of the Ministry of Finance, and now we have a 100-page auditing court report, where at the heart of it is that all this has not happened. Well, that's not going to be any shorter, it's going to be a long Court of Auditors committee. It was just exemplary now. It is the least known here – because all of this is so crystallized, thinking when it comes to control – that this is the only preliminary advisory committee that can be made public – by a majority, not out of itself, but by majority decision in the committee. I have already announced the request and I already see many hopeful faces that this Committee of the Court of Auditors should be kept public, that the information needs to be heard publicly there. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. But there are factions that have something to cover up again!]] These are the Federal Minister and the gentlemen of FIMBAG and some others. It'll take a little time. All know, however, that the Court of Auditors is not a committee of inquiry, and the Member of Parliament is quite right here with his views. It has to be clarified, but even further behind. I can only go through this once. The chronology at the hypo, because it is now at the center, is of course another and worthy of information, so we would need the investigation committee. There was the swap scandal and the losses in 2004. There have been criminal machinations – whoever is responsible – where the hypo has been cleared out of the money under the butt, especially with Balkan transactions. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There has been a shift over Liechtenstein, that's all clear. It may have been a self-service shop for national policy, and if the BZÖ itself wants to clarify this, you will not oppose it! That would be funny. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mr Graf, I would ask you to have the same right to act in the culture of the conclusions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] The whole advertisement action you so regret would have been made in 2007, when you turned off the Banking Investigation Committee, with the same arguments. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We also pointed out the hypo at the time, and it is only right and fair to inform people about how you behave. We might have saved millions and billions. I do not want to admit, to what extent the red and black German government, with this emergency stateization, has made the whole even worse. This suspicion is increasingly hardening.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16093	That was a nice closing point now. [[Cheerfulness and applause in the case of greens, FPÖ and BZÖ for the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16130	In the first place, I should like to thank my group for providing me with further speaking time so that I can explain this time series, this chronology because I am very important that this is understood. I can only say one sentence in the direction of SPÖ and ÖVP: If you do not agree with this request for an investigation committee today, I tell you, in this House you will never take the word Hypo Alpe-Adria into your mouth again! Never again! [[In the case of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I can now continue with the time sequence, with the chronology: We know that in 2007 the BayernLB, in full knowledge of which bank it buys, took over the majority at the hypo. That is, since 2007 this mortgage has been a German bank, not a Kärntner Landesbank, a bank in German majority ownership. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Then Kleiner further notes in his opinion that from 2007 to 2009, into the fourth quarter, 2008, a growth rate was driven with full risk. Then Kleiner says in his opinion, I can quote it, on page 566: According to Kurt Fahrenshon, then Bavarian Prime Minister for Finance, was a medium-term perspective at the Board of Directors meeting on 29.11.2008 – November 2008! – decided to separate from the HGAA – the Hypo Group Alpe Adria – and to give up the Eastern Europe strategy. And continue on page 567: The capital increase in HGAA at the end of 2008 was only on the ground that the Republic of Austria had not signed any participation capital. In good German: The Bayern laid us on the cross and still got tax money from our bank package. And Kleiner lists exactly – what Mr. Strutz has also mentioned – that between the 20th century and the 20th century. ==References== A total of 5 billion Bavarian capital has been pumped into the hypo on October 2008, because one has already known that the growth strategy of Bavaria has failed; but because one did not want scandal before the Bavarian country election, one has delayed it. [[Abg. That's right! Then the CSU's pomp came to the aid! Then the Finance Minister Pröll of the CSU and his party friends in Bavaria came to the aid!]] Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how much interest the Austrian taxpayer pays on these loans to date? – To date, the Austrian taxpayer pays €150 million of tax money to the German responsible for the pleite per year. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Thank you, Pröll!]] Thank you, Josef Pröll. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That is, in November 2008 – that is what Kleiner says in his opinion – the Bavaria decided to leave. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] [[Abg. Street: Pröll's defenseman is sitting back there: Mr. Jarolim!]] This is evident in the summer of 2009, where there were secret talks between Bavarian CSU politicians and leading ÖVP federal politicians, including Finance Minister Pröll in Vienna, where the Bavaria informed about it and where a joint plan was reached, how to send this bank deliberately and deliberately to the pleite to help the Bavarian party friends and to construct a scandal for Austria that can be hung around Haider, the BZÖ and the FPÖ. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This strategy was drawn up this summer of 2009. And what did this strategy look like? – One has commissioned an asset screening at PricewaterhouseCoopers, and one has published this asset screening in October 2009, of which the Ministry of Finance itself says it is conscious and far too negative as regards the state of the hypo. There were APA reports that a pleite of hypo threatens. The opinion was deliberately played out, the savers were insecure and then called: Now the state has to intervene! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then the following happened: ==References== November 2009, the Bavaria have added one more tooth, in agreement with Pröll. [[Abg. Strache: Private buyers not even Terminized! They didn't even get an appointment!]] You deprived the bank of 500 million on that day, and another 1.1 billion on Friday, 11. December 2009, and with that the pleite was perfect. And on Monday after that, it has been nationalised. This is the true hypo scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The biggest barber is – now I am already coming to the conclusion – that Bavaria still has 3 billion euros of capital in this bank until today. Pröll has still committed himself to repaying these 3 billion to those who have triggered the whole. The Austrian taxpayer must put on the table €3 billion for the mismanagement of a German bank. [[Abg. Strache: This was an illegal contract that is indictable!]] I have made a request, and no one says that this is possible: Let's immediately put up a refund barrier for these 3 billion! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] If there is this refund barrier, the hypo doesn't need a single cent more tax money, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And one thing I can swear to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party – even though You do not agree to this Committee of Inquiry –: I have collected all the documents in the years, we will ask from Pröll down to everyone in front of the prosecutor who will have to answer!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16313	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from Members of the European Parliament to set up an investigation committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Strache: These are the “coverers”! That's where the scumbags sit! There it smells huge!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[21:30:17]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-17-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00175_d7e16358	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 2100/A to 2104/A. Questions 12826/J to 12845/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 21.31 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
