ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e1725	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 171. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 169 and 170. Meeting of 19. In September of this year, the Parliament's management has remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of the Grandruck, Hörl, Schittenhelm, Steindl, Neubauer, Mag are reported to have been prevented. Jarmer, Mag. Musiol, oillinger, Markowitz, Mag. Widmann, Cheers, Mag. Maier, Schönpass, Dr. Matznetter and Dr. Moser. [[08:03:16]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e1759	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 by the GO to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e1909	I also say that the Eleventh Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e1927	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, in accordance with § 74a para. 2 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Lower taxes instead of giving money to banks! to treat urgently. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e1946	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Members Mr Pendl and Mr Amon requested that the Examining Committee clarify corruption allegations for reporting a deadline until 16. ==References== It is the one of five delegates according to § 43 para. 3 request made by the GO to hold a brief debate on this request for a deadline. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Call for urgent request will take place at 11 a.m. The meeting will be transferred to ORF 2 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and to ORF III in full length. I'll interrupt the meeting by 11 a.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e1995	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[11:03:47]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning: Lower taxes instead of giving money to banks! (2080/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2031	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 2080/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2158	Before I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Bucher as an applicant to justify the urgent request, I wait until the Minister comes. I have just been told that the ESM Committee has ended the meeting, and Mrs Minister is on his way here. I would suggest, however, that we wait for them, subject to your consent. The Minister's coming. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, you have the floor. You know that according to the Rules of Procedure, your speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2188	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome you to a special meeting of the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] First of all, BZÖ and then all the other political groups in the House, welcome! [[Intervocations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I particularly welcome the Federal Minister. I hope that your rhetorical wounds from the Chaotic Committee of the ESM are now treated and that you can now focus on our tax policy proposals, namely the tax policy concepts of the BZÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to refocus the political focus on an essential issue. The main issue that will continue to concern us in the next few months will be: How do we cope with the debt crisis, together with other European countries? But also: How can we get out of the depth of the economy and restore growth, employment and prosperity in Austria to people? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This will be the essential question and not the question: Obligation – Yes or No? I hope that the SPÖ will also be able to move to my side when it comes to generating employment and growth and not just discussing military obligations. Because if you follow the comments of individual SPÖ grandeurs in the newspapers, the image of a chaotic leadership of a party arises. Therefore, I believe it can only be in the interest of the SPÖ that we should once again focus on essential political issues and not be distracted as you originally proposed. SPÖ and ÖVP, my honours Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to divert from the great EU disaster, you want to divert from the lack of their ability to act and want to discuss with us the obligation to do so and reduce this population survey to a simple question: Obligation – Yes or No? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrians, who expect above all one, remain on the track, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black: you care about the concerns and problems of the people. And people have big problems. Anyone who comes into contact with the citizens also gets to hear that people no longer get out of the money and that they are afraid to lose their jobs, that they are afraid that we are increasingly reducing economic policy and the economic location of Austria and are losing attractiveness. It is therefore necessary to take economic policy measures now when the economic engine is stuttering and, above all, we see that all efforts in recent times have used only one sector: the banks. The banks have so far been the only profiters of the crisis, and the people, the taxpayers must stand and hold for it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the overall political picture of the reign of red and black to the present day. The losers are the taxpayers, the losers are the citizens, but losers are also the small and medium-sized as well as the one-person companies of our country that stay on the track for which nothing happens. But money is made available to the banks. The banks are therefore also the great winners of this crisis. Now we are trying to get a central European construction out of this crisis, which means that all power is transferred to Brussels and national parliaments are to be cut down, and thus sovereignty is to be carried to the grave. This, ladies and gentlemen, we want to avoid from the BZÖ. This is our message against the red and black federal government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No one understands that today when red and black put the word “solidarity” in the foreground, argues and says that we must help banks out of solidarity. No one really understands that. That is why it is so necessary to think about how we get out of this mess. I know now that the accusation of Carinthia and Hypo et cetera will be discussed again. I hear it, it'll sound out of the following speeches. [[Abg. May. Lap: Yes, that's about billions!]] That is why I am giving the opportunity to understand in a preventive way where the funds have been in recent times, who has actually benefited from the large resources. The taxpayer has made € 11.7 billion available to the banks – right, banks have received the money – and in addition, the taxpayer has taken over 4.5 billion in liabilities. Raiffeisen: 1.7 billion, only for memory; First Bank: 1 billion €, only to be remembered; and then, of course, also the Hypo Alpe-Adria with a total of 2.1 billion €, which are liabilities and payments; and then the Volksbanken come with 3.2 billion €, i.e. the Volksbanken, the black sector, 3.2 billion €. First, Volksbank and Raiffeisen, black sector, combined, that's a nice bill. And then comes the municipal credit, the red municipal credit – a former member of the board today is in the SPÖ government. Total local loan: €9.9 billion. € 9.9 billion, ladies and gentlemen, only so that we have the comparability and see the relation where the funds have flowed and who has benefited from it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah, look here!]] This is very important, therefore, because in the debate only the hypo is used, which was basically bought off by this Federal Government after the Bavaria robbed the hypo! Such a financial nonsense must come to mind once, as the Minister for Finance, who has called Pröll, has said, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: You were there when you sold the hypo to Bayern!]] It is a trap of history that now the perpetrators take over the command in Europe, the trigger of this debt crisis, which the taxpayers have to take out. The banks take over the command, they gain more and more influence. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] The bankers are taking over the whole range of regulations, as we see in Italy and Greece. What is happening at European level is no longer to be surpassed by inadequacy. And now a banking union is still to come and thus this European power carousel of the “Monks of money” is going to go up. That, ladies and gentlemen, nobody understands. Bank renewal in European? What is the European bank renewal like? – On the one hand, funds are being made available, as I have now explained from the Austrian banks, on the other hand banks are now rehabilitating themselves over the taxpayer by a bank going to the European Central Bank, taking up 1 percent interest and then buying government bonds for which they receive 5 percent return. For this 5 percent return to the banks, the taxpayer is liable. This is a guaranteed business for banks that are guaranteed 4 percent profits, ladies and gentlemen, at the expense and at the expense of taxpayers. This is a European bank renovation. You have to tell people that too. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] All of this is done without the taxpayer having a right to exercise control without making these transactions actively transparent so that they can be controlled. We have been presented by the Court of Auditors with regard to supervision and control by the shortcomings of the bank rescue package. That's exactly what we've always said. In the course of the bank rescue package, the Court of Auditors noted that the audit obligations had not been met by the banks. We therefore come to the urgent conclusion that we first need clear rules for banks, not only in Austria but also at European level. That is why we have long ago proposed the separation banking system, which is about not allowing Group formations to continue, so that this “Too big to fail” can no longer be borne, according to which the banks are now so large that they cannot be smashed because this could trigger major economic crises. Therefore, we need a new structure of banks, divided into purely commercial banks, which lends loans – the original business area of the banks for which they were actually founded; Volksbank and Raiffeisen about 150 years ago – and the so-called playing banks that generate their profits in a different way. That is the urgent point we want to address. We need a clear structure, a new structure within the banking sector as a condition for making money available to banks again. At present, banks are working according to the principle: Dearer risk-free government papers buy as operating funds credited. And that can't be it! Indeed, the economy needs banks as supporters, as lenders, as active partners, and if the banks now withdraw, this leads to this credit bottle, which causes the small and medium-sized economy to suffer, so that, as a result of a weak economic situation, there can also be major economic failures. That is why the urgent appeal now also to the Minister of Economic Affairs and to the Minister of Finance to ensure that the banks prove to be a partner of the economy and do not resort to an unfair return, for which the taxpayer is responsible! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] While the banks are directing, taxpayers are bleeding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] Yes, of course! Everyone feels this, and everyone gets to hear it, whether this is the fuel prices, the food prices, the energy costs that go up, or, for example, the charges in the cities, for example, in Graz, where a proper fee orgy is celebrated and the taxpayer has to pay for it. The Federal Government must also be held responsible when it comes to responsible for the tax and tax rate. You have increased a total of 13 taxes and taxes during your period of work, during this legislative period. You are the prize driver number one, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, because you have taken all this into account and thus made people's lives noticeably expensive. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that's what it's all about: People have experienced a real loss of income over the last ten years, and this is something they need to work out and ensure that people have more money in the wallets again. Above all, the middle class is the first, the middle class is actively affected by poverty for the first time. These are 1.9 million – I am always saying system holders – who really pay income tax and income tax and make sure that Mrs Finanzminister has money at her disposal that she can spend. We say it is crucial that we pursue a clear economic policy objective at the present stage, namely the objective of reducing taxes. Then it goes up again with growth, employment and prosperity. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want to achieve this, ladies and gentlemen, with our fair tax model. This “Fair Tax” model is not comparable to the models that are now used in Eastern Europe and are considered a flat-tax model. I would like to ask Mrs Schratzenstaller from the WIFO, who compared this, to look at our tax model at least. It is simple, easy to understand, everyone can implement the “Fair Tax” model of the BZÖ itself in the future. The “Fair Tax” model of the BZÖ is designed in such a way, ladies and gentlemen, that we can calculate the taxes ourselves on a beer lid. [[The speaker holds a taferl in the format of a square beer lid on which there is an example.]] This is supposed to be so easy: Today, if someone has an annual gross wage of €25,000 with a monthly wage of €25,000, he has a savings of approximately €1 300 after a 39 percent “Fair Tax” deduction under the line. So the one who earns 2 000 € a month gross has 1 300 € more in the wallet at the end of the year. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, in the present phase, would be fair and fair to return people, because they have taken on a lot of liability, very much paid for it. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the Austrian income tax legislation, one of which only says that he really understands it, Mr Nolz, who is sitting in the Ministry of Finance and retired at the end of the year. [[Keeping a convoy of documents in height]] Mrs Bundesminister, don't send Mr Nolz to retirement, because then the whole story is no longer manageable! No one understands this, much too complicated, much too administrative, far too anti-economic. [[In turn, keeping the convoluted amount of documents in height]] – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, finally come to reason and do something about it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you want to make a tax compensation today, you need to look through all these forms, then you have to look at what applies to you, and fill it out. [[Keeping an impact of documents in height]] 99 percent of Austrians cannot do this. And that costs them a lot of money, is a huge burden, employs a army of people who take it from them, and needs a multitude of officials to administer it. Five thousand administrative officials are too many, we do not need them, Mrs Federal Minister! With the “Fair Tax” model of the BZÖ, you can send 5,000 good people of the Ministry of Finance to the economy, where they are needed when the growth process starts there due to the lower tax system of the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At present, we have a very complicated, very complex tax system, which is still unfair. I always hear from your words, when it comes to the tax system in Austria, that we need a simple, low tax system. I hope you're calling on it today. The tax system should also be socially fair. Our model guarantees – this is addressed to your address, Mrs. Finanzminister, and also to the address of Mrs. Schratzenstaller: The big winners of our tax system are the small and medium-sized income recipients. The money that remains for them goes directly into consumption and goes towards economic growth, and that will cause recovery. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The companies, the small and medium-sized enterprises, which then pay less taxes, invest their profits in their own company, because every entrepreneur believes in the future of his company and therefore also invests money because he wants to invest his money there well. That is why it is an economic syringe for Austria when we reduce taxes! Lowering taxes means paying 1 billion less taxes. That is, 0.25 percent more economic growth. That is, 4,000 more jobs in Austria. This is not a number of the BZÖ, but it comes from the Economic Research Institute. So we pick it up and lower the taxes for Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In addition, we not only save on administration, on superfluous bureaucracy, Mrs Finanzminister, but also on tax justice – and this needs to be done in Austria! You know that in our tax legislation, as much as I know, we have 600 exceptions or possibilities to optimize the tax. You know that tax morality increases when we lower taxes. And you know that this also increases the attractiveness of Austria's economic location. When I speak to you about your comments from the past, They always have an urgent tax reform that we need. They are also talking about the fact that there is a tax reform commission. Perhaps you will answer us today the question of where this tax reform committee is meeting and who is sitting there, which people are dealing with the tax questions of the future. I do not want to have one thing: that we get a tax reform model presented by the ÖVP as an election campaign gag! A serious, serious effort is being made to achieve a real revolution in the field of taxation in Austria. People in Austria have long deserved this! And if you are asking yourself today how this is to be financed – and I am already listening to the question of financing – then consider how many measures are being taken by the Court of Auditors, namely 599 in the number where the Court of Auditors each year calls on us to finally implement them, because there is a savings potential of €17 billion. I know, unfulfilled: 17 billion €!, but if we could optimize and save only half of it, then we could finally return to the people, the performance-oriented people in Austria, the families in Austria the money they have earned for a long time! This, in turn, promotes confidence in politics. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we say: Enough paid, down with taxes!, then it goes up with work, employment and prosperity in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2450	On the issue of an opinion, the Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Fekter, spoke. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2471	Madam President. Dear Mrs. Minister of Justice Dr. Beatrix Karl! Mr Rudolf Hundstorfer, Minister of Social Affairs! Mr Mag. Arbitrators! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have been facing the biggest financial and economic crisis since the 20s depression for more than four years. These phenomena, which began in the years 2007 and 2008, were undoubtedly taken out by the banks in the USA at the time, and were flooded into Europe. We still have our problem with the banks in Austria. It has also been shown, however, that Austria has come through this crisis better than all our neighbours: We have not lost jobs. We quickly regained the level before the crisis in the export sector. We have the lowest unemployment rates throughout Europe, especially in the area of youth unemployment. And we have more growth than all the other states around us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria owes its strong fundamental data to a high level of competitiveness, to the willingness of workers and not least to reform and to reform, which we have demonstrated with the adoption of the debt brake and the Stability Pact, together with the countries and communities. This strengthened investor confidence, and we are currently benefiting from the low interest rates – which are as low as never before – because we have confidence in the Austrian economy and in Austrian financial policy. [[Abg. Bucher: short term! The costs will only be in three years!]] But we cannot completely escape downward trends, which can be felt around us. Export demand as one of the key pillars has already fallen significantly, and unfortunately we have now increased unemployment rates on the labour market, but still at a similar European level. [[Abg. Grosz: If you compare the Bucklige with the Hatshert!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Only with the stabilisation of the situation in the eurozone and the resurgence of foreign demand in the near future will we get growth in Austria, which we need, so that taxes will also come in. With our taxes we finance our prosperity, and we confess that we want to further strengthen this prosperity and not to reduce it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[The members of the FPÖ hold a transparency with the title “Teuro and inflation eat wages & pensions”, “Arrival income: FPÖ” in the height.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The honourable Member, Bucher, has mentioned a lot of things that have been poorly researched and is not true. For example, the growth effect of 1 billion tax relief, i.e. tax reduction, does not lead to 0.25 percent economic growth, but if you lower taxes annually by 1 billion, this leads to 0.1 percent growth in five years. [[Abg. Kickl: Are you saying something about inflation?]] So, there's an effect, that's right, but he's only about half of what Mr Bucher mentioned here.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2541	Mrs Bundesminister, please wait a minute! Gentlemen of the FPÖ, I can ask you to re-roll your transparency. Mrs Bundesminister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2559	The tax reduction has led to purchasing power, which has made us better through the crisis. What have we implemented in this legislative period? . I would like to remind you that my predecessor, Sepp Pröll, has initiated the biggest tax reform which entered into force during this legislative period: 3.1 billion tax relief. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises received the sixth benefit. [[Abg. Kickl: Are you saying something about inflation?]] We have carried out the following measures in this legislative period on the tax sector: Reduce the wage and income tax rate by €2.5 billion, including the increase in the tax exemption for low-earners from € 10 000 to € 11 000, the rise of the top tax class from € 50 000 to € 60 000, the increase of the child's discount rate from € 610 to € 700 per year and the increase of the maintenance allowance. We have introduced the child allowance of € 220 per child per year. We have introduced the deductibility of child care costs up to 2 300 € per child and year for children up to 10 years. We have introduced tax-free allowances for employers for childcare up to €500 per year. We have introduced the extension of the amount of the allowance for invested profits while increasing the exemption from 10 to 13 percent and the withdrawal of the investment requirement for profits below €30 000. We have introduced the tax deductibility of donations for military and humanitarian purposes as well as for fire brigades and environmental protection. We have introduced the increase in the maximum amount for the tax deductibility of the church contribution to € 400. We have already carried out the increase in the research premium from 8 to 10 percent and the increase in the cover in order research to 1 million. This will benefit SMEs and small businesses. This discharge has contributed significantly, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that we have responded properly in the crisis, and therefore we are better than comparable industrial states. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My aim in tax policy, ladies and gentlemen, is to secure and increase the prosperity of Austrians in our country. You know, our tax system, especially in the income and wage tax sector, has traditionally grown and is already very, very opaque and complex. Therefore, when analyzing its weaknesses, it is undisputed in expert circles that it is necessary to make it easier for it to become more effective that it needs less, especially in the case of the entry tax rate, with a noticeable relief for the families. It has always been our system – because it has been growing over such a long period of time, always equipped with new individual measures – now out of the lot in terms of performance. We have a very large area of income stakeholders, who – and I am not paying a tax for it – do not pay a tax. [[Abg. Krainer: Wrong! They pay taxes too!]] But our entry-level tax rate is already relatively high, namely 36.5% – income and wage tax, Mr. Krainer – and this high entry-level tax rate of 36.5 percent is too high. It is anti-profit for those who deserve in addition to what they have done so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the case of experts, it is also clear that we mainly charge the tax burden at the middle level and that the medium-sized person bears the largest tax burden, and therefore the medium-sized person is relieved. [[Abg. Krainer: Wrong!]] [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] First of all, I am the taxpayer of taxpayers, and, as I have said, especially the middle class who carries the main burden. [[Ironic cheerfulness at the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Bucher: Now it will be embarrassing again!]] But I am also the lawyer of the service providers, and performance providers, ladies and gentlemen, are for me all who provide a service to society. This has nothing to do with server servants. Performance carriers are also volunteers for me. We have to look at those too! That is why we have also introduced the admissibility of the fire brigades and have done everything we can in the area of the clubs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is, we need to look at exactly who we are in his effort to do something for society. However, I also recognise, ladies and gentlemen, that the ministers make a higher contribution because they are also able to make a higher contribution. In Austria, however, the attendants are all of the middle class. That means we have – and that is not known to many! – the richest wealth tax in all of Europe! That is to say, with us the high limit rate of 50 percent already starts at € 60 000. In Germany – for comparison – one does not have such a high tax rate. There the limit rate is 43 percent and starts at € 250 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] So what the Germans have on border taxation, I would also like for our middle class. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A flat rate, all 25 percent, ladies and gentlemen, is desirable, but that would "relieve" the richest and ministering mega. [[Abg. Booker: That's not true!]] Mr Bucher, you already have to bear in mind: The 10 percent minister in Austria – 10 percent! – as Minister of Finance, bring me half, 11 billion, income and wage taxes, because we have the 50 percent limit rate there. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you want to lower it yourself!]] Now, if you propose a flat rate: 50 percent down, all of them only need to pay more than 25 percent!, Mr. Bucher, then I'm going to lose a billion dollars in income and wages tax, and then I don't know if then the welfare state and the prosperity in our country are still sustainable. [[Abg. Booker: That's not true! It's a nonsense!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What do you use the taxes for? For Greece and for the ESM! What are you doing?]] The same is true, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, on the model proposed by Mr Bucher, the integrated tariff. [[Abg. Bucher: Are you for that?]] The introduction of a flat rate plus social contributions is a red tape which is a huge redundancie and has on and off a charm in terms of bureaucratic redundancies. But it has its flaws in its implementation, because first of all it must be clarified: Do we just want to give up such a total flat rate, as Mr Bucher has proposed, and thus the insurance system? Then there is no more pension insurance, then there is no social security, then there is no unemployment insurance, but only more taxes, and everything has to be financed from the tax pot. However, I am in favour of the insurance system, and there is a very broad consensus in this Republic, I believe, also with the Minister of Social Affairs, that we do not want to lose sight of our insurance system – social insurance, pension insurance, unemployment insurance where we pay premiums. And that's why the model has its weaknesses. That would have to be discussed clearly in advance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: A social insurance scheme for all!]] For ‘flat rate’: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in our tax system, we have a tax rate that can be referred to as "flat" because it is a percentage, no matter how high the basis of assessment. You all know it: 25 percent of the savings account tax, no matter how much the savings book is, 25 percent of the investment tax, 25 percent of corporate tax, 25 percent of the foundation taxes. That is to say, in our tax system, we know over a large range of areas this 25 percent – but not labour income. We start with 36,5 percent, for everything that is more than € 11 000. And this, ladies and gentlemen, I think is anti-performance and unfair, and we must work on it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Booker: Why don't you do anything?]] In addition to this high rate of entry tax in our tax system, and in addition to the fact that the middle class is carrying the most load, we have another manko that we should actually eliminate reformatoryly – the experts agree on this also –: There are 560 exceptions in our income and wage tax system! I always call this charming: These are the Zünftlerische Privilegien. This means that every skill – and there is no exception – has a special privilege in the tax system. This is what the officials, the stakeholders, the social partners have been negotiating over the decades. However, in order to be able to change this system, namely to reduce these privileges in the tax system, to search through this thickness, we need to look at it carefully: What is still justified is what could be done if the tariff were to be reduced altogether? Therefore: There are problems or weaknesses in our income tax system, and I am willing to work together on it. The proposal from the BZÖ as a whole, namely with regard to tax and social taxes, would create a gap of €20 billion in these two areas. Of course, €20 billion is a fine tax relief, but then we can no longer maintain our prosperity, our welfare state, our social system. This too must be said fairly to the population. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You should not scatter sand into people's eyes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That is, everything that sounds so great is, when it comes to debureaucratisation, also a concern to me, when it comes to reducing the peak tax rate or the entry tax rate, also a concern to me, when it comes to decommissioning the middle class, is also a concern to me. When it comes to relief from families, I too am interlocutory, I also want to have it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, a 39 per cent model that is mostly burdened by pensioners and apprentices in billions, because these are those who currently pay less than 39 per cent, and which you would have 39 per cent, is something I can't do with. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: You can also bark from the government bank!]] In the integrated tariff you presented, Mr Bucher, you must also tell people that Christmas and holiday benefits are also abolished in this respect. And that we want it, I don't think so. That means that you have to tell people that you have done away with the sixth advantage in Christmas money and holiday money with your model. That is, some good arguments, Mr Bucher, are not yet making a good model. And that's why we can't win your model in the form you suggested today. But we are willing to be interlocutors when it comes to less, simpler, more accountable and above all to relieve the families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2887	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes under the Rules of Procedure. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2915	High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! With your complicated reading presentation, which you have given us to your so-called simple control system for 20 minutes now, I have come up with a quote for Rudolf Edlingers, especially with your comment: I'm the taxpayer's lawyer. I can only answer that with Rudolf Edlinger: It's like I'm gonna let the dog watch out for the crackwurst. – This is the appropriate comparison, also in accordance with the rules of business, Madam President. This comparison, easy to find, was then punished with no calling for order, but is simply the truth. High house! What are the Austrian taxes for? Do they pay taxes to guarantee infrastructure projects in this country? - No, they don't pay! Do they pay taxes on the maintenance and expansion of public security? - No, they don't pay! Do they pay taxes for a fairer economic policy or a more just labour market policy? - No! When we look at the latest labour market data, we see that unemployment is rising in this country, economic growth is falling, even though the Federal Minister is striving to compare with Europe, which is about as if one wanted, popularly, to seek competition between the “Buckler” and the “Hatchert” in the areas of labour market and economic policy. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] Do Austrians and Austrians pay taxes for a reasonable debt reduction in this country, in the Federal Government, in countries and communities? - No, they don't pay. Debts rise – at federal level, at country level and at municipal level. However, I tell you what the Austrians pay their horrendous taxes on a monthly basis: The Austrians are paying taxes – you are confessing yourself to this principle of insurance, Mrs Finanzminister, you just said – for a social security system that I have brought with you here, where for 17 cash registers 700 094 000 euros a year are charged to administrative costs alone. [[a paper showing]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrians pay for these 17 cash registers – 17 cash registers in this country, which is the insurance principle! – 39 main posts, 18 customer centers, 118 district offices and a total of 13,042 employees. In this country, we must get used to the fact that we are soon paying more people in the administration than we have in the free private sector, Mrs Finanzministere. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Austrians pay taxes – and I tell you so too – of €1.6 billion for Greece, not for a tax and tax reduction as you would like us to know! Feeling 60 years, the Austrian People's Party is sitting at the chair of the Minister of Finance, and for as long as you accompany Austrian federal governments – with an exception of social democracy in the 1970s – you, the debt-making party ÖVP. The Austrians pay taxes on tax benefits in the ESM amounting to € 2.23 billion and another € 19.5 billion, which will be provided to feed them into the European debt tower. And people pay taxes for the EFSF, 21.7 billion liabilities, and people pay taxes, as Klubobmann Bucher has said, for the banks in this country, which fail to increase the credit rates for the Austrians and also for the municipalities month after month. I will then give you detailed examples. And just as you operate at the federal level, so do the municipalities and the countries. The Court of Auditors report, published on the annual accounts two weeks ago, is proof of meat. The Court of Auditors is writing here on several hundred pages, the Land budgets are exploding, and especially the municipal budgets, the debt levels have exploded. In Styria, the Federal State I come from, another savings package of €250 million will be chained for next year, and no one knows where this money should come from, because in the administration your reform twins of red and black do not want to save in Styria. In a city like Graz, from which I come, which has €1.26 billion in debt and the highest rate of tax and fees across Austria, the debt level is soon rising to €1.3 billion – while at the same time the highest rate of fees and taxes. By the way, I can remind you: In Graz, the second largest city in Austria, is a black man of the Financial City Council and a black man also the mayor, who should also be held responsible for this irresponsible debt policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And what is this money used for in such communities? – That the Landes-Hypothekenbank can increase its credit interest on one side that Bank Austria – in this case Graz – can raise its credit interest on one side, the Bank for Carinthia and Styria and the Raiffeisen Landesbank. However, Grazers pay €2.1 million annually on construction charges, canalization contributions € 5.3 million, land tax € 22.4 million, canal use fee € 38.5 million, waste disposal fee € 31.6 million, and I can continue this now until my mouth is so dry that I no longer have a voice. [[Call the SPÖ: That would be good!]] The Grazers pay taxes that you will also generate €1.3 billion in debt in the municipal area. And the Grazers pay not only these taxes, but they pay €1.7 billion in the year – as much as you ask, Mrs. Finanzminister – in income and wealth tax, in VAT €940 million and in other taxes €161 million. And where's the money going? – The money does not go into a financial compensation between the federal, state and local authorities for the debt of these communities, no, the money goes 1 : 1 to the banks, to the ESM, to Greece. And at the same time, you refuse to join the BZÖ's Fair Tax model in order to finally reduce taxes and taxes. And yes, we could afford it if you get to know that you do not sacrifice the Austrians' tax money at the altar of debt countries, but at last come here and use this tax benefit to ensure that this country, that the municipalities and the federal government are discharged, and that people in that country finally find relief in terms of their tax and tax burden. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to give you this model of beer cover tax, which Josef Bucher has presented today, so that you can get into it once. This is a simple 39 per cent tax, including social security contributions, ladies and gentlemen, and this has not been understood by this Minister of Finance. And then I'll be back at the beginning of the speech with the crack sausage and the dog, because for a finance minister, there is also a need for a certain basic understanding in the area. Then you will see that this 39 percent for social security and tax – for social security and not for 22, Mrs. Finanzminister! – more just and more stressful than what you have done here together with the ÖVP and SPÖ for years and decades in the Austrian Federal Government to the detriment of Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e2997	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3019	Madam President. High house! As regards the urgent request made today by the BZÖ, I must say that this is a rather courageous initiative that you put there in history – and you always have Carinthia in the field, your ambitions are always directed towards Carinthia, as we have known since summer – and what is to be done within the framework of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, you lack courage unfortunately!]] That's what we can do afterwards. In this connection, however, I would simply like to add a point of argument to the part of the tax which you have brought in here. Suppose you would be a hoteler: You always have to make counter-accounts. You can't say: I have a malakofftorte today, a schnitzel, and that's 3 € each, and I rent the rooms at 5 €, and if it goes out, it's good, and if it doesn't go out – I don't think about it now. You can't calculate that! – It’s interesting that I need to teach you about commercial behavior now, but that’s how you can’t calculate with regard to the tax. [[Abg. Bucher: How long have you been in the economy, Mr. Colleague?]] But what we noticed: This BZÖ tax model is a booker tax relief model. According to your model, you pay by 17 000 € less taxes per year. That's what you're proposing here. [[Congratulations and Oh-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] And you probably have to have it off-balance-value with managers, because if a person has an annual gross salary of €1.3 million, the €120 000 will pay less taxes. Tell me how deep was the beer ink when you wrote your tax model on the beer lid here? How dry was my colleague Grosz's mouth and your mouth when you were in the inn and wrote these numbers on this beer lid? How transparent was the beer thunder? [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Minister for Finance has predicted that this will break a gap of up to €20 billion. Where is that supposed to come from? I join what I said in the beginning: Where is your concept in the urgent request where you tell us: But we know where the 20 billion € come from!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Bucher: Even more likely!]] They also produce and philosophy over performance carriers. That's even the very best! Whoever pays a lot of taxes is a service provider. That's your simple formula. You probably must have discussed this with Mrs. Flick and Mrs. Horten in Carinthia – your ambitions go towards Carinthia – at Wörthersee. Of course, these are the super power carriers – performance carriers in thinking how I can make a detour road so that my property becomes even more valuable. That was even the woman Horten said too much: Oh, oh, that fad of Mrs. Flick, and then they started to argue. You can do this once if you have the possibility. I'll tell you: For all of them, you just throw yourself into the break, for yourself, for the hortens, for the flicks where we have the intermediate tax rate, money should be in foundations – I don't know the two – have doubled by 12.5 percent. [[Abg. Bucher: You don't even know yourself!]] That is why we have made a contribution. Where are the leaders of the great inheritances? Well, I know, it's not that easy: You have to go to the office and see that you take up the inheritance, pay a few fees. – These are performance carriers? Is there not a woman at the Billa cash register at the savings office that works there for 13, 14 hours? That's a terrible thing! Sit down at the Billa's or the Spar's checkout for 13, 14 hours – I want to see how you look after yourself when you've been sitting there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When you presented this today, the WIFO, Mrs Schratzenstaller, said that this will relieve the higher incomes that are burdening the lower one – the Minister of Finance has mentioned this before – and she has said: There will be no growth and employment effects. Now 20 billion € are already lost in what you have put on the table, plus no revenue due to higher growth and by higher employment: What kind of concept is that? This is not a milkmaid bill, but a beerbuberl bill. I'm sorry if I have to call it that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And because you also quoted in there a UBS study that speaks of income loss, only for correction – I have not been allowed to participate in your urgent request, but next time you can invite me –: Real income grew by 12.2 percent between 2000 and 2010. So it was spread. You there? And what would interest me above all is in the context – because you always attack the banks –: What do you think about the hypo carinthia? There are now 1.55 billion euros inside. You know how it must have been then: Those who have or have had an influence on these banks – I am careful now because there are courts everywhere, like the grapes, the courts are on the road, the prosecutor's office is on the way – those who have gone into highly risky business have probably taken over liability, have probably had the following philosophy. [[Abg. Bucher: Forged! Forged! Local credit!]] They said: Well, if something happens, the country will be held liable by Carinthia. Well, if something happens to the country of Carinthia, the Federation is liable. And who is the covenant? Let us translate it once: the taxpayers throughout Austria! [[Abg. Bucher: What about the municipal credit?]] They say: Don't save banks! So come on. You get out and tell them you want to let the Land-Hypo Carinthia down the stream! You know, the emergency nationalization has, among other things, had the purpose of not striking the €20 billion. Then the taxpayer length burns wide once when it gets beating up to 20 billion €! Up to 20 billion €! You don't think so! You could have addressed a urgent matter to yourself, that would have been the best thing, with the issue of how to deal with this banking problem in Carinthia and what your alternatives would have been. This was the only way to be able to act gently for taxpayers, as far as possible because of this irresponsibility that happened under Jörg Haider at the time. You have to see this clearly here once and for all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You always say so easily, the money goes into the ESM, and so on. I'm telling you, the ESM is currently about as much inside as it is in the Carinthian Lande-Hypo – only so that the viewers know that. [[Abg. Bucher: The fourfold of the municipal credit!]] We're discussing big ESM, the giant package, but that's about as much as the country hypo. There will probably have to be an increase in equity. Then we're about there, what's inside the ESM. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] – No, it’s about the dimensions! You can defend the Jörg Haider afterwards, if you are speaking, which seems not to have been implicated in the whole country-hypo-desaster. That's about as much as it is in the ESM – just so you can see the dimensions correctly. For the ESM, you can only re-dimension from the ESM, the euro, and so on. Once again, if you want to reduce or withdraw the euro zone, it costs 20 billion euros! You're right, Mrs. Finanzminister. At the same time, in times of the impact of the financial and economic crisis, the roots of which are the deregulation of financial markets and these mixed banks, which have speculated wildly, also with the deposits of savers, we are concerned that we ensure our health system, our social system, our economic system, the middle class, the entrepreneurs as well as the workers, the pensions. [[Abg. Grosz: 22 social security funds!]] And you introduce yourself and propose a destruction and destruction model for this Austrian wealth and economic model. [[Abg. Grosz: You don't believe that yourself! Be careful that you don't have to laugh!]] This can be proved from the figures, and I'll tell you, that's pretty easy to do what you're doing. Finally, there's something else to tell you. They know that in Austria 1 percent of the population owns 27 percent of the money, and 10 percent have 54 percent of the money. It's similar with real estate. I have to tell you, of course, they have to be asked for cash. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you do not prevail in the government! What you're saying doesn't come!]] It can't be that the rich and the super-rich are watching how the middle class and those with the smaller incomes and pensioners pay – and they pay nothing! I can't do that! In such a situation, you propose exactly the opposite. They would have to propose how social fair participation can take place here and at the same time boost the economy, especially now where a little bit of a short-term improvement is taking place. [[Abg. Bucher: With tax reduction! You increase taxes!]] This means that growth, employment and our social and health system must be strengthened and a dynamic, competitive economy guaranteed. You don't do that! You don't do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only thing that might like this is, as I have read, the founder of your party – Frank – who may have a weakness for the whole, but he sees the world quite simply. That you decided to see the world so easily and to shorten it to a beer lid, that's something that was surprising, but that certainly doesn't help us. In any case, we will continue to fight for social justice here, and will continue to defend and expand our social and health system and our culture of life – a model not only for Austria but far beyond the borders of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3244	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3289	Appreciate Mrs Financiary Minister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Bucher spoke at the beginning of his speech, I assume, promised to speak of a special meeting of the BZÖ. Perhaps it would also have been better to hold a special meeting of the BZÖ and rethink and rework this request. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Above all, it is not clear to me what the urgency of this request should be, why this could not have waited another 14 days until the next regular session. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because people don't have money anymore! That's so simple!]] But well, if we're already here and dedicated ourselves to this issue, we're talking about taxes! Let's talk about taxes! I would like to underline and sign the first two words of the title of your application: ‘Settle taxes’. – Yes, at the right time, then, if you can afford it, and not at a time when it would have exactly the opposite effect for people in that country, namely, the deficit and debt. But, yes, in our country, the tax and tax rate is too high. She's an enemy, she's unjust. I even mentioned the former German President Roman Herzog, who called a high tax and tax rate a modern slavery. I like to repeat this: I actually think it's a perfide form of slavery. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] [[Abg. Strache: But who are the thieves now? That we are the slaves, we know, but who are the thieves?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that in Austria, 10 percent of taxpayers pay 50 percent of wage and income tax. In this country, if we want to maintain our prosperity, our social security, then we need above all one thing: Performance and willingness to perform as much as possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is not possible to achieve performance, performance and a high level of performance, if you tighten this gap even further, but you usually get it when it is worth delivering, and there is, of course, the appropriate means to reduce taxes, and not to think about new taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that Austria is going better than other countries also has to do with the fact that in recent years we have made tax policy decisions that have done well for this country and its economy and for jobs. Just to remember: We lowered corporate tax in 2005, under the then black and blue government, from 34 to 25 percent. The result was an additional growth, additional revenue and additional jobs. This is the way to make economic and tax policy, ladies and gentlemen. - I'll be right there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But this shows that reductions can lead to additional revenue! That's no contradiction!]] This includes the reduction of wage and income tax, which we carried out by €3 billion in 2009 – the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it. This has increased the purchasing power of households, because it has also relieved families in particular. And this is a second good example of how to do economic, tax policy in a country so that it actually benefits people in a country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few fundamental comments in the near future, ladies and gentlemen. Some are currently massively propagating the word “righteousness. ” But they mean equality. But equality is the opposite of justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Equalizing disregards the inequality of the abilities and also the needs of the people. What should be the same in a country, therefore, are not the people, not their incomes, but their chances. People's chances should be equal and equal, but not human beings in themselves! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and by Dr. Fichtenbauer and Ing. Hofer.]] Some, ladies and gentlemen, are promoting justice and my solidarity. Solidarity is not a question of justice. Solidarity is a matter of fairness and humanity. Austria is one of the most redistributive countries in the world. We are among the countries with the slightest differences in income between the lower-income and the upper-income third. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And with the greatest differences in wealth!]] That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, the porters or, as some of you may say, the rich do to a degree solidarity and thus fairness with the low-earners as in hardly any other country in the world! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Open up once, how much you have collected from the super-rich up to now!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this solidarity has its limits. It has affected, above all, its boundaries where a high tax burden, the expression of this solidarity, is affecting the willingness to perform and also the tax morale of the payers. And at this point we arrived! That means: Distribution justice, or we call it “Solidarity”, requires first of all performance and performance, and we must not undermine it by our tax policy in this country! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is probably no coincidence that the National Bank published a study on the distribution of assets in Austria a few days before a party day. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: European study! Europe-wide study!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: What's this cheap polemic?]] The little surprising result of this study is that the wealth is unevenly distributed in Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do you doubt the results?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Only: Is that wrong? These people have not stolen their property, they have usually acquired it. That is to say, as being unfair, one feels an uneven distribution of property only if one confuses justice with equality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Two more sets on the BZÖ model, ladies and gentlemen. The idea of an integrated tariff for our tax and tax system actually comes from the President of the Chamber of Commerce Christoph Leitl. But unlike you, he has always said that he does not want a single tariff, but rather an integrated but rather progressive tariff. Because if you go here and remove all the exceptions – the Minister of Finance has said you should look at them carefully – then this tax system and model do not take any more account of the different cost burden on taxpayers. That, by the way, is unconstitutional! But above all, this rate, which you propose, would favour the low-earners, the donor, chronically ill, pensioners – and the server servants. Is that what you want? [[Abg. Bucher: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] This is anything but what a fair tax system needs to deliver! That is, this single tariff is unfair, it is constitutionally problematic. But we can hold a serious debate on a tariff, a progressive integrated tariff. Why not? But not in this way, which you have proposed here, because this would not be eligible for funding, which would increase our deficit by up to 20 billion. And who would be the sufferer of this deficit increase? – The taxpayers outside, who you want to predict now, would relieve them. With this model, you would even continue to burden taxpayers in the future, Mr Bucher!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3518	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3539	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We are today in a situation where we live in a high tax country. Mr. Klubobmann Cap, even if you're advocating this: We have the highest tax burden in the Second Republic. We have a tax rate of around 42 percent. And if Mr Kopf as ÖVP-Klubobmann has spoken about the fact that some people think, with such maximum tax charges and tax quotas, that they almost have to talk about slavery, I ask Mr Klubobmann: Then who are the slave drivers? Where, then, are the thieves responsible for removing the money from the hands of people with such maximum tax rates and charges? This question must be asked. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Whoever the thieves are, he said anyway!]] I say that this maximum tax burden is not to be maintained in this way! That's where we have to sit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to reduce the load. We are committed to reducing the tax rate to a maximum of 39 per cent, and we are prepared to secure this cover in the context of a constitutional provision. That would be a reasonable and safe discharge. If we take the tax debate that is being held today, we are talking about a large part of it, such as the fact that the debt rate supported by the SPÖ at EU level, as correctly addressed, is EUR 20 billion, i.e. in the context of target demands – EFSF arrests, ESM arrests et cetera. This means that the Austrian taxpayers already have over €80 billion of the liability you, Mrs Finanzminister, are responsible for. And if You then make yourself the taxpayer's lawyer, then I can only say: That's a smooth cock what you're doing for the best! Today, they are responsible for this maximum tax burden and have not supported any request from the opposition to concrete tax relief of performance providers in Austria, the workers who are being devoured today by inflation and inflation development. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] The inflation trend that we have to suffer is the most unfair tax burden on the highest tax burden that we are suffering at the moment. And this inflation, this unjust tax, is rising rapidly! And if you make yourself, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, and say that the Swiss bank UBS is not right, then I can only tell you: Of course she's right! If you can read a study and you can also understand what I hope, then read from this study that the real loss of wages and income, if you calculate all areas of inflation and price increases – and that is fair, everything else is unreasonable – is already minus 35 percent from 2000 to 2012. Food prices alone are 20 percent more expensive with us today, due to the monopoly in Austria than with our Bavarian neighbours, because there are agreements here. And then make yourself here and talk about your SPÖ tax model supposed to be that fair! Yes, we know this from the BEGAS and the BEGAS Board of Directors Simandl, who tried to put €10 million black in the bag. So much about the current injustice of a SPÖ member in Burgenland. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But if we see Austria's gifts of money to the European Union, to ESM, to EFSF, to Greece, to the Member States that do not comply with requirements and an unlimited guarantee of liability, these are the socially unfair instruments with which you burden taxpayers. And if you burden taxpayers with EUR 20 billion, it's no wonder that we can't expect tax relief from this government. This is, moreover, the same government that has reduced the family allowance has reduced the amount of care paid in respect of the mineral oil tax. The increases in the price of petrol are so dramatic that the drivers no longer know at all when they need the car as their counterparts, how they are to survive and get through with their wages. These are the realities of which people are directly affected. I therefore say: Let us therefore introduce these EUR 70 billion in payments and liabilities, our Austrian taxpayers, who are being pumped towards the ESM and the EFSF and the Member States today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's use this money here in Austria! That's necessary! Yes, to save Austrian banks, that is legitimate. But today it has been forgotten to mention that the biggest damage to the country and to the taxpayer has been the banking pleite of municipal credit, on the red side. There has been a lot of damage on different levels – perfectly rightly and correctly noted. [[Abg. Krainer: Absurd!]] – Yes, there comes again the caller who speaks of absurdity, when the municipal credit with 9 billion has caused the haughty damage to the Republic, where Ms. Schmied has been sitting on the board of directors and has so far remained unblemished by the prosecutor's office. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Also a very interesting circumstance: Although these inconsistencies have been brought to light years ago, to this day the public prosecutor's inactivity against the board and member of the board Ms. Schmied on this matter! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like you to finally act here, clarifying the horrors that have caused the citizens huge damage. And before the SPÖ leadership now comes up for the Austrians, who are poorer by inflation on the current band, with a completely unforgivable further tax increase and goes home with variants of it, it should be better to ensure that inflation is finally curtailed. That would be necessary! Inflation is particularly affected by lower levels of income, and it is the poorest of the poor who suffer from it and experience a devouring of their low salaries or low pensions. And now that the metal union negotiations are taking place, that is, until they have negotiated wages and a half reasonable inflation adjustment, at the end of the day, a pure pseud negotiation, because until wages are then paid out, they are in reality eaten up by inflation again. These are the problems people experience: Life costs, rising, operating costs, rising, renting, rising, inflation in all areas affecting people. And there you have to counter it. And that's not exactly what you're doing, but you're going ahead with charge increases in different areas – as listed in Graz today, just like in Vienna – with garbage charges, water charges increases, park pickerl collection. You'll drive over the population in Vienna, under red-green government responsibility. When it comes to a People's Survey for which sufficient support could be collected in accordance with the Constitution, not 57 000 but more than 100,000 valid signatures, these citizens who signed that they should not have their right to legislate and simply roll over people because it is a purely tax increase, rather than a traffic control process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the monsterity that people have to experience and suffer on various levels. Inflation, therefore, is in fact, in addition to the increases in fees, in addition to the other burdens you are responsible for, the biggest loss of income to be reported today. I therefore say: Please stop with this unconditional EU-hungry, with the inability with which you are doing this and harm our country and people and make people much poorer in our country as well. Unfortunately, it has been breaking up in the negative sense of God’s middle class for some time – demonstrated in all studies. The middle class is crumbling! There are 1.2 million more and more people living today in the direction of the poverty line. This shows that it's a danger in delay. And if we want to boost something here, then – a concrete proposal –: Rightful tax model – yes. Different levels – yes. But entrance tax rate down to 25 percent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Average tax rate down, lower to at least 35 to 37 percent! – You can leave the maximum tax rate. But for this, please also raise the limit of €60 000 in gross annual income to €100 000, so that the middle class is also relieved there and we truly meet the really rich – that is, those who sit here. There should be no tax model where a clubman with a € 170 000 is at the end of who is the main profiter. It's not socially fair. We want a fair tax model where workers and service providers are relieved, starting from small income recipients to medium-sized enterprises. And that would be a fair model: with the reduction of the tax rate of input to 25 percent, the average tax rate to 35 to 37 percent, and ultimately also with the maximum tax of an increase for income recipients to € 100 000 per year gross. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And beyond that: At the time of the crisis, we should already make a corresponding contribution to solidarity. The bank managers with 1 million or 2 million € are not supposed to experience a discharge, as in your model, Mr. Bucher. This cannot be the socially just and balanced model. We want discharge from the service providers – but not for those who are directing it in this society. That's what it's all about. This should be debated seriously, and we should discuss these proposals. I say, on the basis of this, that every citizen can also form his good and right opinion, which party best represents his interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3681	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3702	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we landed at a wide range: Community law, EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of And the second part refers to banking aid, to lack of controls. However, I will add one aspect that has a lot to do with tax revenue and reasonable use of tax money, namely, when it comes to the expenditure policy of the State and when it comes to the methods of the majority of this House, to preventing those Members who want to control expenditure policy from exercising their respective minority rights. The spectators in front of the televisions may not know what happened today, but the representatives – the so-called representatives – of the government parties have actually done it: It is a request to set deadlines in the House that the Committee of Inquiry, which would still have to light a number of corruptions, should be strangled shortly – I can't say otherwise – even though important – as the Jargon says – issues of evidence have not yet been approached. [[Abg. Strache: But we, the liberals, have forced the debate!]] So we may also have to deal briefly with Deutsche Telekom's acquisition policy, i.e. with the Telekom East business, where you have to ask yourself how it can be that the Austrian taxpayer – keyword: Tax policy – was praised by hundreds of millions of euros and is still not clear today how a political network around Martin Schlaff has done this work through a red bank under the significant government participation of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Street: Over 1 billion! Over 1 billion cheered!]] – But we don’t want to know that in time and enough. We just want to know that this investigation is hindered or even turned off. [[Abg. May. Lap: The sleep is loaded!]] We'll take a short look at all these things here. [[Abg. Stache: We from the FPÖ have fortunately forced a debate!]] But first of all, so to speak, following the usus and including the actual contribution to the debate, on the distribution of assets and on fiscal justice. It's always the same thing when the ÖVP goes out here and says something about it. You haven't learned it yet. The chancellor Schüssel has lost the election in 2006 because he has rightly dragged the name “social refrigerator” around with him, but now the freezing rests are constantly waiting for us. As you have done, Mr. Klubobmann's head, this swadronry about justice and equality, and then again equal opportunities – all of this may have a place in a conceptual philosophical seminary, but just as you have arranged it, you have only overlaid the disguise of an ideological floater here – quite clearly. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] Look, it is perfectly clear that “justice” is a term that one can philosophy and argue about. But it was the Federal Minister who called here after performance justice – and we see this as an obligation, not a question – and you have assembled equal opportunities. But in the light of the study presented this week by the Oesterreichische Nationalbank – by the way, on behalf of a European institution and not by a SPÖ party – I would not like that in your place – the findings are clear: Although it is true that the distribution of income in Austria and also the tax interventions here lead to very flexible results – I would join, Mrs. Federal Minister – but the more dramatic the imbalance and thus the inequality in wealth is. Now it may be said that everything has been generated and already taxed, but you know, Mr Kopf, with this shame, almost every tax would have to be abolished, except for the income tax – at least also the VAT on sausages, because, as a rule, you will probably have taxed your income if you buy a sausage. And so this is not an argument against taxes aimed at particularly high assets. And I only come to a single point – keyword: Equal opportunities, keyword: Performance –: How would you describe this – and I refer here to very high inheritances, “million heirs”, as the SPÖ says; at least then they place it back in time to the party’s day; and there may also be something about it, the question is just how honest that is meant: 5 million – you already have to earn quite a lot if you want to earn this grossly throughout your life. Most never reach this. These are actually only more than 20, 30 percent of the working population. Such a person pays at least 50 percent of that amount in taxes and social security contributions. On the other hand, if a person inherits 5 million to which he may have contributed little to nothing at all, he would only have done so if he had worked in a parental establishment, and there would be other exceptions in the case of a million-dollar inheritance tax, as that is referred to. What now, Mr Head, is likely to be, if someone who works for a lifetime earns 5 million in his entire life and pays 2.5 million of them – and someone who gets 5 million through a death case pays zero – you may now explain this for a second time, what this has to do with equal opportunities. It's no match for performance. And see, that's the point. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we were finally going to get rid of this whole ideological paradise, just to make a cheap point, once again in the Boulevard – this time on this side – then we could finally turn to the fact that we have a billion-and-a-half billion – and if we could involve the foundations, where there is a lot of wealth concentrated, up to €2 billion. Now I am not saying that the money should be thrown out again or something else, no, so that we – and this is also the intention of the applicant – can at least step by step in the area of wage and income tax. That would be fair and it would have something to do with equal opportunities. And at some point you may also land there, at the latest, if there is a reasonable basis for the ÖVP – you must not give up hope – which should lead you back to Christian-social values. Shouldn't you? I don't know if it's coming like this, just: With this performance, the next halving of your voices is about to happen, just as the then Chancellor's bowl almost did. Well, that's your problem anyway. I'm just saying, Millions of heirs and foundations – if we make an inheritance tax equivalent there, what we should do well – would be a just source of revenue that we could use immediately for reasonable things. I am still talking about tax fraud in a small point, because that is a short time, and Mr Rossmann will be deepening it. You know, something more sublime – yes, Madam President! – there is no such thing as the behaviour of the official Republic on this issue. It is you, Mrs Federal Minister, on behalf of the Federal Government – if you have one at all – who complains of all negotiations at EU level! – with Switzerland and Liechtenstein, so that at last data exchange, over millions and billions of tax sinners, can be blocked. Austria is blocking this. Why? – Because Raiffeisen and other banks drive and benefit from a similar system with us. That's the reason! So give. You're not going to take this blockade, so you won't be able to do the following: At European level, the agreement on solidarity aid, which exists there, where tax-payer liability is always in there, will continue to disappear, if the findings become increasingly clear that from Greece billions – billions! – can simply stay there with tax-backed money, which is certainly not taxed, but is all the more secure in Switzerland, and can prevent Austria from being stopped at least in the medium term with its policy. There's nothing more about tax fraud and tax morality – because that's the morality that the ÖVP and once again in the tow show the SPÖ. That's what you can maim! This has nothing to do with solidarity, neither with European nor with the question of just distribution between the poor and the rich. And it is not to be seen why the Greek billionaires should get away unscathed while there are conditions in the hospitals that are adventurous. And that's what you have to answer. And then don't always talk about it as if you were representing special values. But let us come to the announced contribution that you are making to Parliamentary deep-flying aircraft today. They want to turn away from the investigation committee, although this is doing a good job and it is useful to look at the use of tax money. What happened now, what happened? – To examine the question of the use of funds, for example for the entire ads, is a major task, in fact one should go back to the year 2000. I've looked at what the sums are: Hundreds of millions! It's incredible what the Ministries spent there. If I only take the last five years of agriculture ministers who have now become sadly famous, it is also more than 13 million – without any plan; the only plan was: as many ministers as possible in the photo. That's all bad enough. But if it still turns out that the whole thing has also been integrated into the ÖVP cheeses, namely because ÖVP party newspapers have been used especially, then it is clear why you want to turn it off. And that's just a sourry, and you're not doing anything good with it, because in truth it's about us having to re-start a – then really moral-ethical – restart in this republic, after all that has been discovered. And the final reconnaissance is the prerequisite for this restart. You will nevertheless not be able to prevent this, because we will also prove it to you outside of a committee of inquiry, what you have done for a waste and mismanagement – into your party funds then, by the way, to the detriment of taxpayers. We won't stop proving that. That will be our mission, and we won't let that happen again!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3810	Mr Mag. Kogler, you probably know that the sharp talk is going to end where it's going to be insulting. And that is why I give you at least a call for order for the expression of ‘ideological proponents’. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber and other MEPs of the Greens: “Triebwachzer” – not “Triebätter”!]] Next, Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e3843	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Kopf has already asked us why we have requested this special meeting today on this not so important subject tax reduction. [[Abg. Head: “Important ” and“ urgent ” are two different things!]] – Yes, that is to say, on this not so urgent issue tax reduction, Mr Kopf. In fact, it is unfortunate that you are right – and not just “real” – but it is unfortunate that an opposition party and a special meeting need to be able to discuss tax relief, economic promotion here in Parliament. [[Abg. Krainer: We discuss this every second plenary!]] I would have expected, and indeed, Mr Krainer, that at least at the first meeting after the summer break – this is not so long ago, in September – including you from your side, if there are these plans – and I am going to come to that, Mrs Finanzminister; you do not have so much time anymore – to implement the tax relief you have announced that you would have dealt with this issue in the September session as far as your plans for this area are concerned. But there was only one item on the agenda, and that was the change in the Federal Government, the appointment of the State Secretary Lopatka. Mr Kopf, that would have been interesting if you had taken the initiative. This would be expected from a government party or government, but: No, it's not the case, for whatever reason. Therefore, it is up-to-date, it is urgent that the opposition, in this case the BZÖ, ensures that we discuss these necessary measures for tax reduction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, here my question to you, because quite so, Mr Kopf, it is not, as you have said, that Mrs Finanzminister meant: an integrated tax rate, but progressive. It is a year ago that you, Mrs Federal Minister, announced a major tax reform, and I quote: ‘The objective is an integrated, uniform tax rate. I'm not turning on a few screws, I'm really planning a big throw. Much easier, also a flat tax” – Mrs. Federal Minister! – “is imaginable” And you’re still detailing the whole thing: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it? Look, look!]] Flat tax 44 cents per euro; Social security is integrated. [[Abg. Bucher: But that's a year ago!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's a year ago! We can't remember that anymore!]] So, Mr Kopf, what has changed over the past year? If you say, Mrs Bundesminister, 44 cents per euro for this integrated tariff – we suggest 39 cents per euro for this common tariff, for social security and tax. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: the model of Mr. Bruckner!]] But you presented it as your idea. I just quoted you: ‘Fector plans Radicalkur for wage tax’. You didn't answer it. [[Abg. Krainer: The colleague Fekter is not opposed to being failed!]] I can't say what you say in your silent room, but I can only say what has been published by you. And you've announced a big tax reform! Now we are still a year before the planned – I suppose, but perhaps we do not know that exactly – National Council election date. So if you are planning something else, and above all something big, as you have announced, then we should soon get something, because it takes a while to get through the parliamentary bodies. [[Abg. Booker: “Great Throw ”!]] [[Abg. Booker: This is the great case, and not the great throw!]] And we would like to discuss this, which is why we have presented our proposals here too. Or is it true that you planned something a year ago, but now you see that you are not doing it in the Federal Government? Then please say that, because then it would be really good to say – because there are a whole series of projects that simmer somewhere in working groups and subcommittees that don't go on either –: Okay, we're not bringing anything together in this government, but it would be necessary to act now; let's not let the population decide on the obligation of military, but on the future of a new federal government! – That would probably be the more sensible way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And, Mr Cap, I am always pleased to hear your two variants of speech, and I do not want to address that at all. You always talk about the hypo – and if you mention the 9.9 billion for the municipal credit, then that is unscrupulous after your presentation. That really does not bring us any further in the debate. They then ask where the counter-receipt of these tax cuts is – and now we could ask again where the counter-recognition of the expenditure for ESA, EFSF, is for the European debt, where we have now assumed unlimited liability. This question is not asked. Maybe one more thing: In the case of a cashier who has to sit 13, 14 hours in the workplace, you would have been with your party and the trade union, as the Minister of Social Affairs would have failed very much if this were still necessary or possible today. [[Deputies Bucher and Ing. Westenthaler:Employment!]] I don't think so. Thank God. So do not use or abuse those people who are really hard to work for party policy polemics here in the House! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] We must do something now. We have an economic growth, according to forecast, of 0.8 percent. You know very well that under 2.5 percent of economic growth, unemployment will not be reduced but will rise. There's something we need to do! We need to boost the economy! We need to increase purchasing power! This is not just a national task, because the European Union would have to do a lot of work together, including for us, to open up the new growth markets and fight against wage, social and environmental dumping of other nations, such as China and India. That would be a task for the European Union, which would be really rewarding, but where there is very little to hear so far. And at the national level, we should ensure that we first of all through savings – keyword: Administrative reform, also one of these working groups that are sent – create scope and through a tax reduction, as we have suggested by the BZÖ under Klubobmann Bucher, also create the spaces to increase purchasing power. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Travel theme!]] Increased purchasing power strengthens the economy accordingly, creating jobs. We do not want fewer people in Austria, because they do not have employment, to pay more taxes, but we want more to be in employment, which can also pay less taxes, but overall the volume remains the same. This is the counter-account, Mr Cap, which you have requested from us and which is present. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But let's talk about it, and don't always do everything this way with the polemics: Yeah, the opposition, that's nothing, and by the way, look at Carinthia. - We want to look at Austria. The population is concerned, and it must also be your interest, and that's an offer – don't do it again polemically! [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Then tell us what your concept is! This is really happening to us, because somehow playing the income classes against each other is a little bit. If we talk about the concepts, we use this one year, which may still remain in the government to do something for the population in this difficult phase – because now the economy is running badly and it is being saved everywhere, i.e. there are no government initiatives, like 2009, that you are opposed to it – to help the population to survive this non-indebted wave valley positively in the economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4064	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4085	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating this flat-tax model today and are essentially talking about the wage and income tax and the effect and distribution of it, i.e. how much percent tax pay, et cetera. I think that if one wants to deal seriously, it makes little sense to take out a single tax, but it is about looking at the entire tax system and how it works. If we look at the share of income tax in total tax revenue, then this is about a fifth. That means, of 100 € paid in taxes, are approximately 20 € wage and income tax. So we're talking about a non-essential part, but we're talking about a small part of the total. Once we look at the tax system exactly how it works, we have to distinguish that there are different types of income, namely those who earn their money through work, and the situation where income is generated by capital or wealth income. This is relatively easy to understand in Austria. From 100 € that are earned, approximately 60 € are earned by work, or get those who work 60 €, and get capital and assets about 40 €. The self-employed are of course part of the 60 percent, because they work as well. So that's about income, and that's what you have to say, because the accusation often comes that they wouldn't be there. When we look at the cake, those who work for her get six pieces from the cake. If we now look at how the tax system works on these persons, i.e. workers and self-employed people, then there is a study that has carefully examined this, namely the social state study by the economic research institute, and this is very exciting, which comes out of it, namely that the income of those working for their money is pretty much the same as their tax performance. Indeed, 100 € earned will be paid between 37 and 40 €. The lower income group pays almost none or no wage and income tax – it's true. But they pay relatively much VAT and relatively high social security contributions. And the top income recipients, yes, they pay very, very high income, and wage taxes, however, relatively few VAT or excise duties, relatively few social security contributions. But the whole system is proportional, that is, every group pays in about the same amount. The bottom tenth of the income pyramid pays 38 € per 100 € income, the second 37 – and that is then 38, 39, 37,38 – and the top pays 40 €. This is the result of a large-scale study that has taken a close look at it. I don't know anyone else, and there's no one else in my knowledge that looks at exactly the effect of the overall system. If we were to screw at this one wheel now, what would that lead to? –This would result in a pensioner with 800, 850 € gross monthly pension having to pay double income tax, and someone with a high income – must not be a clubman, there are people who earn more – would pay significantly less. And that's why we reject it. We're looking at how the whole system works, and we're just looking at a part of it. Of course, it would also be very flat, if I were to say now, that means 10 percent of the population is paying 50 percent of income tax. Yes, only 30 percent of the population pay 100 percent of the tobacco tax. Is of course also crazy as an argument, but we need to look at the whole system how it works! In fact, the system does not make a redistribution on the revenue side at all, but the redistribution is carried out exclusively on the expenditure side of the State, through promotions and the like. But in the tax system itself everyone pays in about the same, but only, once again, at the group that goes to work for their income, so those who get six pieces from the cake get 60 percent. And now we are looking at the overall system, which is exciting, so who pays the bill, who pays the taxes overall. This group, which gets six of the ten cakes, pays almost 90 percent of the taxes and taxes in that country. That is, those who work for their money get 60 percent of the cake, but pay 90 percent of the bill. And those who do not work for their money, but have wealth or capital income, get 40 percent of the income in this country, but pay only 10 percent of the bill, namely 10 percent of the taxes. This is really the point where we have to start, and wherever we have been in recent years. If you look at what this Federal Government has done since 2008, it is precisely the following: To reduce taxes and taxes on labour and to increase it to capital and assets. There were important steps in whether this was the bank levy, whether it is the securities-KEST, whether it is the real estate growth tax, whether it was the foundation privilege reduction. There were important steps to see that those who do not work and have income pay more, and for those who work for their money to pay less. The Minister for Finance has said this, the great reduction in income tax and so on. Those were important steps, but certainly not enough. The SPÖ also has the right answers for this essential issue of the real situation in the system: that we must continue to work to ensure that those who do not make a fair contribution today, namely those who have capital and wealth income, make a more just contribution than they do today, and that we can reduce those who go to work for their money. [[Abg. Head: Incomes paid!]] This, I say, is simply the proposals made by the SPÖ – whether this is the millionaire tax, whether it is an inheritance tax for millions of heirs. These are important steps, important contributions, where I hope we can agree here in this House that we can also take these further steps. Finally, I wanted to say to the missing Klubobmann Strache – because he always speaks completely free of facts –: [[call to the FPÖ]] If you say we have the highest tax and tax rate at all, I already have to put one right: It was 42.7 percent in 2008 and has since fallen every year. If you want to see where she was lower, then that was true under Chancellor Gusenbauer, there she was once lower, and the highest we had, when you were in the government, namely, in 2001 at 44.9 percent. [[Call the FPÖ:Falsch!]] [[Abg. Kickl: When was sting in the government?]] [[Abg. Strache: I was never in the Federal Government, but that has memory!]] We now have a falling tax and tax rate for three years in a row. But it would be very important to discuss facts-based here, not just polemizing how you do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4167	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4188	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies on the government bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Settle taxes instead of giving money to banks’ is the title of this question which appears to be urgent from the BZÖ’s point of view. Money gave to banks, yes, that would actually not be reasonable. That's right. But using money to stabilise banks, I think, is necessary and argumentable, because if the American state had stabilized this Bank Lehman Brothers, it would have been extremely cheaper and even better, because we would have been spared such problems, which we have faced worldwide, not only in Europe, but also in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we should hold the following, if it always means “the banks”: Yes, there are some banks, even in Austria, who have and have problems, some, no question at all. And there's a lot to be done. This was also necessary because perhaps the damage would have been even greater, even in its own country. But no bank was given anything. Under these conditions, funds have been and will be made available. And because it was already mentioned who would have received all the means: Ladies and gentlemen, PartCapital has received some banks. For this PartCapital, some banks, which are known, also explicitly as agreed the interest paid, paid the charges. Some should not forget how much the bank levy also affects in certain sectors. [[Abg. Bucher: This is a business for taxpayers!]] I'm just telling you, Mr Bucher: Raiffeisen pays more than €600 million a year with the bank tax – so you know it, taxes, bank charges and so on, over €600 million. Tax optimization, thank you for this note. [[Abg. Bucher: You save yourself a lot of taxes! That's called tax optimization what you're doing!]] Tax-optimized was not your concept today. If you've already talked about performance performance, this concept was not a way of clarifying it. [[Abg. Bucher: I talked about the banks!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Maybe a quick look back: The trigger of this economic and financial crisis was this flop of these Lehman Brothers. And everyone should know that a functioning banking sector is ultimately the blood circulation of the economy. This cycle, this blood circulation must work because it is necessary to provide the economy with loans and funds. We should be proud that we have a functioning economy in Austria, which is much better than the European concert. If we are always talking about benchmark comparisons in other areas, we are looking at the way Austria stands: in budgetary policy, in labour market policy, in compliance with the budget criteria. For example, last year's budget deficit was clearly below the Maastricht criteria at 2.6 percent. [[Abg. Bucher: The deficit is increasing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is clearly better. Austria is one of the best countries in Europe, and then we act as if the world were going down. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can also lament positive things to death, you can. But no one's ever been paid for shame. [[Call the SPÖ:The Farmers' Federation!]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: The Farmers' Federation is paid for!]] And if the economy is also a matter of mood, then we should do everything we can to maintain the positive mood for the economy and thus also for the jobs of Austrian workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us be a little proud that Austria's unemployment is among the lowest in Europe, that Austria's youth unemployment is among the lowest in Europe! Let's be a little proud of it! Let us be a little proud of the export performance of the Austrian economy, which thus also ensures jobs! Ladies and gentlemen, there are many things you can do even better. That's undisputed. But when we compare in Europe, we are clearly among the best – but not your concept.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4328	Mr Themessl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4352	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the audience and in front of the televisions! Mrs. Federal Minister, your key statement was already “less, simpler and more accountable” when you take up your job as Minister of Finance in relation to the tax system. You stress this again in every speech, and the interesting thing is that you have actually given us much of your speech in our arguments. They say: The current tax system is non-performance, it is also not easy and the input tax rate is too high. Yes, Mrs. Federal Minister, why don't you change it? You are the Minister of Finance! It is your place of business, which would be responsible for putting a tax reform on the table, which, of course, also brings discharge to the Austrians. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] They always talk about it and don't do it. Now there are two options: Either your conviction in the government is so low that you cannot convince the socialist partner in the government, and then you do something you don't like to do. And it's clear to everyone of us, a job I'm not convinced of, I can't do it well. And you prove this over the past few months that you are obviously dissatisfied with your job, and that's why you don't do it well. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: I don't know!]] So you'll end this improper cooperation if you're not convinced of what you're saying! Mrs Bundesminister, you have taken a lot of time and have addressed the biggest tax reform in the Second Republic of Josef Pröll, your predecessor. You have taken time to list many, many points, why all this was so good and that you have taken over €3.5 billion to implement a tax reform and tax relief. But what you have not said about it is that the success of the one was that the tax rate has increased by just over 2% over the period, from 42 to 44 percent. [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately, the crane doesn't listen!]] That means, that can't have been so good. Now – I don't know where Kai Jan Krainer has statistics – the OECD predicts that Austria already has a tax rate of 49 percent next year, with an OECD cut of 35 percent! Unfortunately, I don't have as much time as you had, but I also tell you why: Because in recent years, you have charged the Austrians with two load packs of €50 billion by the year 2016. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's it!]] I'm telling you a few things that you might not know anymore, because it's been too long for you: They raised pension insurance contributions twice. They have raised the maximum contribution basis. They have raised the night heavy work allowance. You raised unemployment insurance contributions for older workers, although you wanted to do exactly the opposite. They have enforced the introduction of the resolution. They have enforced the reduction of the construction premium and the provision of the future. They have pre-taxed the pension funds. They have made an increase in the CO2 surcharge on the NOVA and the mineral oil tax and the tobacco tax increase. You have made a huge reduction in family benefits, and you have done a removal of the energy refund. These are just a few examples that I would like to show you here why the tax rate in Austria has increased from 42 percent to 49 percent. We are a top tax country in this EU. And that goes on even further: You have the next attack now. You are now planning to increase the registration fee in the base book, which is to increase in a massive way. [[Abg. Strache: This is really a scandal!]] We're talking about three to seven times. Experts assume that the registration fee increases from three to seven times, depending on the location of the property. [[Call the BZÖ: Madness!]] [[Abg. Strache: It's impossible!]] In addition, as the one who has to carry this out, you also have to determine the transport value yourself. But if you do not have sales and purchase figures, that is, if you are a gift or an inheritance, then you probably have to get an opinion on what is worth it, otherwise you will be fined if you give a wrong traffic value. This is nothing but a hidden reintroduction of the inheritance and gift tax, and I would be ashamed of it, Mrs Finanzminister! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. That's a scandal! Unbelievable! That's how people get shot off again!]] And now we're still coming to your ever-increasing statements, by both government parties, namely: We are the best in Europe. – I have explained to you more often, in the geographical sense, Europe goes to the Ural Mountains. They have not yet heard that Europe is not the euro states, which are not at all, nor the EU. There are also countries in Western Europe with Switzerland and Norway that belong to Europe but do not belong to the EU. - That's it. And then we come to the economic data. These are permanently revised down in the 14-day rhythm. Unemployment rates are rising from month to month; we have almost reached the 2009 limit. Then you're talking about inflation: We have the slightest inflation. – We have 2.6% inflation; when purchasing weekly, inflation is already over 4 percent, and it will rise to 5 percent by the end of the year. And then the seniors still go here and sell it as a success if you increase pensions by 1.8 percent. That is, they have a yearly income wound of 3 to 5 percent, and there is the question of how long they will last. In the meantime, we have 1 million Austrians who are no longer able to date 30 or 31 days with what they earn in the month. – And you are saying we are the best in Europe?- Oh, my God! Then I will tell you something about the “success story” of the euro. Do you know that the best economic countries in Europe do not have the euro? Two of them do not even belong to the EU, those are Switzerland and Norway! Then we still have Sweden here, then we still have Denmark, and then we still have Poland, which has very good economic data. And everyone together does not have the euro, the “success euro”, which you always highlight here as a peace project. [[Abg. Strache: Now he speaks the story of success badly! That's it!]] One more thing: Poland and the Czechs wanted to introduce the euro next year. Yeah, what do you think they don't do that? Because he's so successful? – No, they have delayed this for an indefinite period of time, because it is not a success! And I'll tell you one thing: The euro in the current form and the way in which you defend it and do everything you can and pump money into it in order to make it right, that is not a peace project, nor a preservation of the peace project, but exactly the opposite. This threatens peace in Europe, you just haven't understood it yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4513	Now comes Mr Mag. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4534	Madam President. High house! There has already been a lot of talk about a performance-based tax system. That's what I'm for. We cannot be proud of this, Mr Auer, that we do not have it. Many others have, but we certainly cannot be proud of that. Nor can we be proud that Austria has one of the world's most uneven asset distributions. Yes, one of the most uneven wealth distributions! This inhibits equal opportunities in our country, which has shown us a study of the Austrian National Bank, which was published on Monday. If you shake your head: [[towards ÖVP]] I'd like to make this available to you. It's just a few pages. [[the speaker holds up a bundle of documents]] Please read it! It would be very illuminating for you – very bright also in view of the fact that you at last would be burdening the middle class with wealth taxes from the claim agreement, to say that if they were introduced. Looking at the results of the asset study, it turns out once again that wealth has nothing to do with the middle class or the middle class, but also nothing to do with it. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: What do you want to tax?]] From this study recently presented, it can be calculated that the lowest 50 percent of households in this country have a maximum of 5 percent of total net assets – up to 5 percent of total net assets! The top 10 percent of households have at least 50 percent of total net assets. In other words, it could be said that the top 10 percent of households own half of Austria. That's how it looks! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now this is not a study carried out by left-wings, but by the Austrian National Bank, together with the European Central Bank and many other states, audited by the European Central Bank, reviewed by top experts from the USA, the Federal Reserve Bank, the top asset researchers. Therefore, one cannot say that these are results that one cannot take note of. But what we can say is that the assets are still far underestimated – and it has reasons why the assets are underestimated: On the one hand, the assets of the foundation are not included – we simply don't know anything about it – and on the other hand billionaires keep their true income situation silent. We know from the “trend” list that only the 50 richest in Austria have € 105 billion. The OeNB study says that in Austria we have a net assets of about one trillion, so 10 percent of the top 50 millionaires in this country alone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And a third element, why this is underestimated, that's the tax relief. And what is Austria doing, what is our wife's Minister of Finance? – With an agreement between Austria and Switzerland, our Mrs Finanzminister undermines the fight of EU countries against tax evasion. It refuses, together with Luxembourg, the automatic exchange of information under the Interest Tax Directive, and what is scandalous is that these tax evasions are also granted a tax amnesty! You have to break that on your tongue! This is an increase in tax-honoured tax, and it has nothing to do with fair taxation, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With this procedure, Mrs Minister, you are becoming the patron saint of organized millions of tax evasion! That's the truth! If you want more tax justice in this country, you have to stand for a tax pact: a tax pact, which, at first, includes harmonisation at European level, which leads to corporate taxation, which leads to capital taxation, but which also involves an honest fight against tax havens. These tax havens must finally be drained. It also includes higher taxation of assets. That's not where we are, Mrs. Minister, as you are saying. A rate of income tax of 50 percent, by the way, with the deduction of 13th and 14ths. salary is only 43 percent, has to do with the taxation of assets zero. That's where we talk about income; I'm talking about wealth and the taxation of assets. [[Abg. Strache: But with income, wealth is generated! Do you want to...?]] One of the most important, namely the second most important, source of wealth – read the report, Mr Strache; also for you very useful! – that is, the second most important source of assets for the creation of assets is the inheritance, and therefore the reintroduction of inheritance taxation needs to be reintroduced. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Yes, did they steal this before?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Then we can think about an integrated tariff, but not a flat tax formula. In the previous year, we estimated a tariff starting with 17 percent input tax rate, which has an average tax rate of 35 and ends at 50 percent – costing € 2 billion. This could be counter-financed, for example, by reducing or abolishing environmentally harmful subsidies and more, which would lead to an average reduction of all incomes of € 320. You see, Mrs Minister, if you want to and if you are willing to do something for performance justice, you can do something too. One last point: The banks. – For the banks, we have so far placed €6 billion in sand in Austria, including the increase in equity for the hypo, Mr. Bucher and Mr. Stache, of which €4 billion is for a bank in Carinthia: the Hypo Alpe-Adria. If the Republic had not picked up this bank, the country would have pleaded – and Carinthia would have participated in it. [[Abg. Strache: Had it had to pay the Bavaria!]] [[Abg. Strache: That's the sourry, you left the Bayern out of the responsibility!]] This means, however, that if we continue to do so, taxpayers will continue to be asked to cash. What is necessary, however, is that we are finally restructuring our banking system – in the EU, but also in Austria. And in Austria you can do some homework: A bank insolvency right would be urgently needed. We must not wait for the directive to be implemented in the European Union, Mrs Minister! And I would ask you to fulfill the promise you gave us in the negotiations. So, with a bank insolvency right, which ensures that creditors and owners and not the taxpayers continue to be used to save the banks! [[Abg. Bucher: Speculation banks!]] If this is not created and if the banks continue to know that they will be caught by the state – so if the morale of Hazard can continue to operate – then the soccer will continue with the banks, and that must be put to an end! Mrs Minister, you will be working in this sense! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4698	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4719	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You and your party, together with the Minister of Finance, do not want to enter into a competition for the tax-inventive parties and movements. But I would rather praise my colleague Bucher and the BZÖ, for we are thinking about how we can relieve people, and not how we can always introduce new taxes, just as you have now demanded. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann holds up a bunch of documents.]] This is almost as bad as – and I am now deliberately overdoing, my colleague – as if, from your point of view, heirs would soon be something punishable. You would prefer not only to tax it, but also to punish it, because it is inappropriate for someone to pass on taxed assets. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: The inheritance tax is related to the process of inheritance!]] We're not playing with that. This is a strange approach to the distribution of assets that we do not share. But, Mrs Minister, what I do not understand from you is the following: Now there has been a light view in June 2011, where you actually – Herbert Scheibner has already quoted it; all of us, when you said that, have been able to breathe, the big throw is coming: the big throw of the tax system change and the tax relief. And in the interview you yourself said that the flat tax is imaginable for you, and you also explained what this so-called integrated single tax rate is for you, namely the merger of income tax rates with social security contributions. You still explained that! It's not like we invented that, but you announced it as a big throw at the time. And that's why today, more than a year later, you get the big accusation from us that you haven't implemented it for a year and that in the interviews you apparently didn't mean it either that way, wanted to distract from anything or just sold people for stupid. This is our accusation here today, because you cannot, on the one hand, ask what we have been demanding for a long time, what we are calling for today, and then today we are saying: Well, it wasn't meant, it doesn't work! This is not a sustainable policy, Mrs Minister! That's very strange. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And you know what I can't hear again, Mrs Minister, and that's already very cynical, and some social democrats have said that today, but you say it all the time: I really wonder what prosperity there is. You actually speak when you constantly speak of the “keeping of prosperity. ” Now I admit that we are probably living here and also the members of the government and many people in prosperity, but that is getting less and less, Mrs Minister! Not only because we have more than a million people at the poverty line, but also because poverty has now arrived in the middle class and is increasingly addressing itself in the middle class – and you know that very well! If you are talking about prosperity today, for many people it is simply cynicism at the high fuel prices that you have to account for, for example, due to the increase in mineral oil tax. You've now listed some goodies you've done rudimentary, just what you've achieved in terms of loads and cuts in the last package you've worked out last year, that's what you've almost kept silent. This concerns the mass tax on mineral oil which you have increased, which has cost all mobility, or that is the removal of family allowances. You have penetrated into the family allowance system very deeply and have removed family allowances, Mrs Minister, don't forget that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The government that you belong to has shortened pensions by deleting the increase in the first year, and you have shortened with the weakest, among the most socially weak, by shortening the care allowance, Mrs. Minister. You didn't say it all today! – They have been reduced in the social field and have increased 13 taxes. That is the balance of your government, and it is not praiseworthy, and that is not a success balance, Mrs Minister, because people feel it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then the colleague Cap comes out and tries to argue with some figures and balance sheets against another balance sheet: Well, yes, but real wages haven't sunk yet, but they have risen!, then okay, a balance sheet hunts the other one, but go out once – and the colleague union chief knows that – to the people and ask them once if they have felt a real wage increase in recent years! They will chase you away with the wet sluggish, because they have not felt a real wage increase, but they are suffering from your policy: under the high tax policy, under the tax rate and under all the burdens that you have stopped them. They lose income and therefore have less and less to live. And that is why this system, which Josef Bucher has developed, is a right system that relieves lower incomes with which performance is promoted, with which purchasing power is created. – Yes, when, if not now – in times of crises and in times of declining economic growth – do we have to allow purchasing power through tax reduction and a uniform tax? – Now it is necessary, that is why the time that Josef Bucher has chosen here is also quite right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we say that this model is simply the right model for a stuttering economic engine – to lower taxes, also to ensure more tax justice. In the last few months and years, you have only lived to save banks – the bank rescue was important to you – to save the euro – that was important – but you may at least think about saving the citizens and their incomes and the financial situation in the country just before a vote at least once that there would be something more important to do after bank rescue and euro rescuing, namely to save the citizens and their income and the financial situation through a reasonable, fair, fair and, above all, reliable tax system. Because that's what it's like: It's reliable, it's detectable, it's comprehensible, and we've seen it fit on a beer lid. It is a tax system that will be the future at the end – whether you want it or not – because, at the latest after the next election, after which you will be more decimated, there may be other majorities in this House, which will then enable the implementation of this future-oriented and correct tax model by Josef Bucher and BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4816	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4837	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go any closer and more intensive about the UBS study, which has been addressed here today both in the urgent request and by some of the speakers. This has nevertheless been vexed by both the Wifo and the IHS, and the seriousness of this study has to be very questionable. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about real wages?]] [[Abg. Strache: What you don't fit, you try to do away with!]] - I'll be right there. I would like to quote the economic accounts of Statistics Austria. According to the National Accounts of Statistics Austria, between 2000 and 2010 wages and salaries rose net by 34 percent. After deduction of inflation – we call it net real – they increased by 13 percent. Now I'm saying, Okay, I'm not saying it could have been more because the growth at that time was inflation-adjusted 16 percent, but to say that the people have 35 percent minus, and to put everything down as if it were going down the stream is of course a kohlrabi, and everybody who deals with these things knows that! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The gross domestic product!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Kohl... Kohlrabi!]] [[Call:What do you have against Kohlrabi]] We are currently having intensive negotiations – especially at the hour – in the metal sector between trade unions and employers' associations: a very, very difficult round of negotiations, where some believe they can use the situation to "snail" workers. And there too we will show that what she imagines will not come. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The BZÖ brochure on the flat tax of the summer of 2011 included a flat tax of 44 percent; today the urgent request mentions the “Fair Tax”, which is 39 percent. I don't know what the reason for these changes is, perhaps you want to share a bit with other competitors, who have now also joined the plan – should be. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a further development!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] No matter, the point is: Both in the brochure of a year ago and today, it does not count – and that has already been said – what the whole story costs, how counter-financing looks like. [[Abg. Bucher: Outcome-neutral!]] But what is exciting and what has not been worked out and mentioned is that in this flat-tax model there is also a so-called business tax of 25 percent and that there is a determination that profit distributions are tax-free. Now it is possible to break down on the tongue as a normal worker/normal worker: The flat tax is expected to be 44 or 39 percent, the business tax for companies is 25 percent, and profit distributions are tax-free. – If you take the word “fair” into your mouth in this model, then I am not angry, ladies and gentlemen, but no one understands that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a privilege program for self-employed and wealthy people and nothing else. [[Abg. Booker: What do we have now?]] I am very grateful to the Minister for Finance that she has given a clear opinion on social security, which is financed by contributions, and has also raised no doubt as to how we stand. If all employers' contributions to social security and pay-related payments are reduced by 20 percent, as proposed in the BZÖ paper, then the consequences for health insurance and pension insurance are very, very massive. I believe that it is clear – and above all there is a broad social consensus in this House too – that the joint contribution-oriented financing in pension insurance, supplemented by a so-called federal grant, is the social security model that we want and want in the future in Austria, and that we do not want to develop models so that some of the funding of social security can be found and that workers, taxpayers and taxpayers as a whole can hang out. Fair, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true if there is to be a redistribution within the workers and how this is proposed. The term “fair” can be used when dealing with the wrong position in the tax system when labour is relieved and when the big assets also have a corresponding contribution. It has already been pointed out in the National Bank study today. It has been made a lot towards more justice in recent years, but it is too little. The fight for fair taxation and capital taxation must continue. If the poorest have 10 percent below €1,000, if three quarters have less than €250 000 and if 10 percent have at least € 542,000 on the scale open to the top, this is proof of how few households are actually affected by the property tax. With an exemption of 500 000, that would be 15 percent of households, with 700 000 much less. With 1 million free, this would only be a handful of super rich. Whoever claims that wealth taxes are medium-sized taxes, is actually a Robin Hood of the super-rich, and we will continue to demask that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e4991	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5012	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to oppose Mr Themessl: We have an excellent Minister of Finance, who knows what it means to be Minister of Finance, and how the taxpayers' money is very gentle! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thankfully, we have already talked a lot about tax reduction today. In the last 10 minutes there has been a small nod towards tax increases, but we have already talked a lot about tax cuts, and I think that's the right way. In principle, we are also in favour of tax reductions, but at the right time, if you can afford them. At the moment, we all know that the tax rate is astronomically high, and the system of income and wage taxes is also somewhat opaque. The Minister has already mentioned it, up to €11 000 is not paid at all, from 11 000 with a stroke of 36.5%. We certainly need a reform. Secondly, we have a fast-paced progression that is burdening the middle class because the maximum tax rate of 50 percent is already up at €60 000 in income. I think we need reform here, too, and we have already discussed that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we now look forward to a certain economic downturn, we must do something for growth, and we will do something for it. We from the economy want motivated and satisfied employees. The employer, Mr Katzian, does not want to “snail” anyone, I would like to say quite clearly, but it is a matter of creating a good solution for our employees together in this year’s wage negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We must therefore try to reduce taxes, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. No one who strives and does anything can be punished for it. The corporate tax reduction in 2005 has shown very impressively [[Abg. Hagen: 2005 has been a bit long!]] One can reduce taxes and thus increase the tax revenue. This is the right way, and we will continue to do so. We have taken on responsibility and have taken on an efficient consolidation path, ladies and gentlemen, which we must continue to pursue consistently, because we owe it to the next generations that we do not leave a future of debt, but a future of opportunity. This is very important for the next generation. So if we are talking about a tax reform, we need an overall reform, an overall reform that promotes performance that is simple and transparent, and above all a tax reform that we can also afford – and this does not seem to be the case with the BZÖ model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With a modern tax system we strengthen our business location, and this business location Austria is characterized by innovative entrepreneurs, from which good cooperation with the hard-working employees and from the good cooperation between the large industrial companies and the small and medium-sized enterprises. According to statistics, SMEs employ over 2 million people for the first time in history. This makes small and medium-sized entrepreneurs the largest employer in this country. I therefore believe that they deserved appreciation, that we should not put new burdens on them. It's about the location, and it's about jobs in Austria, and when we talk about new taxes, then the poison is for the location and for jobs, and only the investors are not sure. Ladies and gentlemen! A strong economy is certainly also a stable banking economy. A successful economy needs strong banks, otherwise there will be no room for loans and investments in the future. Especially the regional banks – those who come from the regions know that – are strong partners of the economy, are very important for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Austria. Mr Bucher is not here now, but I must remind him that we decided unanimously on this bank package in 2008 in the National Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the time, everyone was convinced of the need for this step – leaving this path now is cheaper populism, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Hagen: At that time you told us something quite different than you did! You must admit that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are also in favour of simplifying the system. Our system today has become complicated and in many things – that has already been implemented – it has become unreadable. On average, Austrian entrepreneurs need 170 hours for a tax matter, the Swiss colleagues need only 63 hours. With simplification in this area, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is on the right track. We do not need new taxes, nor new property taxes, nor inheritance taxes, but we simply need an attractive offer for entrepreneurs that they can secure and manage jobs, so we need tax instead of tax! [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, never!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5119	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5140	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Haubner and Mr Klubobmann of the ÖVP spoke about this: We need a tax relief, we need a tax reduction, we need a tax reform! Who, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, prevents you from reducing taxes? Who prevents you from burdening the Austrians? You have been placing the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Finance for decades, and nothing of what you have been talking about today at the speaker's desk has happened so far! That is why, I believe, it is important that we speak today, at the request of the BZÖ, about the various models of discharge of the Austrians. Personally, I only regret that we are not doing this with the attention we need. The Members' series are shaky, no journalist takes part in this debate! When we decided on the ESM when it came to deciding on taxation for the Austrians, the attention and co-tuning by SPÖ and ÖVP were great! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] What we have to decide today is directly related to the ESM, because the Austrian taxpayers now have to subsidise the low tax countries via the ESM, and this should be considered carefully. Austria – we have already discussed it today – is a highest tax country with a tax rate of 42 percent. The donation of the Austrian share of the ESM is done by the Austrian taxpayers – well, of course – that is, we subsidise with our tax performance in reality those countries that have a much lower tax and tax rate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein]] Let us look at examples of this! Greece: 31 percent, Austria: 42 percent, Ireland: 28 percent, Spain: 31 percent. That is to say, all those countries that use the ESM, their population, their companies are much less burdened than Austria. In other words, our taxpayers indirectly finance those taxes that are made in these aid-seeking countries, such as Greece, Ireland, Spain and cetera. I would perhaps like to make this clear in the example of Cyprus. The maximum tax rate from income tax is 30 percent, compared to that in Austria: 50 percent. VAT is reduced by only 15 per cent; for comparison: 20 percent in Austria. With 10 percent, Cyprus raises the lowest corporate tax across the EU. At the same time, Cyprus is one of the next candidates to take advantage of the ESM funds, i.e. funds that we co-finance. It cannot, however, be the government's task to ensure that we indirectly finance tax havens, that we indirectly also finance those states that do not use the required hardness to drive the taxes of companies, of private persons – as is the case in Greece, for example! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Es cannot be the responsibility of the government to subsidize Cypriot letterbox companies, Greek tax evasions and similar phenomena by the tax revenue of our people! This is a burden on the Austrians, through three points which I would like to address now. One is the relief of the factor work, which is urgently required, the second the relief of families by our model of family division and the third, above all, the reduction of cold progression, which takes place. We liberals are particularly committed to an attractive and family-friendly tax system, because it is actually the families that will no longer be able to afford life in Austria in the future. It is simply a question of confessing that we get away from individual taxation, to a tax division, because it actually recognises the benefits of the families, partly also the single parent who has a child, and similar family associations to counteract further discrimination against the family. In my view, a relief from the factor of work is also indispensable, because it is mainly the medium-sized and the workers who are in fact responsible for developing this massive tax revenue. The free borders on the municipal tax, the service provider's contribution to the family tax compensation and the supplement to the service provider's allowance must be significantly increased. These are core demands that we raise liberals. And, of course, the tax rate, which is negative in the budget – as has already been said today – is to be achieved through an urgent administrative reform, through savings in the public sector, which are also provided by the Court of Auditors on a monthly basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5232	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5253	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said about tax justice. I think it is our task, as politicians, to work for justice, for justice between different topics, groups and interests. On tax issues, of course, we can talk about which taxes are to be reduced for whom and whatever taxes there must be on the other hand and which may even have to be increased, and I say it immediately: Our system – which should now be known to you – is the model of eco-social tax reform, a comprehensive system, especially a holistic system, because, as I believe, we are facing systemic problems that we can only address in a holistic way. Individual measures will not help us. It doesn't help when we turn a wheel there and turn a wheel there, but nothing changes on the system. It does not help to put in place individual discharge measures which work in the short term, but do not change the problem in itself. It does not help if we put in place individual tax measures, which could perhaps be put on a green coat, but will not be changed in the overall system. We face major challenges in our economic system, in the social system and, above all, in the ecosystem, I would also like to know this as a green one. I am convinced that we are not will be able to cope if we play one against the other. This will only be possible if there are holistic solutions. If you talk to people, I think you can also say that they are uncertain because the whole of the problems is not really addressed. It is, I believe, clear that the economic system is no longer working so well, but it is also known to many that we can no longer accept the exploitation we have been operating for decades in our ecosystem. That is why it is also incomprehensible for people to put in place individual measures, especially since it is not even clear what the aim is to achieve. I am convinced that we have the task of providing honest information, also to say honestly what the problems and the challenges are, clearly, to propose our actions, to propose our concepts that address the problem in a holistic way. Then the citizens, I think, are very willing to bring them along. As has been said, we want to address it holisticly. This means taxing environmental damage, waste of energy, taxing work for it. I do not think it is appropriate for the citizen to see that his own labour force should be taxed higher than, for example, environmental damage or energy waste or the work of a machine. It is not to be seen that the general public should pay for environmental damage and not the contaminants. It is also not to be seen that taxpayers pay for environmentally harmful subsidies and then cover the costs caused by such environmental damage over their tax performance. I think these are all justice issues, because we need a lot more aspects of justice in our system. It has already been a lot of general concepts, but I have not actually heard any eco-spects anywhere. We obviously need greens to do this. I would therefore like to say quite clearly that, when we talk about reforms, we must not forget about tax reforms and other reforms, even in times of the economic crisis, in times of economic challenges, that there is also an ecosystem, an ecosystem that is the basis for our economies. If we break the ecosystem, the economic system will not work. We also face major challenges in the ecosystem, such as climate crisis or the shortage of raw materials. Therefore my appeal to take all of this into account and also to take a look at our concept of environmental tax reform! We would like to make it available to you to finally address this. Not least because of this, I believe – and I believe that according to the recent results of the U Committee, it is no longer just environmental stakeholders who are interested in this opinion – that: Austria needs an independent, strong and independent Ministry of the Environment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5308	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5330	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Reduce taxes instead of giving money to banks. – Not only does that rub itself, but it hits the nail on the head, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The fact is that only the fastest possible tax reduction can ensure the necessary economic recovery, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise Austria is heading towards recession. There are fewer and fewer jobs. Citizens no longer have money at their disposal. You deserve less and less. Mrs. Minister! Today, they have expressed their support for being the lawyer of the executives in Austria. So these performers will thank you if they pursue your policy! I think they will release you from the responsibility of the mandate, at the latest at the next election, because this policy you are making here in the tax area is in no way family-friendly, is in no way there is any way that citizens can have more money in their pocket and spend more money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Our BZÖ model “Fair Tax” with a uniform tax rate of 39 percent and an exemption of € 11 000 has already been explained and explained in detail today. This model is social, fair, just and family friendly. I believe that with these words, Mrs Minister, you can go in conformity, which you have repeatedly given of yourself in your speeches. You mentioned it again today. That is why I do not understand why you do not really deal with this model directly and specifically. Also addressed to the SPÖ side: Klubobmann Cap is always talking about the fact that there are no proposals from the opposition parties, no constructive suggestions. We presented a model here today by means of a urgent request. What did you do on the part of your group? – You have made frenzied speeches and made more or less fun of it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Why should everyone have the same tax...?]] You have made yourself more or less funny, and you seem to believe that only studies – if I can speak to my colleague Katzian – I do not see him here now – that you are ordering yourself and that you know before what will be the result. For it is a fact that there is this study by the Swiss UBS bank, which just says that over the past ten years, since the introduction of the euro, not only has there been an increase in wages, but not only has wages not increased, but real wages have even fallen to 35 percent! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You can't just wipe it off the table like that. Because this study doesn't fit you, you just say, it can't do anything, it's already been broken, it's not right, it's not right. – That can’t be done, and that’s not an honest policy! I am also pleased that ladies and gentlemen, who are a little less represented here on the crowd, but who are at home in front of the television screens – I am sure – are able to form their own opinion today, and can also see and follow what the representatives of the parties of Red and Black give of themselves when it comes to the money of taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen! If we take a short look at Greece and Spain: Do we soon have such conditions as there? Do we also have a hot autumn like in Madrid, where 85 000 people go to the street, where every fourth person is unemployed, ladies and gentlemen? - No, that's not funny! This is a fact, and this is a problem for the Austrians, whom we have to solve here in Parliament. We must ensure tax relief, we must secure jobs! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The banking sector has already been mentioned today. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: What is the unemployment rate?]] – You are welcome to speak, my dear colleague, and then here from the speaker’s desk give something from you, but not so unqualified calls from the first row. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: With the unemployment rate...!]] The banks have earned well in the crisis. They deserved well with the money they had received from the governments. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be right there. It is also becoming increasingly difficult with the ECB, and the new President Draghi will not change anything about it. This one comes, as you know, from the Goldman-Saxon area. [[Abg. Bucher: (in the direction of the square of Abg. May. Prammer Busy Abg. May. Schickhofer) Calls only from his speaker's place!]] What role Goldman Sachs played in the Greek crisis would be worth a meeting of his own, because here is a lot in the dark, is very much in the arrogance. The banks are certainly not protected by us: Enough paid for corrupt banks!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5455	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. Time left: 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5477	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Schenk! I do not know whether the question of whether you know how high the unemployment rate is is an unqualified call. I'd doubt that once! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] But at the same time I have to tell you that you are cheating, because this urgent request, your so-called new tax model is nothing but a slightly modified flat tax, which we have known from you for a long time in the house and which is known. You want to tax up to €11 000 a tax rate of 10 percent and all about it with 39 percent, or for companies you have even thought of a privileged tax rate of 25 percent. This means that income between €1500 and €10,000 per month will be treated equally. You should actually know: If one treats the same thing, the inequality will only be reinforced, and that is unfair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A pensioner with 800 € pension monthly would pay twice as many charges today according to your model, namely 550 € more than today. [[Abg. Booker: Don't repeat the same nonsense!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] You just need to calculate that! This will be easy to expect: 5 per cent health insurance against 10 per cent in your model. I'm sure you'll know. [[Abg. Booker: Such a fool! She doesn't pay for anything!]] For this, however, a top earner with 8 000 € per month would save around 5 300 € in taxes. So: The poor pensioner with 800 €, as you would say, would pay 550 € more, but the top earner with 8,000 € would pay 5 300 € less. [[Abg. Bucher: Where did you get this?]] We call that unfair, and this is rather an serving to the political intentions of the billionaire Stronach, but not a fair policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Bucher: Where did this come from? Which model is that?]] That's gonna be a rejection from us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] They of the BZÖ pursue the intention to relieve the rich massively, although the recent study of the Oesterreichische National Bank proves that there is a serious gap in the distribution of assets. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... supports in Styria? Stronach was!]] I would like to remind you, Mr President, if you have been calling in there all the time: 11 percent of households have a wealth of more than €500 000, making them the lion’s share of private property! I would also like to mention the gender differences in income, even though it is primarily a business task not to discriminate against women in pay and to increase fairness to women. But a tax model that also prefers rich to charge small incomes will not exist with the SPÖ! In contrast to BZÖ, we want to improve the social state with fairer funding, effective control of tax evasion as well as the persecution of tax fraud and tax evasion. The recent study shows the need for a real property tax that my colleague Katzian has already addressed. This would not affect the majority of the population, especially the so-called middle class, of these taxes, but would at the same time benefit from the social state's services, from education to care. So: Pensioners with an income of 800 € per month to pay and top earners with 8,000 € per month – no, thank you, not with us! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5619	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5640	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rossmann spoke today of a bank insolvency. There has also been a number of words on one committee or another in recent times and on this subject too. Perhaps Mr Rossmann, whom I am not seeing right now, should tell people honestly the truth, who are the creditors of such a bank insolvency. It is primarily the savers and at the same time the taxpayers! [[Abg. May. Stefan: First of all the shareholders!]] If you demand such a thing, you have to keep this in mind again and again. But Mr Katzian, too, has said something remarkable today about the property tax he always praises. I believe that we ourselves, who are employees' representatives, know that other allowances are being put into play here again and again, once again 300 000, once 750 000, one million euros. I think you should really think about whether we do not scatter sand into people's eyes. In any case, we are not entitled to property taxes! For us, it is a value to leave the children and children property behind and not to crush everything themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But an inheritance tax...!]] Thankfully, there is now, at last, a real calculation on a beer lid, which has repeatedly propagated State Secretary Finz in the times of the black and blue government in the tax reform 2004/2005. This time they really exist, and I can only say: Somehow one tends to find that first and foremost at once good. First: It's easy. Secondly, One has a great savings per year at an income of €2,000, where one can say, well, that would actually be the middle class. I am only honestly concerned about our social ratio, which we have at least 30 percent in Austria and where I cannot imagine, as in this system of the “fair tax” with 39 percent then also for the Social system remains a little bit, without our indebtedness again. Then, of course, we also have to say where we want to obtain funds in addition. [[Abg. Bucher: We said!]] But I would like to tell you a lot about the request itself, Mr Bucher. They are talking about a child drop-off amount, which you really call “KAB”, which is to be set at €9 000 a year and per child. I don't know if you've overlooked it, but there's already the amount of child dropout: He is paid with the family allowance. That is, if so, then you would have to join our demand – at least you could do so – for a minimum of tax-free living per careless family member. I tell you, I cannot join your system because I do not want people with the same income but with different obligations to pay the same tax. We want families with children to pay less taxes. We don't want to... – It doesn't come out here. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] In principle, this is not the case. Nor do we want to, I say, that people who are sick will not be able to put an exceptional tax burden on people who are disabled in the future. We do not want the commuters, who are not only burdened by charges, that they know God as long as they sit in the car or on the train, but also where families are burdened by having to buy so long driving times, to be financially as well as those who are not commuters. That means we won't get together. In conclusion: I believe that our employees' representatives are sometimes different from those who would like to have a class struggle and have introduced new taxes. I am already in favour of one-person companies that benefit small and medium-sized enterprises taxably. I am also in favour of something being considered here because I want us to create jobs. But what you are calling for already exists: the promotion of one-person companies, valid until 31.12.2013; the wage additional costs in the first year for the first employee free. There's already, maybe you'll think of something else. You see, when we are in the government and put the finance ministers, there are very good concepts. The Minister for Finance will present an overall approach. Of course, we need a lot more... The Income Tax Act is from 1988, each time we put a pack on it again. It belongs to newly designed and changes the system. I agree with the Minister for Finance that we will be happy to support her. Please support us, too, and we would be very pleased!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5718	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. Time left: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5739	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This is a “beinhard business”, a “beinhard business” for the Austrian taxpayer: In the spring of 2009, the then Vice Chancellor and Minister of Finance of the ÖVP, Josef Pröll, praised the bank rescue with these words. “Beinhart” was really just the unfrozenness with which we have been pulled over the table here by Mr. Ex-Minister, the now state hunter-master of Lower Austria, the professionally wondrous under the gable cross of Raiffeisen- Group has been accommodated. “Blöd”, “fig” and “unthinkable” are the politicians, then the “first” general Treichl has been given thanks. Almost 12 billion in payments, almost 10 billion in liabilities have cost the bank rescue so far. The Court of Auditors – you have probably read the report – now expects a loss of 4.8 billion, the Chamber of Labour even worth €6 billion. Thank you very much for this “beinhard business”, Mr. Landesjagermeister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With liabilities, outsourced debt, country debt, municipal debt, EU assets, banks, ÖBB, ASFINAG – the list is not complete, I need more time – our government debt is now already up to a hundred percent of the gross domestic product: about €300 billion! The tax rate is 43 percent and it will continue to rise in the next few years. So let's write it down again. Red and Black, despite a 43 percent tax rate, they managed to generate debt of €300 billion! The trend is continuing to rise, rising both in taxes and in debt. This means that you have the highest government debt of all time while at the same time having the highest tax burden of all times. This too is a “hard business”, that must be done first! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, Mrs Tamandl, SPÖ and ÖVP decide to reduce family allowances, in the case of the multi-children's allowance, at 13. Family allowance, care allowance and on the other hand increase mineral oil tax, tobacco tax, nova, ticket tax and the like. So, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, it would be really high time to decide on a fair tax system. You're right. Just, I'm sorry if you get your...
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5791	Excuse me, Mr Cot: A motion for a resolution has been announced. You've got about half a minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5806	Let's take it a short time: If you're going through your concept, then you'll find that a certain Austro-Canadian who's said to pay €2 million in taxes would save half a million. That's not it! Really fair would be quite different: if you really made a fair tax concept. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The ECB's unruly inflationary policy will help to further increase inflation in Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: Where is the application now?]] This inflation is really at the expense of the small people. [[Abg. Silhavy: The speaking time!]] I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Haider, Elmar Podgorschek, Alois Graururd and other Members concerning the request by the Federal Government to appeal to the ECJ, the European Court of Justice for infringement of the ECB's Treaty. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr President! Talk time!]] The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to bring an action against the European Central Bank (ECB) before the European Court of Justice as it carries out independent financing of Member States' budgets by acquiring government bonds on the secondary market, which is to be regarded as circumventing the ban on monetary budget financing and as a financing by the central bank. [[Abg. Silhavy: Talk time! That's a terrible thing!]] Furthermore, by the condition of buying bonds only if the State concerned accepts and fulfils the requirements of the ESM, the ECB is directly dependent on the Board of Governors of the ESM, which violates Article 7 (independentness) of the Statute of the ECB. The ECB therefore infringes both the European Treaties (Articles 123 and 282 TFEU) and its own Statute (Art. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)......................................................................................................................................................... Thank you for the forbearance.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5897	The application is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e5979	Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6000	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At 2 minutes I can only say one thing I had a certain expectation before this urgent request, before this special meeting, and it was actually fully fulfilled. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There's no need to unpack the paper at all!]] The expectation was differentiated. Once I was very pleased about the headline of this special meeting: Tax reduction instead of giving banks money. That's what I thought: There's no way you can show the difference between government responsibility and opposition policy. Wonderful, was fully fulfilled! Government means taking on responsibility, even in unpleasant situations! If a bank's in front of it, it's not very funny. You have to react quickly, you have to take money into your hands. You want to protect the saver, you want to protect the economy, you want to get the trust. You have to act quickly, that is to say, take responsibility. Opposition policy means – and this is pure demagogy, pure populism, dear Sepp Bucher – simply to say: [[Abg. Bucher:...but not!]] Banks are given money. By the way, the banks have already paid several hundred million liability fees to dividends. So there's nothing there! Furthermore, we already insist that this is not a question of either-or, but rather a question of both-and-and-all. You need to save banks to maintain confidence and stabilise the financial market. Of course we also have to reduce taxes! But not the way it is done now. And to call that “Fair Tax”, dear friend Bucher: A “fair tax” on debt, on debt? That is, we have the advantages of tax reduction, and our children are funding it once by paying back debts? – This is the opposite of a “fair tax”. This is a most unfair “fair tax”! [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The financing concept: It is financed by the banks not getting money by not saving the banks. And the form of financing: The Minister of Finance, calculated by the Ministry of Finance, pays 20 billion at the touch of a button by means of an administrative reform. Dear Sepp Bucher! Honestly, I'm actually disappointed. My expectation was not fulfilled because I have already assumed that you have a certain minimum degree of seriosity. I was disappointed!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6059	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6081	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Dear Frank!]] I would like to join with my colleague, Mr Haider, who reminded us all of this: It was in the spring of 2009, when the former Finance Minister Pröll meant that nothing would be donated, but the state money would only be donated. For the taxpayer, it is a “hard business. ” There are around €21 billion in banking aid in the room: €3.5 billion for direct capital grants, €4.1 billion as voiceless shares, i.e. as participation capital, € 14.3 billion for liabilities and guarantees, which can be beaten at any time, and then, of course, for bonds. So that means: The hard business, as the Finance Minister Pröll said, is not so lucrative. And that banking aid can still be a business, I think we can already rule out. Of course, we can now say that there has been revenue. Of course, there has been revenue. The annual liability fee and the participation capital have brought €1.8 billion into the cash register. We would rather not talk about the lost capital subsidies or the credit financing costs of €4.1 billion. So that means: The financial genius of the time is active in Raiffeisen today and has left the Austrians a loss of €2.3 billion. There you can only say: Thank you, Mr Pröll. In addition to the advertising icons such as Federal Chancellor Faymann or Minister Berlakovich, who likes to use tax funds to satisfy her ego, we also have a Finance Minister who, as I think, can no longer afford Austria. We must also remember, however, that there is no comment from Mrs Federal Minister Schmied on the question why, under her activity, credit default insurance has doubled to at least €7 billion. There is also no comment from her on the € 2 billion paid by the Austrians for the municipal loan. There is also no comment on the €6 billion liability and probably no comment on the highly risky financial transactions that have led the KA financial to ruin more or less. – There too you can only say: Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. What happened to me today is the mention of FIMBAG. FIMBAG, which is actually responsible for managing banking aid and for banking participation, is now also criticised by the Court of Auditors. There you can read: "A number of conditions have been decided on for the banks receiving state aid. These should be checked by the () Fimbag.” In fact, however, FIMBAG has relied on the National Bank's reports in its control of the requirements. This is probably the reason why staff costs have increased by 60 percent – total costs: € 730 000 – why salary payments were increased by 80 percent – costs: € 316 000. Not to be forgotten is also the red and black board, which has at least approved a salary increase of 42 percent – costs: € 318 000. So that means about €1.4 million for a non-control. Ladies and gentlemen! These are just a few examples of how to deal with the money of the Austrians – with the money that the Austrians have worked hard, and with the money, the You're taking people out of your pocket every day in this country. They decide on load packages, say yes and Amen to the ESM and the Fiscal Pact. You say yes to an ever higher government debt, you say yes to new taxes and you say yes to higher taxes. Mrs. Federal Minister! When do you take your courage together and think about a real tax reform? When do you say yes to a simple tax system? When do you say yes to fair taxes? And it's easy to ask: When do you say yes to Austria?
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6124	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. [[14:04:20]] We shall come to the vote. We first come to the vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution (Doc. Lower taxes instead of giving money to banks! I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – The application does not find a majority, is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Haider, colleagues, concerning the request from the Federal Government to bring an action before the ECJ for infringement of the ECB. If you're for that, I'll ask for a sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. [[14:05:19]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6185	We shall now proceed to a brief debate. It concerns the request made by Mr Pendl and Mr Amon, the Committee of Inquiry to clarify allegations of corruption for reporting a period of up to 16 years. In October of this year. After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, no speaker is allowed to speak for more than 5 minutes, first speaker for reasons of 10 minutes. Opinions from members of the Federal Government and from state secretaries should not last more than 10 minutes. First of all, the signatory to the debate, Mr Ing. Hofer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6219	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression, and many of you will probably share this impression that the image of politics has suffered in recent years, months, but very, very much. If you're on the move in the context of the citizens' contacts, you'll notice that the mood turns into anger – anger at politics as a whole, anger at the federal government, disappointment. There's no day when there's no revelation. It was only two days ago that the former Board of Management of BEGAS paid €10 million in black money to its accounts, €10 million in black money! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Which party?]] Two foundations in Liechtenstein have been created by the Social Democratic Simandl in order to be able to make profits there, ladies and gentlemen! Or if you think it's not that long ago, as mayor, you've faked postcards to make voices for your own parties! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know, but I kind of have the impression that there haven't been this variety of scandals a few years ago. Of course, there were the scandals around the AKH, around Noricum, “Consum”, residential construction East, BAWAG, Bank Burgenland. Also the current president of the SPÖ-pensionists, Blecha, was not entirely free of scandals and is now again in politics. That's all there is, but in this density, as we experience it today, it's a completely new dimension. It is also new how politics is wrapped up in these scandals, how close the close relationship is, how much there is in corruption and, above all, greed. The greed is the big problem, we have to fight it today. Ladies and gentlemen! “Gifty is horny” is not the saying that we should bow down to. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We need to make sure that people go into politics, which does not have this greed that is really still ready to go into politics to move something, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Against this background, ladies and gentlemen, it must also be said that this Committee of Inquiry has done a good job, namely to clarify many things that are moving us today. But there are many points that need to be clarified. That is why I do not understand how you are going today and can simply turn this investigation committee off! I must tell you that this turning off of the Committee of Inquiry is also a weakening of Parliament, and a measure that will, in particular, damage both these parties, but not just these two parties, but ultimately the policy and Parliament as a whole. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Petzner.]] Do not forget that we parliamentarians are not there to support the government bank, but also to strengthen Parliament's back. You can still remember that this has not been so long since the government demanded that Parliament be reduced to 165 Members. I now have the impression that this is not coming, but many, including representatives of government parties, were annoyed that this measure should simply be implemented without talking to those responsible in Parliament. This committee of inquiry is now to be strangled, and this is a measure which does not at all benefit from democratic hygiene, ladies and gentlemen. This committee must continue to work! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] There is still much to do, ladies and gentlemen: Think of the Telekom affair, manipulation of stock exchange courses, millions of payments without consideration of politicians, lobbyists and consultants! I somehow have the impression that it has become fashionable for politicians today to take on a job as an advisor after being a member of the government. I can well remember that we in Parliament have already talked about how to deal with competition clauses in the future, the SPÖ will be interested because more and more workers are being put under pressure because they have to sign competition clauses. What about the Federal Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who immediately begins to work as a minister or minister after her job? I am in favour of ensuring that there are just as cool-off phases and competition clauses here, so that a politician can not start working as an adviser just a few months after a member of the government. We should be just as active here, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the Telekom and the U Committee are concerned, I have the impression that when it comes to Mr Schlaf, it is always a matter of turning a committee off. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] This is not the first time. As soon as the name "sleep" appears, the Committee needs to be turned off. Then everything has already been discussed: The Committee damages the reputation of politics, it is a tribunal, we no longer want to do so. These are always the same arguments, ladies and gentlemen, whenever the name comes up sleep. What else to explain? BUWOG scandal. A name: Karl-Heinz Grasser, who was in conversation as the successor of Wolfgang Schüssel, who eventually did good business and good cash on the back of the people living in these apartments. Digital control function: There is a person involved who played a particular role in this Republic, namely the former Minister for the Interior of Strasser. A particularly ugly character, a particularly evil companion, who – I remember well – has always looked at the fact that his people have received the posts from the police. There was no matter if perhaps another, a family father, or a mother of children, needed a service post near the residence. No, it had to be a partygoer, a good "black" that Mr. Strasser then used there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's how this evil fellow ticks, this one, I say again, my own character. I very much hope that this gentleman will be sentenced to as high a penalty as possible. Next construction site: Relaxation of gambling monopoly. Here's another name: Karl-Heinz Grasser, who has really directed his life through the introduction to politics, who has no financial worries and lives in great prosperity. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – That was your Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen! You wanted him, your Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser. You can have it, I'll give it to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schönegger points towards FPÖ.]] Citizenship awards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits.]] - I'll watch you, Ossi. Watch out, too, gal! – I can well remember how a few days ago a businessman called me and said: You, I have an advisor, who was once for the ÖVP State Secretary. He said he can organize me a Russian who can invest in the company with me. Of course, he wants citizenship. But Mr ÖVP's Secretary of State does. – That is how it ends in the Republic of Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also in favour of ensuring greater transparency. Let us make a list of those who are new citizens in Austria. Let's write down the name in which community the person lives and under what title this person has received the new citizenship – whether this is a sportsman, an entrepreneur or someone who has lived in Austria for many years. Let us do this transparently, ladies and gentlemen. Now we're coming to the ad show. - Ossi, that's it. – I have talked to many basic ÖVP officials in the last few days in the election campaign in Burgenland. They are really stingy on Mr Spindelegger and on the leadership basis of the ÖVP. In fact, they say: I don't understand. That's what Mr Faymann says: I want to get to the committee. And the Lord Pendl and the rulers of the ÖVP say: No, we don't. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Freedom for Faymann!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The ÖVP thus strengthens the SPÖ's back. They don't understand! If the SPÖ says: If Mr Faymann comes to committee, then there are new elections, then the basic ÖVP officials say: We are then making these new elections, then we are going in new elections against this background if Mr Faymann, Mr Pendl, Mr Klubobmann Cap, and so on, if Mr Faymann wants to make a statement in committee! So I don't understand, I don't understand. Or maybe there's more to hide, and that's why you don't want to continue this investigation committee: Telekom, sleep and so on. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is ungustifying if Mr Bundeskanzler says he'd come to committee and the SPÖ says she'll let the coalition burst when he's invited. It would therefore be really important to keep this committee working. Because there are, I say it again, new scandals every day: BEGAS scandal and others. Mr Berlakovich says that his homepage is a “controllable information channel”. That's why this homepage costs a few million euros. Also I have a homepage that has cost 1,500 €. There are, of course, more important politicians than me. [[Abg. May. Worm: Grasser!]] There a homepage may cost 30 000 € or 100 000 €. But millions for a homepage? It's very expensive! Or the ads for the “farmer’s newspaper. ” This is what Mr Berlakovich in the committee says, he does not know who the responsible person is at the “farmer’s newspaper”. He himself, with his party, is in the impression! So that's incredible what's happening here! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] I believe that the ÖVP is ready to carry this investigation committee together with the SPÖ so that nothing more will happen in these next days. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] Ladies and gentlemen! My last sentence: When you turn away, you hurt yourself most; for one won't choose the voters: the coverts, the captors and those who lie to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6395	The maximum speaking time of 5 minutes applies to all other speakers. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6419	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[All Members of the Greens rise from their seats. Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek holds a poster entitled “Josef Cap, SPÖ. A voice for cover-up and for reconnaissance. Tell him your opinion! josef.cap@spoe.at Other Green MEPs hold similar posters, with names and e-mail addresses of other SPÖ and ÖVP MPs, among other things the Abg. Amon.]] Let me make a point at the beginning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] – I am glad, Mr Hofer, that we agree on one point: It is probably the most successful research committee in history. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] I would at least like to see what has been said on this subject by the Greens and all the political groups to the former President of the Court of Auditors Franz Fierce, who speaks of a huge success. [[The speaker keeps a book up to date]] You have all been talking about how we decided on legal measures that were the result of this committee of inquiry before the summer. For a long time in advance, this House has taken into account the issues that the Committee of Inquiry has dealt with in practice. [[The Greens are taking their seats again.]] I believe that the international experts, representatives of all parties – you can read your own statements – have hit the nail on the head here. Ladies and gentlemen! I am a little surprised at the artificial excitement, for I remember that on the 19th of last month, namely, Mr Pendl, Mr Amon, Mr Rosary, Mr Pilz and Mr Petzner, we decided on a joint request, where, as a time perspective, the 16th. Have decided on October and also on an associated load list – unanimously. [[Calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Dictat!]] All week – gentlemen, listen carefully! – we could see the media who won’t come this week. I will tell you on Friday this week that all those who have been loaded this week were also in the Committee of Inquiry. Therefore, I do not think it appropriate to be artificially excited about a very serious issue for party policy reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to express my respect for the non-lightly leadership to Mr Rosenkranz – I say so very consciously. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: It's all right!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say one thing: We have two excellent top judges in Austria as a procedural lawyer, and it is not appropriate to start with a dispute, where all professionals will probably leave you alone. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This has not deserved the lawyers who have done excellent work, and not at all, ladies and gentlemen, it has deserved to be treated in this way in a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I am now saying – and I am saying – that no defendant would be treated in this way at no Austrian court. This is an informational matter, and I believe that it is damaging to the dignity of the House and therefore also to the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry if we deal with people in this way. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Petzner and Mr Brosz]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We don't need that. Especially I understand if the emotions play a little bit with the thing there or there, but it all stops at one point. Mr Pilz! We don't need all of us to highly stylize parties into criminal organizations, so I keep myself clear. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, I am very clear, for one thing, ladies and gentlemen, I say clearly If I would formulate a fraction of what Mr Pilz has formulated, then the Republic, the rule of law and all fundamental rights have already been abolished – that would be replicated on it. [[Green call for tender]] And that's what we're going to expect: Stay calm!; I am guilty; as with Sicilian citizens, so it goes on, the game continues. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brosz and Mr Mag. Korun]] - Go, let's leave the church in the village! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This approach, ladies and gentlemen, is not for Parliament, nor for Austrian parliamentarianism; it is perhaps something for the Tschun stage, but not for the High House, I say it in all its clarity. [[Call to the Greens: Such a fool!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has always been a problem, and all professionals know it: When a parliamentary investigation committee is set up parallel to investigations by the Austrian judicial authorities, there are automatically links where you can always get into the situation that an accused person - and, please, according to the criminal procedure order - can turn away if he is burdened himself. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] At least we must respect what has been our rule of law in Austria for decades; therefore, I believe, it must be treated equally. Finally, I say: a successful committee of inquiry – he might have earned a little bit of a different end.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6613	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6636	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the order of speech that the Rules of Procedure give us, no one – how should I say? – in the sense of speech and counter-voice all too great, because I would have liked to address the arguments of the opposition, but the first speaker has actually brought hardly any arguments to which one could have addressed, and the other spokespersons of the opposition unfortunately come only after me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] [[Green call for tender]] So I have to try to predict the arguments ahead and go a little bit on them. But I am very grateful to the Greens that they have a few Taferls again today – perhaps you can show them to us again – because that makes it clear what the Greens are talking about. [[Members of the Greens keep the panels already shown up.]] The Greens are about a show element, it's about making some cheap points for the Greens – that's what the Greens are talking about. So was her conduct in committee, and that is unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I can only join my colleague Pendl: It is simply unacceptable that in the Committee individual parties are compared to mafios organisations in southern Italy, Dr. Pilz! That is unacceptable, to reject, this comparison is unheard of! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand that opposition lamento. Now we have been constantly talking about the abrupt end of the committee for four weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] For four weeks the Committee has been turned off abruptly, and for four weeks this has made us aware of the opposition, and I can already remind you that the real problem has appeared at the end of August when the President has not approved a four-party request for the vote. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] If it had not done so, the Committee would have taken a better end than it must now, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call: Such a nonsense.]] In this context, I would like to expressly appreciate the presidency of Dr. Rosenkranz. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] It was really first-class what you did in these committee meetings as chairman. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Stefan.]] I would like to congratulate you on this and thank you very much because this form of presiding over the quality of the committee of inquiry has really done well. – Thank you, Dr. Rosary! – Yes, I find that unfair, Mrs Glawischnig, because as long as the investigation committee meets, Dr. Pilz appears more in the media than you do; this too is unfair. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Once again, this is really typical! Nine months it has led the Committee excellently!]] That's gonna change again now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I really think the Lamento of the opposition parties is inappropriate, because there was not too long ago, almost three weeks ago, a joint request – Mr Pendl has referred to it – where it is not in vain that it is a request by Members Pendl, Amon, Rosary, Pilz and Petzner. These are Members who are known, ladies and gentlemen, who do not, at least not all, belong to the government parties, but, as far as I can see, are the Members of all the political groups here in the House. And in this proposal it says: "It is expected that the reporting committee will have a period of 16 months for its reporting. of October ( ).’ [[Abg. Petzner: View!]] ‘A meeting of the Rules of Procedure on the decision-making of the report for the calendar week 42 is therefore envisaged.’ [[call to the FPÖ.]] That is exactly what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen, but as opposition parties you have already said in recent days that you do not want to comply with this joint request. [[Intervoke by Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Deimek and Bucher]] This is disappointing, because this gives the public the impression that only the government parties believe that we are now, 16th. October, end the Committee and end with 17. I would like to return a report to the House on October. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: I do! That's right!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] It is true that all five political groups have agreed exactly on this and no other timetable.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6803	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6825	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by thanking you for the flowers for the presidency. I regard this as an election recommendation from SPÖ and ÖVP for the municipal council election in Krems on Sunday, where I run as a person. I would like to thank you for this recommendation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you are so inclined by SPÖ and ÖVP to appreciate my presidency, I tell you: I am willing to hold this presidency for even longer than until the 16th century. October. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the Greens and of the European Parliament, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social ……]] I am not tired of this. I am very happy that you can continue to experience this if you like it so well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Because what happened in November 2011? . We unanimously adopted a decision in Parliament that certain things in this Republic should be clarified – a truly large project with very many research objects, a long committee and also very successful and very small until summer. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Until summer, then not anymore!]] We have spent the program from the “smallest” information person in a hierarchy chain to the big fish, and these four themes – Telekom, BUWOG, Blue Light Radio/TETRON and Gambling – have been perfectly clarified until summer. After the summer break – I admit – there was a bad start, with debates on the Rules of Procedure and similar things; this does not make a good picture in the public. But now the Werk Examining Committee has come back slowly like a car, we are approaching the permitted maximum professional speed. And what does the government do? – It jumps on the brake; an emergency brake with horrified eyes. I don't know on which wall the government parties would have taken off here, that they're pulling this emergency brake. And I am now bringing you a thoughtful experiment, ladies and gentlemen, which will now vote in particular: They have unanimously asked for one thing: the information of the Telekom East business. I can tell you that there are not all the files in the house in this respect, and you have granted us, the opposition parties, an information person. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly! How's it going?]] In recent times, we have made use of our experience with those who are also accused in criminal proceedings, namely that they have the fundamental right to withdraw from the statement. This right also does not want anyone to dispute, and it must be interpreted generously in the interests of personal protection. Only: If you then invite a person like Mr Entrepreneur to get information on the last day when you see eyes as the only person to be seen – I assume that he will come, of course. He will fulfill his Austrian citizenship, certainly, as in the Banking Committee – there he was, was he? – and he will probably dismiss his statement there, as he is accused. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] Consider this, ladies and gentlemen, who have unanimously given the task of clarifying all of this. And this is not about €500 000 or € 10,000 as a print cost contribution for any party newspaper. This is about at least € 1 billion, where you don't know how this money could be lurked at all, who must have played there and which political leaders were behind it. Then: We already know names like Taus, Cordt and Elsner, who are all inside, about other things. We would have liked to clarify this with us in the context of political information and processing – not criminal processing. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as this request is concerned, we will most likely be standing before you in this report, which is sent to Parliament, on this point 1.d as a committee. How do you now view your change of mind: from the unanimous decision you have made – and now it is a majority that we are no longer interested in?- Oh, my God! What happened in the meantime? Is it too close for SPÖ and ÖVP? Is it possible to see the unpleasant issues now? Don't you want to hear that again? For excuses, here is only criminalized: Please, these surveys are already part of criminal proceedings, which is criminalised. - No, no, it's about political responsibilities. To this five-party agreement I tell you one thing: The opposition is prior to the election, a few days of investigation committee or none at all. And I am glad that we have been subject to what the government parties put on the table during the last plenary session, that we must do so, for otherwise we would never have heard what instructions have been made in the citizenship matters of ÖVP ministers to carry out citizenship. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] We have also experienced a Minister for the Environment, Food and Agriculture, who has said the following: I don't know what's going on in my department. – But don’t worry, this will still concern us in plenary! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] One thing is true, Mr Pendl: This investigation committee has earned a different end, but not what you are writing.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6915	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e6936	Ladies and gentlemen! For almost a year now, the Committee of Inquiry has shown what a Parliament can do; and today, two government parties show us what a Parliament can do – and that is the big difference. I do not know whether the SPÖ and ÖVP Members are aware of how much confidence in policy, how much confidence in this Parliament, how much confidence in our joint work has produced this control and information work. And I do not know whether the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues are aware of how much of this confidence they have destroyed again in a few days. I am only one important thing: that people know and understand it in such a way that not the Parliament and not the Investigation Committee deserve mistrust, but the two parties who misuse their power and power in this House to prevent Parliament from working on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Pendl! Mr Amon! You didn't answer a single question: Why Bring Are you submitting a deadline request today? We all knew: Next week, you'll be turned off anyway, you'll sit down. We decided on Wednesday as a negotiating and questioning day in the Committee of Inquiry, and you refuse to invite even a single person. Mr Pendl! Mr Amon! What are you going to do next Wednesday in the Investigation Committee? What are you gonna do? Do you want to ask yourself? And if so: If Pendl asks Pendl, is Pendl under a duty of truth? [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You make the investigation committee a Farce, and you take on a strange political responsibility. We know: It was not just red and black affairs that we treated and still wanted to treat; it was especially affairs from the black and blue-orange reign. Do you explain to me from the SPÖ why the SPÖ is doing everything to take on a large part of the responsibility for the non-treatment of affairs for the other parties? Is Werner Faymann really worth it? Is Josef Ostermayer really worth it? Are the few ads in “ÖsterREICH” and “Kronen Zeitung” really worth turning off the investigation committee and giving two heavily charged parties – FPÖ and BZÖ – the chance to present themselves as clean parties? Is that really worth it? [[Intervocations at FPÖ and BZÖ as well as the Abg. Steibl.]] Is it really worth giving them the chance to pretend, as if not all, almost all of us questioning and clarifying their affairs – from Grasser to Meischberger and Scheuch and Haider – to come from the liberal and out of the orange realm? [[call to the FPÖ.]] I slowly wonder what SPÖ and ÖVP are doing. Of course, they have the right to politically raise their own grave. [[New call to the FPÖ.]] Of course, they have the right to take a major coalition by the hand and say: From now on, we are standing back where we used to be, on the side of the cover-up and the disability of Parliament. But why do they do that? There was no real political reason for this. I'm just telling you one thing: You can turn off an investigation committee from SPÖ and ÖVP; no one can prevent any of you from informing the corruption monkeys. They'll be cleared up. I renew my invitation to FPÖ and BZÖ to hold a special meeting on each of the four issues that have been prevented and not clarified and to demand responsibility. Let us look at the two-thirds together and fight for the re-establishment of this committee of inquiry! We need parliamentary information, we need parliamentary control, and one of the most successful committees in this House must not remain an argument for government parties to turn off parliamentary intelligence. In conclusion: Perhaps there are some in SPÖ and ÖVP – for example, Mr Jarolim, who, as long as he was allowed to be a leader in the political groups, also participated in the Enlightenment in this committee – who know that this is not going on and that this blockage and walls have no future at all. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Perhaps you will know, and perhaps you will consider once again whether you will not give a committee of inquiry and parliamentary inquiry a second chance. At least I'll see you again: We will clarify these affairs! We will not draw you to account, but the voters! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7054	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7076	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I also see today's proposal for a deadline in some way as a confirmation of the opposition we have experienced just a few days ago, and I would also like to extend this to the critics of this compromise, which we made at the time. This deadline request was already planned, and the opposition succeeded in allowing at least a few further investigation days in the Committee of Inquiry to continue the investigation of corruption through a compromise we have received. If there had been no such compromise on the part of the opposition parties, then we would not have been able to investigate the advertising affairs, then we would not have been able to find out either, by questioning Mr Berlakovich, that there was a whole, far-off system of illegal party financing from Berlakovich via the ÖVP Farmers' Federation towards the Austrian People's Party, and then we could not have clarified the advertising activities of then Minister of Transport Faymann and his chief of the cabinet, who used funds from close-to-state businesses of hundreds of thousands of euros to make their own party propaganda in various boulevard media. [[Abg. Heinzl: This is a lie!]] And if there were no such compromise, we would not have been able to prove, in the context of the citizenship investigations, that there are own companies in Austria that are operating an organised citizenship trade, where citizenship is sold by €250 000 and more. – All of this would not have been clarified, there would have been no such compromise. And that shows your deadline application today! I can also say to you that this clarification cannot be stopped with this deadline request. The investigation work, the investigation of corruption will continue. While they can turn away from the Committee, they cannot turn away the information, because there are other ways of continuing the investigation of corruption, at other levels, such as in the context of parliamentary questions, meetings, as well as of facts such as the BZÖ, for example, has today brought against Mr Berlakovich in connection with the award of ministerial funds, where there is in concrete terms the suspicion of infidelity and illegal party funding. We will continue! The one-year activity of this Committee of Inquiry has brought so much knowledge, so many insights that the Austrians can be sure – and I believe that they can speak here for all the opposition parties – that we will continue to work to combat corruption in this country and to be held accountable to those responsible for corruption, so that this country will become a bit cleaner and better, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In that respect, I do not, of course, see this request for a deadline with enthusiasm at all, but with some serenity, because this request for a deadline is in the face of the Committee's almost one year's extremely successful work. A committee of inquiry has never been so comprehensive in this country, and he has never had so many concrete results, ladies and gentlemen. There are also all the experts and commentators agree. Why it is being turned off right now should have the reason for SPÖ and ÖVP to start a so-called “Martin Schlaff-Zeugenschutzprogramm” once again, because every method is designed to prevent Mr. Schlaef from having to say before the committee of inquiry. He's now for the 11th. October, for the last committee day, but I fear that already today a whole swarm of flu viruses is approaching Mr. Schlaf, but we will see if he is on 11 October. October appears or not. But you can protect Mr Sleep as much as you want, we will also continue to examine the painterries of Mr Sleepf and the Telekom East shops, in other places. And we're not going to let go of the advertisement affair and take the Federal Chancellor to responsibility. And we will not let go of citizenship in the causa either. These are the still open subjects of investigation. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Yes, this request for a deadline must be condemned! However, he cannot prevent the investigation of corruption. To this end, I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP: Don't look too early!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7124	Nobody's reported word anymore. The debate is closed. [[14:45:50]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Pendl and Mr Amon, the committee of inquiry to clarify corruption accusations for reporting a period of time up to 16. ==References== The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This requirement is in accordance with business rules. That's why we're doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am asking those Members who are in favour of the deadline request to put “Yes” votes against “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the writer, Mrs Binder-Maier, to begin the call for name; she is replaced by Mrs Anna Franz.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7199	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the votes, under the supervision of the experts. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7237	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 157; of which 'Yes' votes 95, 'No' votes 62. The deadline application is therefore accepted. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Joseph, Bartenstein, Bayr, Becher, Binder-Maier, Buchmayr; Cap, Cortolezis scraper, Csörgits; Donabauer Karl, perforation; Incubators, eaters; Fazekas, Franz, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glaser, Grillitsch; Haberzettl, Hakel Elisabeth, Hakl Karin, Hammer, Haubner Peter, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höfinger, Hellererer, Hornek, Huainigg; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kaipel, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Slickovits, Königsberger-Ludwig, Head, Kößl, Krainer, Herbs, Crist, Kuntzl; Lapp, Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger Angela; Marek, Mayer Elmar, Mayer Peter, Muchich, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Pendl, Plessl, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler Johann, Riepl, Rudas; Sacher, Schickhofer, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger Bernd, Schultes, Silhavy, Singer, Spindelberger, Stauber Peter, Steibl Ridi Maria, Steßl-Mühlbacher, Stummvoll; Tamandl; Wenninger, Windish, Wittmann Peter, Worm; Members voted with ‘No’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz Dieter, Brunner Christiane, Bucher Josef; Deimek, Dolinschek, Doppler; Gartelgruber, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grauburd, Graf, Grünewald; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hagen, Haider, Haubner Ursula, Herbert Werner, Höbart Christian, Hofer, Huber Gerhard, Hübner Johannes; Jannach, jury; Karlsböck, Kaufmann-Bruckberger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun, Kunasek; Laust, Linder, List; Mayerhofer, Mühlberghuber; Petzner, fungus, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; Riemer, Roskranz, Rossmann; Treasure, Scheibner, Gift, Spadiut, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strutz; themesl; Inland waterways; Venier, Vilimsky, Vock; Walser, Westenthaler, Windbüchler-Sushill, Windholz, Winter; Singer, Zinggl. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7416	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 2080/A(E) to 2089/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 12721/J to 12746/J were also raised. Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-05-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00171_d7e7440	I also announce that, in connection with the Self-employed Application 2082/A, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, the conduct review must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 16 May. October, 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
