ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3082	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to take your seats and open the meeting. Deputies Hornek and Steindl are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3110	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is the Federal Minister for the Interior. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. [[09:06:33]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3146	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3253	I announce that the session will be broadcast live in full length to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3272	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the Government paper on the Federal Finance Act 2013 – BFG 2013 and Appendices, 1910 of the Supplements, at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3296	The debate on points 2 and 3, 5 to 7, 8 to 13, 15 and 16, 18 to 20, 21 to 25 and 29 to 32 of the agenda is planned. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Application for period-limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3317	Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform the House that Mr Pilz has requested the deadline set by the Committee on Inquiry to clarify corruption claims for reporting to 4. ==References====External links== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 42 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a brief debate be held on this request. This brief debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m., and the vote on this request will take place after the corresponding debate. Mrs. Klub's chairman, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3353	Madam President. High house! On behalf of the Green Group, I would like to make the most serious protest against ignoring a unanimous decision in the committee of inquiry on corruption. At the request of Mr Pendl and Mr Amon, we have taken a unanimous decision in the corruption investigation committee, which states that a meeting of the Rules of Procedure will be convened in the calendar week 42 to discuss a written report. We now have almost twelve months of work in the investigative committee behind us, 330 meetings, 132 information staff, 1.6 million pages of files – and there is no single line of written report from the government groups. I believe that this is not only a refusal to work but also the ignoring of democratic rules, namely unanimous decisions here in this House. And I ask you to justify how you can simply ignore unanimous decisions. By the way, you will not only cut the parliamentary control rights of the entire House, but also the opposition in particular, because you will allow us to write a different minority report on all these incidents. And I really regret that you have not found it worth the effort to present a single line, a single paragraph or a single page of written report to all of these incidents, against your own decisions. [[Abg. Amon: no proposal made!]] I would like this to be discussed in detail in the President-in-Office, and I would like you, Madam President, to have the consequences of ignoring unanimous decisions or to have a very serious and detailed discussion in the President-in-Office of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3393	Mrs. Club Chairman, I can assure you. We have always carried out detailed debates, especially on such issues, in which the President-in-Office is responsible, and this should remain the case. For business treatment: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3421	This was now an objection to the Rules of Procedure concerning the lack of a report from the Committee of Inquiry. I am a little surprised that the Greens are now absolutely demanding this from the government. It is true that there has been a unanimous decision that such a thing will be envisaged. However, the Green Group has not had a single attempt to have a round-the-clock meeting convened. It would probably not be bad for the Green Group – if it already valued a minority report – to submit, perhaps “their minority report” – under quotation marks – as a basis for discussion. But not to do anything and then to push all the others to the Black Peter – maybe have [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] You don't have the right grip on my colleague Pilz anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3465	I see there is no further word for business treatment. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3488	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 126 minutes, FPÖ 113, Green 99 and BZÖ 95 minutes. I also propose that according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of each Member of the European Parliament is limited to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:13:01]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2013, together with investments
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3532	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Before I give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance to give the statement, I very much welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[I should like to congratulate SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e3565	Stable finances through reforms, growth through offensive measures – I am pleased to be able to present the 2013 budget to you today. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government! High house! Dear spectators on the ranks and in front of the screens at home! Dear taxpayers! Crisis management has been accompanying financial and economic policy for four years now. All finance ministers in Europe are still required to cope with the global crisis. Austria has come through the crisis better than most of its neighbours. We have found the better answers and are well positioned and stable in international comparison. In Austria we have not lost jobs, quite the contrary: At present, as many people are employed as never before, and at 4.4 percent we have the least unemployed throughout Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: So many unemployed!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria is also one of the best among the number of young people in employment. The fact that Austria is so good in the European comparison of youth employment lies, among other things, in our dual system of vocational training between entrepreneurs and young people, between school and practice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, this dual system, this model must be protected and developed in Austria and it should be introduced in the rest of Europe. Never had so many people work in the Second Republic as they do today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Since the height of the crisis three years ago, 160 000 jobs have been created in Austria, while there are fewer jobs in the EU than before the crisis. At the same time, we were able to obtain the purchasing power of the people. The level of income before the crisis could already be achieved again in the first half of 2011. Other countries, including rich countries such as Luxembourg or the Netherlands, are still not ready. Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular have proved particularly stable. The tourism figures are encouraging, and the export industry has quickly regained the level before the crisis. – A warm thanks to all entrepreneurs, together with their dedicated employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian economy developed relatively well in a world-wide very unfavorable environment. In the first quarter of 2012, real GDP increased by 0.5 percent compared with the previous quarter. In the second quarter of 2012, however, the economy grew low due to a lack of foreign trade impulse. And for 2013 we expect a slight upturn in Austria with a growth of one percent. This is above the average of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, for the Eurozone, the International Monetary Fund has predicted a recession. Austria owes its strength to the enormous willingness of its employees, the innovative power of businesses, a functioning administration, a competitive tax model for companies and the reformability of our policies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bucher and Mr Mag. Widmann.]] We have introduced a debt brake at the federal level by law. With the countries and communities, we have adopted a Stability Pact, thus proving clearly the will to budgetary discipline. A bundle of measures has strengthened confidence in our financial and economic policies in such a way that we are currently paying as low interest rates as we have never before – a trust borne by wise location policy, consistent fiscal discipline and investment-stimulating tax policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This confidence in the Austrian economy secures our jobs for the people and creates prosperity. This confidence also creates those tax revenues that secure our prosperity, and it must be borne in mind in all measures that this confidence in the Austrian site is not weakened but further strengthened and strengthened. Active location policy includes planning and thus maintaining political continuity and maintaining social partnership peace. This budget is based on these principles. High house! Austria is one of the top quartets in the EU, which is economically balanced. Domestic consumption and export management, production and service, trade and industry, tourism and commerce, large and small make up the balanced mix of our economic power. Only four countries in the EU have a macroeconomic balance as we have it. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who?]] We are most closely connected with our European partners, because around 70 percent of all exports go to the EU and over 50 percent to the eurozone. If one of these countries suffered an economic downturn, this would inevitably also hit Austria and endanger our prosperity. To help our European partners is therefore not only a command of mutual solidarity, but also a command of economic reason. Austria's economy and jobs depend on a stable economic environment of its important trading partners. We therefore participate in crisis management and crisis prevention. I recognize this European solidarity because it is in our very best interest in safeguarding jobs and prosperity. Monetary policy is governed by the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism helps to stabilise debt countries in difficulty. This duality manages Europe's banking and debt crisis, but under very strict conditions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Just not with the banks!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] But: The countries affected must be able to get back on their feet. Weighing in security and hoping and trusting that the other states will help, I cannot accept! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It's not solidarian! The countries are therefore urgently obliged to carry out their homework and to implement reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Assigned: The aid measures are associated with high effort and financial use. Yeah, that's painful, but the measures are right. We will stick to this course and shape a stable economic and monetary union. Europe will thereby be strengthened and its position will be stable in international competition. Europe is a peace project and is awarded the Nobel Prize. Europe is also a prosperity project. Prosperity in peace – to secure and expand this is our political task for people in a solidarity Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My path is stable finances through reforms. In the spring of this year we presented the largest reform package of the Second Republic, which is also the preliminary work and the basis for this budget. We have set a budget path that will lead to a zero deficit in 2016 and then only allow balanced households – including countries and municipalities. [[Abg. Kickl: Can you say that again? I didn't know you'd all step back!]] We have supported these key values with structural reforms accompanied by 98 legislative novels, with further progress being made in the reforms. We have consciously focused on the expenditure side and have addressed the major cost drivers: Early pensions, ÖBB, promotions, administration and health care. The Federal Government did not dispute: Despite savings, we want to stimulate investment, promote growth, create jobs, keep inflation low and maintain the purchasing power of people. We have managed to achieve socially balanced measures in the area of stabilisation. I am very proud of the fact that in Austria we share these reforms and do not, as in many other European countries, experience violent conflicts between demonstrators and police. A thank you in this context to all those who contributed to this reform package in spring. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Despite the necessary saving and reform course, we have always been aware of the social peace that makes this country so vital. The balance between reasonable saving, curly investing and social assistance, where necessary, was found. We must continue to manage to maintain the triangular link between budgetary discipline – in the form of sparingness – and courage for structural reforms, especially in the case of cost drivers, and offensive measures for the future in balance. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] That is why my foreign exchange is: stable finances through reforms, growth through offensive measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At ÖBB alone, we save €1.4 billion of grants to the company by 2016. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Is this what Mr. Stronach pays?]] We are in the process of building new structures to prevent double and triple funding in the future. The transparency database plays a crucial role in this. We have been able to finalise this future-oriented project this year, and I am looking forward to the first results we can evaluate in 2013. I am proud that the project has won the first prize as the most innovative eGovernment project in Germany at the 12th eGovernment competition. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The staff of the Ministry of Finance received this award in Berlin. In the pension area, our foreign exchange was to secure the system in a sustainable way so that people's well-deserved pension is safe in the future. It is necessary to keep older workers in employment longer. We must approach the actual age of entry gradually to the legal age of entry of 65 years. To this end, we have chosen a mix of measures to sum up to €7 billion savings by 2016. We eliminate structural incentives for early pensions by increasing the requirement of the corridor board from 37,5 to 40 years and increasing the level of protection from 57 to 60 years. The reform of the invalidity pension will be sent to Parliament this year. This will ensure that the pension system is safeguarded and accompanied by measures on the labour market for older workers. But not only those who are in front of the pension have contributed to their reform, but also those who already receive a pension will make a contribution: Pension adjustment for 2013 will be one percent below inflation. [[Abg. Kickl: Then why does it say “adjustment ”?]] Pension claims represent an essential part of the prosperity in Austria. I am glad that there was also a consensus here on a contribution to fiscal consolidation, which was carried out without protests and resistance. A thank you to our pensioners. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is a well-managed country with a high efficiency through continuous structural adjustments. For example, we have set the cross-sectoral standards in the IT sector by law. We are technology pioneers at eGovernment. Other examples of structural reforms in administration include the police reform, the new administrative jurisdiction, the new Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, the new central register of persons, the district court reform and the cross-sectoral merger of organisations. I would like to thank all the employees of the public service for their willingness to contribute to these reforms through a high degree of flexibility and professionalism. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Another big building block is the health reform. The core feature is not to raise costs more than the average economic growth of about 3.6 percent, with optimum security of supply for patients. The Federal Government, countries and health insurance institutions are required to ensure the optimal supply of the population through better cooperation in planning and joint target management, while at the same time using the finances more efficiently than before. The consolidation contribution of social security for the budget is € 144 million. The cost reduction in health in the countries will be in the billions. With regard to taxes, we have done a lot by closing tax gaps and introducing the solidar contribution for operators. At the beginning of my term of office, I set out, among other things, to conclude an agreement with Switzerland in order to tax Austrian assets. It's a pleasure to be able to tell you again today: The Agreement shall enter into force as planned. January 2013 in force and leads to more tax justice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr and Mrs Österreicher can rely on me as her Minister of Finance. I have concluded the agreement with Switzerland, it is now being implemented and brings additional tax revenue. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the same way, it is in the case of the financial transaction tax. There were great doubts when it was presented by Josef Pröll under the name “Tobin-Tax” as a necessary and factually justified objective and a concept developed by the Ministry of Finance was sent to the EU Commission in September 2009. [[Call BZÖ:I thought that was the Faymann!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Faymann suggested this!]] Doubts, criticism and suspicion were great. Now we are a significant step further. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Nice pass.]] Nine countries are needed for the so-called enhanced cooperation under the Lisbon Treaty, and we have now succeeded in winning 11 EU countries. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Who succeeded?]] I am particularly pleased about this because it shows how important this project is – for small countries such as Austria, but also for large countries such as Germany, France, Spain and Italy. Using the money from the Financial Transaction Tax to combat youth unemployment in Europe is a reasonable approach, for which we will fight in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] However, it is also clear that our contribution from the Financial Transaction Tax must be included in our net contribution to Brussels. With the reform package in this spring, we have already done a lot for general government finances: We have not only restored finance on the side of the federal government, but we have also agreed to a debt brake in general, i.e. with countries and communities. As of 2016, there will be a balanced budget. Not least, European standards have supported this. The Fiscal Pact, the European debt brake, the reporting obligations to the Commission, the obligation to reduce excessive deficits, and the European consensus to consolidate the budgets have also succeeded in joint action in Austria. Solid public finances require successful cooperation between the federal, state and local authorities. The Austrian Stability Pact 2012 underlines with the establishment of the overall consolidation path of this good partnership between all local authorities. At the same time, the new EU rules on improved budgetary discipline are being implemented for all levels of government. In the 2013 budget, more funds are available for the financial compensation of around €1.5 billion than in the previous year. These are intended to provide sufficient funding for the disaster fund, as well as various transfers to countries and communities, such as targeted grants for hospital financing or for state teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second priority next to the reform path in this budget is growth through offensive measures. The offensive measures in the form of investment in education, universities, research and development, infrastructure and thermal rehabilitation are driving forces for growth and employment. The political priorities of the Federal Government are reflected in the 2013 budget: The university billions will provide additional resources to universities for the upcoming service agreement for the period 2013 to 2015, e.g. through the new university space structure funds. Under this title, universities receive €150 million each year, which are awarded in a performance-oriented way. The offensive means will also enable the further expansion of the high-school sector by promoting additional places of study at vocational colleges by the federal government. The Commission has already decided on this subject. Offensives of €80 million per year for the applied research area will continue. For research funding, €100 million of offensive funds will be available in 2013. In 2013 the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture has around € 186 million more budget resources available than this year. There are therefore also significant resources available for the comprehensive conversion of primary schools into new secondary schools. Another focus is the expansion of afternoon care, for which €80 million are budgeted for 2013. Financially significant for the classroom is the continuation of the reduction in the maximum number of school students to the indicative value of 25 pupils. The promotion of thermal rehabilitation with €100 million will continue in 2013. With this funding, we mobilise an investment volume of €800 million across Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to support economic dynamics, €30 million will be made available for the federal founding offensive in the budget year. This includes the establishment of a Business Angel Fund, which provides risk capital in cooperation with private investors, dynamic, growth-oriented business founders. In addition, €15 million is provided for by the State Youth Entrepreneurship Fund. The municipalities receive a further €15 million from the Federal budget in addition to the extension of the childcare offer, especially for under-three year olds. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The high social standard also remains: Family policy benefits are expressly excluded from the latest stabilisation package. The care area has been re-regulated. The competence of the countries has been transferred to the federal government in respect of the cash benefits. A care fund has been set up to ensure that care is financed. This is spent in 2013 at €200 million. Active labour market policy is one of the key measures to reduce unemployment and create new jobs so that people get jobs and no longer have to stay in unemployment. In 2013, around €2 billion is used for active and active labour market promotion. Labour funds rise by €214.5 million to $6.4 billion. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The Federal contribution to pension insurance remains at the level of the previous year in 2013. The 2013 budget will continue the successful path: We reduce deficits, reduce debt and continue to step by step to implement the necessary reforms. That's how we make Austria future fit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, the key values in numbers. The 2013 budget provides expenditure of around €75 billion and revenue of around €68.7 billion. The net financing requirement is therefore around €6.3 billion and is therefore significantly lower than in 2012. In line with our European commitments, we reduce the Maastricht deficit to 2.3 percent of gross domestic product, 1.9 percent of which is due to federal government and social security, 0.4 percent to countries and communities. We thus achieve the goal of setting the 3 percent deficit mark in 2013. This is a convincing deficit reduction that we are doing here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It looks even better in terms of economic adjustment, i.e. the structural deficit. There in 2013 we reach a value of 1.2 percent of the gross domestic product minus, namely deficit. The structural deficit, i.e. adjusted for economic and one-off effects, provides information on the stability of our finances. We will therefore continue the path towards a structurally balanced budget. The general government debt ratio is still rising in 2013 and will be around 75.4 percent of the gross domestic product. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Record!]] In the following years, not only will the deficit reduction continue, but the debt ratio will again decrease from 2014. The medium-term objective of a balanced general budget in 2060 is thus further secured. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This will keep us in line with our budget path and will continue to position Austria as a country with budgetary sustainability. We have our finances under control. They're stable, and the financial markets know that. Our low interest rate level speaks a clear language. The investors trust Austria, and that's a good thing! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Only in September Moody’s awarded us the best score Triple A. We owe this to our stability-oriented budget policy. The Republic of Austria has never been able to absorb such cheap money in the long term. With an average maturity of 15 years, the average interest rate on government bonds in the first three quarters was 2.46 percent this year. Since the beginning of 2012, the Republic has experienced negative interest rates in the area of short-term financing up to financing for two years for the first time. This means that investors pay us money to invest their money with us in order to be able to deposit it with us. The security of the Republic and its finances is thus worth living money. [[Abg. Kickl: Super! Why do the others pay?]] This also affects our 2013 budget. The interest payments fell significantly from just under 8 billion in 2012 to around 6.5 billion euros in comparison with the federal estimate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to ensure security and stability, it was necessary to support the financial sector with state resources. At the same time, we are demanding more taxes from the banks. The Republic as new co-owners will play its role actively and responsibly in the sense of Austrian taxpayers. We have done what is necessary, because banks are essential to the functioning of an economy, but the banks themselves must also make a contribution to it. My aim was and is therefore to ensure the indispensable banking services, especially in the interests of savers, account owners, businesses, house builders, pensioners and pensioners. A stable and healthy financial and capital market is an essential prerequisite for the positive development of the economy and general prosperity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! All the political groups in this House decided on the new budgetary law years ago, thus sending a strong signal to modernise our budget management. I can tell you that there is a huge international interest in our new budget management and that the federal government has established itself here as the best practice example. I would like to thank the staff in the financial sector and in the other departments. The development of the reform was an impressive achievement, and the professional implementation shows what services our public service is capable of. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The first phase of budgetary reform has already been a great success. Multi-annual reserves in billions prevent the legendary “December fever” at the end of a financial year, and binding limits on resources and staff also provide the necessary budgetary discipline in the departments. This also strengthens the confidence of the financial markets in the sustainability of Austrian budget policy. Well, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 budget implements the second stage of the budgetary reform, which ambitiously brings a clear, transparent budget structure with defined objectives. The transition from revenue and expenditure accounts to commercial accounting makes the budget modern, transparent and fit for the future. We will have an opening balance of the federal government per 1. Create January 2013. This will enable the population to see what the relationship of debt and assets in the federal government looks like. At the end of the year, we will therefore know how the federal assets have developed. The new orientation of effect is particularly important to me. It is presented for the first time what the individual departments and departments do for the money of taxpayers. The resorts must define objectives and specify and describe the way there. Control by the Federal Chancellery will ensure that the use of the funds also serves to achieve the objective. This gives the budget a completely new quality. There is no longer only information on the institution of how much money gets, but for the first time the budget also shows what results are to be achieved with these resources for the population. We are not merely orienting ourselves on the money, but on the benefit according to the targets set. Transparency ensures that each taxpayer and taxpayer knows how to use its ‘tax euro’ respectively. Therefore, since today, each person has received information on how his tax money is used with his wage tax notice/income tax notice. For the people in Austria have a right to know what happens to their tax money. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now to the Members of the Government Bank and their place of business responsibility. The budget serves to secure our country's future. The promotion of families is of particular importance here. Therefore, we have deliberately excluded the family sector in consolidation, during the sparence pressure in this spring. Supporting our families, protecting our children, facilitating the compatibility of family and profession are particular political priorities in the family ministry. In this context, it is gratifying that the share of fathers in childcare has increased significantly. I would like to stress that the federal government will also provide the countries with €70 million in funding the free kindergarten year in 2013. In this way we facilitate the compatibility of family and profession and also support single parents who have a particularly difficult time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The funds for the areas of family and youth continue to increase and will amount to around €6.5 billion in 2013. The surplus in 2013 in the Family Compensation Fund will help to gradually reduce the debt of this Fund. The promotion of our children continues in school, and education lays the foundation for our prosperity in the future. The funds for the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture are also increasing in 2013 and will amount to approximately € 8.5 billion. This makes a significant contribution to raising the level of education. Especially the promotion of the language of children with migration backgrounds, the reduction of the maximum number of students and the expansion of the New Secondary School are currently in the foreground. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In order for our society to remain competitive in the coming years, we need not only education but also creativity and innovation. The funds in the Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture are therefore also available for the promotion of art and culture, with our youth being a special target group, for example, through the continuation of the free entry into the Federal Museums. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The school lays the foundation on which the scientific institutions, in particular universities and colleges, can build. This future area will also be spent in 2013 with just over €4 billion. This represents an increase compared to 2012. The science department aims to increase the number of diplomas at universities and colleges, as well as a high degree of top-level research and finally an active participation in the European research area. The university billions are a significant improvement in the financial situation of our universities. The distribution of additional funds will not take place in accordance with the principle of foundry, but rather in a performance-oriented way. Therefore, I am pleased to introduce the so-called university space structural funds, worth €150 million. This new instrument rewards those universities that train many students and bring them to a positive degree or also recruit many third-party funds for research. And through the intelligent setting of incentives there is the development of new sources of funding for universities. Third-party funding in the Structural Funds alone brings €21 million annually, the matching funds for private donations add €3 million annually. That is not a matter of course. Many other countries are cutting short in the scientific and research budget. But we see in it a valuable investment and a way out of the crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to increase planning capacity at universities, I can assure you now that we will continue the university billions until 2016. A special reform approach at universities is the funding of a study site, which is associated with the access schemes. All those who take their studies seriously and work towards a successful degree should find optimal conditions. But if you just register and do not actively study, the resource structure at the universities is distorted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the colleges, the federal government increases the number of study places per year financed by the federal government by more than 500. And the Institute for Science and Technology has also become a success story. Here we demonstrate wide vision and have already secured a billion euros by 2026, so that we are at the world's top in the field of research in the long term. Additional research funds are also budgeted at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology, which in 2013 totals approximately € 504 million. This is above the value of the year 2012 because research and innovation are at the top of this Federal Government's list of priorities. The enhanced cooperation between industry and science is promoted and is aimed at increasing the re-establishment of research-intensive companies. Through competence centres such as the Christian Doppler Society or modern technology cluster, we strengthen the cooperation of business and scientific research. With this we increase the innovative power of Austrian companies, expand technology transfers and push for international cooperation in the field of research and development. At the same time, the potential of skilled workers in our country, particularly women, is better exploited. Around €2.9 billion is available for transport, innovation and technology, in particular in order to further modernise the transport infrastructure. These are investments in the future. Public transport is environmentally friendly and therefore contributes to ecologically sustainable economies. The funds available will also be used to improve road safety. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In times of particular economic challenge, it is important to set growth impulses. This task is dedicated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and aims to strengthen the competitiveness of Austrian companies and the Austrian export industry. For this purpose, more than €421 million will be available to the Ministry of Economic Affairs in 2013. As already mentioned, a special focus is a founding offensive with a Business Angel Fund, which will provide dynamic, growth-oriented entrepreneurs with risk capital in conjunction with private investors. In addition, we set up a State Entrepreneurship Fund. In addition to the offensives for young entrepreneurs, the Internationalisation Plan creates the optimal framework conditions for the export industry. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The tourism strategy also focuses on Austria's advertising activities and the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank Society. The future needs security. The Federal Ministry of the Interior can expect more funds in 2013 than in 2012 and will have around €2.5 billion available. This will maintain the high level of internal safety in our country as well as efficient traffic monitoring to protect Austrians on our roads. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When it comes to security for our citizens, I cannot and do not want to save. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] The executive receives the means it needs to ensure safety in our country every day and to face the major challenges. These challenges include the fight against crime in general, as well as the fight against cybercrime, the fight against organised towlessness and asylum abuse. An orderly execution in the area of asylum and migration will continue. In the field of security, the initiatives of the Federal Ministry of the Interior aim to improve protection against violence, especially against women, minors and seniors. The ongoing administrative reform in the field of the Ministry of the Interior is particularly successful. The reorganisation of the security authorities with the creation of nine national police departments has succeeded in combining the full performance of the security tasks with slimmer, more cost-effective structures. Similarly, in the new Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, the competences of 194 authorities are pooled in one office. In the area of integration, there is a further €5 million for early language support during the kindergarten year, with the federal government supporting the municipalities. Language and education are the key to successful integration. It is good that there is the national action plan for integration here. The focus here is also the German language, as well as measures to qualify for the labour market and thus benefits, which allow for faster independence and integration in rural areas as well as the provision of legal cultural values. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Each year, 13 700 civilians make an indispensable contribution to our society in the health and social sphere, in the rescue, in retirement and nursing homes, in refugee care or at memorials. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Not long!]] Therefore, every cent in civil service is a good investment in the preservation and security of our excellent social affairs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the civil servants, we also have irreplaceable multipliers for the voluntary activities in the respective organisations. 80 percent of civil servants remain loyal to their organization for years after civil service as volunteer staff and volunteer staff. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] If all of this were to be done by professionals, not only would our social system suffer a damage, but it would also dispel our budget. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, I support volunteering in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf and congratulation of the Abg. Bucher.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's a reasonable thing!]] The Austrian judicial system is in favour of safeguarding legal certainty and legal peace, while ensuring access to justice by offsetting social and other disadvantages. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't believe that! Or?]] Procedures by courts and prosecutors shall be conducted objectively, fairly and independently and shall be carried out in an appropriate duration. The purpose of the penalty is to reintegrate and prevent relapse. In total, €1.29 billion will be available to the judicial unit next year. In addition, the Ministry of Justice receives 93 additional posts. In particular, I would point out the long-term common concern of the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Federal Ministry of Justice to continue to force on the future asset-law arrangements, namely on capital loss or loss of assets, in all areas of the fight against crime, where there is a high level of crime, because it is up to the perpetrators to withdraw the resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 2013, the Federal Chancellery has funds of just over €340 million. In the Federal Chancellor's Office's department, the new Federal Administrative Court is established and the 2013 budget provides funding for this. In addition, the Federal Chancellery also devotes itself to other essential administrative aspects such as quality-secured work processes in the asylum court and the further development and modernisation of public personnel management. In the area of women's and equality policies, I would like to highlight the intervention agencies against violence in the family. The Federal Chancellery also takes care of Austrian interests in the area of EU regional policy. The Supreme Institutions, namely the President's Office, Parliament, the Constitutional and Administrative Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Auditors, shall, by means of the means available to them, carry out the impact objectives set out in the Federal Finance Act 2013. I would like to stress the additional funding at the Public Prosecutor's Office, which serves the implementation of the OPCAT International Torture Convention and the associated change of the Human Rights Advisory Council from the Ministry of the Interior to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In 2013, the Federal Ministry of State Defense and Sport has around €2.15 billion at its disposal, targeting, in the use of funds, the diverse tasks of the state defense, the contribution to international peacekeeping and assistance in the event of disaster. Sport promotion is aimed at promoting top-level sport and also at animating more people in Austria to promote health-enhancing movement. In 2013, the federal government is promoting the Alpine Ski World Cup in Schladming, the construction of the stadium in St. Pölten and the Schruns ski facility to report only a few things. As the lawyer of the taxpayers, I would point out that I am giving a clear rejection to a cost explosion by any change in our military system. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Oh! Listen! Listen!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an intercoalitional fight speech!]] We cannot, on the one hand, make reforms, manage savings potential and take offensive measures to advance our Republic, and on the other hand force a more expensive and sometimes unfinancing model. I therefore recommend transparency and plausibility in the figures for each model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] The citizens of Austria can be confident that, no matter how the vote takes place, I will have special attention afterwards to what would be a cost explosion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The security of our country belongs to the perception of our foreign policy interests. Therefore, ensuring foreign and security policy as well as the European interests of Austria is at the heart of the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as providing assistance to those in need abroad. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Cap will then explain everything!]] A very important area of the department is also development cooperation, which contributes to the sustainable reduction of poverty and fortification of peace and human security as well as the preservation of the environment in the partner countries. It was ensured that the resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not be reduced in this area. An increase in funds compared to the previous plan of € 6.6 million is here a command of humanity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we also want to contribute to the positive image of Austria in the world through an active foreign culture policy. The Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs will have a total of €402.6 million in 2013. This also means further reforming the budget for the next year. In order to achieve this saving objective, reforms are being carried out in the administrative area, in particular with regard to further closures by representative authorities abroad. Through reform measures, we are able to save money that we can invest in future-proof offensive measures. In economically troubled times, social security is of particular importance to our people. The Federal Ministry for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection therefore seeks to improve the working and working capacity of older workers in particular, as well as the increased participation of women in the labour market, as well as guaranteed teaching and training places for young people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For work, the BMASK has around €6.4 billion of funding available for the field of work than in 2012. For some time now, Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. But every unemployed person is too much. And the unemployment rate is currently rising again, even though it still accounts for half of the EU average. The good work of our Social Minister ensures that we will continue to be the best in employment, employment for people and jobs in our businesses in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That was a little sugar for the coalition partner now!]] In the area of social and consumer protection, the BMASK has around €2.9 billion in 2013. The protection of care is a particular priority for people in need and the support of their families. The reorganisation of the care system is shown in the budget, for example, by the donation of the care fund of € 200 million. Key resources are also made available for the 24-hour care. Sustainable security of pension provision requires a corresponding long-term financial viability of our pension system. The federal funds available to the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection amount to around €9.97 billion, i.e. almost €10 billion, something below the value of the Federal estimates 2012. This also applies to civil servants' pensions for which €8.69 billion are planned in 2013. The reform measures of the Federal Government already have an effect, such as the efforts to approximate the actual retirement age to the statutory one. We are guilty of youth, who also has a right to receive a proper penalty. We need to secure the pension system by making it financially viable in the long term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The health sector is geared towards ensuring a comprehensive, quality-secured health care for our people, financed by social security contributions and solidarity through tax subsidies. Health care and prevention are of particular importance. More funds are available for all these tasks in 2013: €926 million. The health insurance companies play an essential role in our health care. Efforts towards the sustainable rehabilitation of the cash registers and the benefits of savings potential in the health sector are being successful and are supported by the Cash Structure Fund, with the Federal Government continuing to make funds available. Together with the countries and social security, the Minister for Health and Health and I have agreed to take additional measures for the sustainable financing of the health system and to align the increase in public funds to GDP growth. High house! Economic development also requires the agriculture and forestry to adapt to new circumstances. Expenditure on agriculture, forestry and water management will fall slightly in 2013 compared to 2012 and will amount to €2.1 billion. [[Abg. We need new ads!]] The agricultural sector is thus financing the sustainable development of a vital rural area and ensures the overall agricultural production of food and therefore the sustainable supply of domestic quality products. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mr Grosz: Mrs Minister, what kind of advertising is planned?]] In addition, the Ministry of Life shall ensure the sustainable protection of water resources and the protection against natural hazards. [[Abg. Petzner: The Farmers' Federation!]] In this context, I would like to point out that the emergency measures adopted by the Federal Government to help victims of the storms of this summer are unbureaucratic in the budget implementation, because those who help quickly help twice! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This budget sets the right impetus for our agriculture. But the forthcoming EU budget is also a key element in how our hard-working farmers continue. This budget fulfils all the conditions for the collection of the funds in Brussels. It is the year of decision for our farmers. National and European agricultural policy must now create the conditions for the future trend of agriculture to take place in Austria. In Austria, a clear commitment to a comprehensive ecological agriculture, to payments for less favoured areas and to promoting rural development is needed. I am also fighting for this in Europe as a Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the field of the environment, the Ministry aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the use of renewable energy. The goal for Austria is the energy autarchy. This creates independence and secures economic growth and jobs: "green jobs". These "green jobs" are the job and growth engine we need in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This industry has grown despite the economic crisis. The conservation and improvement of environmental quality and biodiversity as well as improvements in the area of waste disposal and wastewater disposal are also on the agenda of the resort, which budgets around € 658 million for the environment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The promotion of thermal rehabilitation will continue in 2013. This creates an impressive lever for triggering environmentally relevant investments. This will create or ensure about 10 000 jobs. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, to my own place. The Federal Ministry of Finance is facing major challenges with its more than 13,000 Austrian employees. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure a modern, service and customer-oriented and economical financial management, on the other hand, to have an overall view of our assets, the assets of the Republic, and an overall view of the tax money in a watchful light, as a lawyer of taxpayers and taxpayers, I call for the view of the entire state financial situation. In addition, the Ministry of Finance is on the front line in the banking and debt crisis management process in Europe. Austria has an internationally highly regarded tax administration, which claims to be close to its customers, and which offers reliefs for public authorities through the use of state-of-the-art technologies. At this point, a great thank you to my employees, who do excellent daily work for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Through modern information centre in every financial office throughout Austria, we offer personal service for citizens and direct contact possibilities through trained staff and experts. An up-to-date example is the new Vienna-Mitte financial centre, which will open its doors from December 2012 onwards. Nine financial offices in Vienna will find their new home in the future at a central location in Vienna-Mitte. This offers the Viennans a barrier-free, modern contact point and the employees of the financial management a modern workplace. Over three million Austrians as well as 340 000 companies are already using our FinanzOnline portal for their government contact with finance. FinancialOnline is a classic example of more service and less cost and not only contributes to a more efficient administration, but is also the most successful eGovernment application in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another milestone in the IT strategy of the Federal Ministry of Finance is the corporate service portal – the central service website of the Austrian administration for the economy. Different reporting and information obligations to the administration mean a high level of time and financial burden for companies. Meeting 230 million times a year Companies in Austria are one of the 5,700 federal information obligations, in particular with regard to authorities and statistics. This changes with the company service portal. Companies only need a portal for all the authorities to the federal government as well as to find information. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The advantages are obvious: Information around the clock, once logged in and the most important e-government applications of the federal government can use, highest security, a central input option, custom layouts and information tailored to the companies, cost savings through online procedures for applications and online data transfer. Currently, numerous e-Government services are available in the corporate service portal, such as FinanzOnline, electronic data exchange with social insurance companies, the contribution accounts for insured persons or the contribution accounts for authorised agents, e.g. tax consultants, the online service of the building workers' holiday and settlement funds, the central arms register, e-accounts to the federal government, data processing register online and the control system for the automatic gambling. Further eGovernment applications of the federal government will be added continuously. They therefore recognize the reform agenda we are setting up within and together with the other resorts. Such a reform agenda is also ambitious real estate and land management. We have reduced the areas of buildings and objects in the financial management sector by more than 100 000 m2 in the Federal Ministry by a targeted plan, and this will continue by an additional 82 000 m2 by 2015. The experience gained from the project will allow us to contribute to the area management planned throughout the country, which will bring savings in the three-digit million range in the next few years. Another priority, ladies and gentlemen, is the fight against organised criminal energy. Extensive fraud is my top priority, because tax fraud and tax fraud lead to distortions of competition and damage to the economy and to the fair taxpayers. All operational units of finance, such as the anti-fraud units, the financial police, the customs investigation, the large-scale audit, the tax investigation, are required to track all forms of criminal energy jointly, networked and know-how across borders. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The corresponding priorities by special commissions show successes, especially in combating illegal employment, in the field of social and VAT fraud, in organised tax evasion and especially in illegal gambling. In cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Justice, as well as with the trade and security authorities and the health insurance companies in the districts, we proceed in the interests of taxpayers and taxpayers. We have already acquired several dozens of millions of latent charges in this year – and that will continue. A rule of law is an advantage to a location, and I am fighting for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On all these pillars, the budget is based on these principles, which are guiding principles for our future policy. I want an Austria where social peace reigns, prosperity flourishes, and people have a quality of life that makes their lives particularly worth living. Our Republic guarantees us, through our constitution, a freedom that gives everyone the right to shape his life in the way it or he considers it to be right within the framework of the rule of law. In order to secure all of this, it takes a budget with the right focus and framework conditions. And I introduced such a one today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are committed to saving and reducing the deficit so that we can have more room for the future. We are putting in place the right offensive measures to create growth, to secure jobs and to ensure prosperity. We create the conditions for Austria to be at least as good as today as tomorrow. Our goal, however, is that we stand there even better. I go my way together with my colleagues on the government bank and with the courage to actively change something and with the will for design and clear consequence, things I announce, also to implement – always with an eye-to-eye balance and balance. [[Abg. Petzner: With everyone? With Mr. Darabos? Except for Darabos!]] For stable finances through reforms and for growth through offensive measures! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e4336	I thank Mrs. Federal Minister. The first reading will take place tomorrow, in which the first official speeches on the budget will also be made. [[10:36:00]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1899, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Treasure Act (1919 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1914, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which a federal law on the effectiveness of Regulation (EU) No. 648/2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade registers (Central Counterpartite Full-Partition Act (ZGVG), as well as the Financial Market Supervisory Act and the Finality Act (1924 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e4377	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e4413	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been wondering about it all morning: Why does the Federal Chancellor look so opposite on the government bank? Is it still the result of the party's day, which lets him look so far – or was it the speech of Mrs Fekter's Minister of Finance? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am not yet aware of this, probably a mixture of both. Or perhaps it was the negative energy that has always been conspired, the criminal energy or negative energy that has been expressed in the budget speech. [[Abg. Grosz: The “organized criminal energy”!]] You said today and write for an hour and 20 minutes your budget speech. We have briefly figured out how high, as we have heard in these 80 minutes, the re-indebtedness of the Austrians has failed: € 1.4 million new debt. During this budget speech, which lasted an hour and 20 minutes, we came to € 1.4 million of new debt. And if you make yourself up and talk about “dreiklang” in your budget speech, of this budgetary discipline in the form of economy, as you have written and said, of courage to structural reforms and offensive measures, then I must say: He is indeed in vain. There is a further debt of over €6.3 billion. At present, the deficit is €9.2 billion per year. This seems to me like an overweight woman, Mrs Fekter – like an overweight person who is constantly praised and says, I am taking off now. And every time he puts himself on the balance, he's got five pounds more again. The same is true of your budget speeches when I look at them: From year to year, this is a sad game, where the respective Minister of Finance or the respective Minister of Finance in the budget speech says that the situation is difficult, but one is trying to improve everything, and that will all get better in the future. And at some point, in 2016 we'll have a zero deficit, someday we'll somehow deal with all of this. This is like a repeated grave speech every year, which truly seems like a game of mourning – whether it was Mr. Molterer, Mr. Pröll, or in this case you. [[Abg. Krainer: On the matter!]] I remember a saying that is going on at least in the older generation, Mr. Krainer, – at least my grandmother has always given him the best. She has always said: “Tomorrow, only today, all lazy people say.” – And exactly that is what your budget speech reminded me again today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now saying quite consciously that you are truly a debt giant and a reform dwarf, Mrs Fekter, Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Krainer: It is now about the Federal Treasures!]] Yes, but today I am taking out the freedom to comment on this financial development and on the budget speech, even if you do not, Mr Krainer. The fact is that we have the highest debt in the Second Republic today. This is not really mentioned in your budget speech. It is discussed and talked about each time about other numbers. [[Abg. Krainer: On the matter!]] It is the talk of 75.4 percent debt to GDP. In fact, it's over 90 percent! [[Abg. Krainer: You could at least pretend to talk about it!]] That's the matter, Mr. Krainer! We have more than 90 percent of public debt to GDP, which will almost disappear from this federal government. [[Abg. Krainer: You could at least talk about it! A sentence!]] We already have €285 billion of public debt. This means more than 90 percent of GDP, and this means about €30 000 of government debt per Austrian citizen. That's gonna be neglected again and again. They are talking about a great reduction in the deficit, which is only driving us further into a further state of record debt. You just have to say this critically today. Your statements were partly untrue, and I would like to make that right. They have said that the Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded Europe. No, Mrs Fekter, not Europe, the European Union has received it. [[Abg. Krainer: It's about the Federal Treasures!]] Europe is more than the European Union. However, we are now wondering whether the price can be taken seriously at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Obama has already received this prize – and now the European Union, although in Greece, Spain, Portugal, because of the euro that threatens social peace, we are experiencing mass demonstrations with hundreds of thousands of people everywhere, who ultimately have to suffer from this development today. One thing I found brave: In your budget speech, you have today at least confirmed the transparency and plausibility of the figures, even in the debate on military service, and that is, in the reverse – quite rightly, but also very critically considered by you – that until now Mr Darabos was neither plausible nor transparent. [[Abg. Krainer: A sentence on the matter, please! A sentence!]] That is a real contribution. On your budget speech, perhaps one of the essential points. [[Abg. Krainer: A sentence on the matter!]] We already have 599 proposals from the Court of Auditors relating to administrative and health reform on the table. There are new additional proposals each year, over 599. To this day, you have not implemented anything in this area, nothing, complete standstill! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What about the Landesverwaltungsgerichtbar? One of the biggest reforms!]] Full standstill, when it comes to finally making savings economically, makes areas of administration efficient
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e4601	Mr Klubobmann, please take a second. Mr Krainer, I would like to ask for a reluctance. We agree that the first speakers on these two agenda items will, of course, also address the budget and that the Rules of Procedure will be more generously interpreted. For all other speakers after this first round, I will pay more attention to it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e4625	It is very good that Mr Krainer, too, will be informed of parliamentaryism, can still teach him. It is crucial that the Court of Auditors should make an update from year to year and that more and more good and important reform proposals have been presented, which have been ignored until now. We really wonder what the Federal Government is doing in this area. - Nothing! There is total inactivity, there is no complete lack of courage or will to enforce, once and for all, the necessary reform proposals to the countries which the Court of Auditors has presented. If you are unable to do this, you have the opportunity to do so here in the house. In the context of the Austrian talks, in which I also participated, the opposition parties assured everyone that they are willing or able to imagine themselves when it comes to concrete, good and correct administrative efficiency or also health reforms, to guarantee constitutional majority voting. We can also give the national leaders a little bit of a constitutional majority, and we do not have to insist on this inaction, as you have done up to now. This, in the end, also draws like a red thread through your entire approach when it comes to meeting the demands that revenue, expenditure and responsibility for tasks should be united in one hand. There's not really something going on. If we are to assess the burden rate of the Austrians today by 42 percent, we must say: This is the highest load rate in the Second Republic. If you experience such a burden and at the same time the population has to suffer the most unjust form of tax development, namely inflation, then you have to counter it. Just then, in fact, it takes a package that reduces taxes, just then, at last, it needs a tax relief for workers and the service providers in society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Reduce the tax rate to 25 percent – a very important step that the Freedom Party so far negates – entrance tax rate to 25 percent reduce the average tax rate to 37 per cent – this is exactly what the workers and the service providers are saying that they would have more money in the wallet and could boost the economic cycle; it would be extremely necessary and important – and equally the maximum tax base from 60 000 gross annual income to 100,000 gross annual income! Then one would really relieve the hardworking workers, the middle class in Austria. In the case of more than 100 000 gross incomes, the maximum tax rate is set and solidarity tax for the rich is to be found, but that is exactly what the comrades do not want. They constantly debate further injustices. They are responsible for the injustice that Austrian citizens today have to spend €20 billion on pleite states and bank speculators and are held responsible with responsibilities. They debate further injustices. After you have already shortened the family allowance and the care allowance on the back of the poorest of the poor in Austria, you are debating further injustices of a mass tax that you call wealth tax, but with which you really want to hit the mass, namely property. People have not stolen the property they have developed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has been saved from taxed income, or perhaps it has been labored through loans for decades to produce a small dwelling or a small family home – and you want to unjustly hit again with new burdens in order to in fact further burden your own population! There you have to tell the people the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! We have today, as has been said, the highest charges of the Second Republic, as well as an insanity of promotion, and you are not prepared to accept them and to examine them accordingly. We have a burden on the European Stability Mechanism, for which you have the responsibility. Highly unfair that Austrian tax money is transferred towards the bank speculators! We liberals therefore ensure two actions at the Constitutional Court, because we bear responsibility for the Austrian population and take advantage of every opportunity to use democratically and legally in order to avert such an attack on the wallets of Austrian citizens. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If one hears again and again about the so-called European rescue package, the European Rescue Screen, then of course one must also briefly address the most unfair form of taxation, namely inflation development. In the end, there is a sluggish expropriation of savers today, there is also a sluggish reduction in revenue, the salaries, there is no balance of inflation, no adjustment of inflation, neither in wages nor in pensions, and prices are constantly rising in incredible dimensions. In the food sector, we have 20 percent higher costs than Bavaria. What's that about? – Of course, also in monopoly in Austria, which is still not ready to break up. The population is suffering today. A sluggish expropriation is carried out. However, the Minister of Finance is pleased and thinks that only 1 per cent interest is interest because the economy is so great in us. As if this were not something that the ECB is driving by repressing money, as if it did not exactly make sense to drive inflation forward, so to speak, on the back of the citizens, and to reduce public debt. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Inflation is at all the most wrongful form of wealth tax and taxation, which you will still bet and where you are pretending to be a great hero. If you go to the bank today and negotiate interest for your savings deposits there, you get the answer: Why should we pay you more than 1 percent if we get the money at the National Bank at any time even cheaper?- Oh, my God! The current situation looks so that at a given inflation rate of 2.3 percent – in fact, it is much higher, at least twice as much as the Swiss bank has shown UBS – 10 000 € real value at the end of the year is only worth more than € 9 830, and if one does not assume the official, but the real, that is, the double inflation rate, then one must take at least 4 percent real loss of savings per year. With the 143 billion € private savings from the Austrians, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, this inflation means a loss of 5.7 billion € per year. In other words, every year only €5.7 billion is taken away from your savings annually by this unjust tax such as inflation development, as I have shown it. So there is a lot in the arsenal, and it will therefore be necessary to put in place really different measures from those announced today. The continuation of debt policy, and the whole of it, would be nice to say that the deficit has been reduced, but in fact not to say that the development of debt continues, that we already have more than 90 percent of GDP of government debt, and that additional taxpayers of the Austrians are spending taxes on bank speculators and pleite states, which is in fact almost negligent Krida that is being operated there. This is usually indicated in the private sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e4752	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e4774	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! High house! First of all, I should like to say a word to you, Mr Strache: It is, of course, unacceptable for you to consider the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to be incorrect to the European Union. Of course, this is your right. [[Abg. Kickl: This is an improper equation!]] But to justify this with unrest or with protests that exist in Portugal or Spain or also in Greece, I think this is very strange. [[Abg. New builder: Greece!]] The fact that there has been such a long period of peace in Europe and a period without war conflicts is due to the end of the European Union. The same thing as non-negligent protests in a few countries is probably not fair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In contrast to you, I am fully convinced that the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the European Union has been a very correct recognition for a peace project that is looking for all over the world, but you do not have to stick to your opinion! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Next year, Goldman Sachs will get him!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It should be remembered once again that it was a hearing budget deficit that it was excessive government debt, which is primarily responsible for having financial problems in Greece today, but also in other European countries. Unfortunately, countries such as Austria, Germany and others must now ensure the financial viability of these countries and, finally, the stability of our common currency, which we should never forget! – especially in Austria, has brought great benefits so far. We really need to bite our teeth together now and to help secure the currency to these countries. But I still mean that it is the right way and that it is in truth without a really suitable alternative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can't repeat it often enough: We too, not only the countries mentioned, but also in Austria, but also not to the same extent, but also we have lived on our conditions, and we also urgently need to put our state budget in order! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Who “we”?]] – Mr Gaßner, when I speak of “we”, I am not speaking of any individual Austrian or Austrian, but of the State. The public hand has lived over its conditions – at the end at the expense of the next generations. Our medium-term financial framework, which we decided on a proposal from the Minister of Finance already in spring, finally brings us back to 2016, where a rich country like Austria should have long been, namely, a balanced budget, and brings us back to falling government debt ratios as early as 2014. That, I think, is a great merit for our Minister of Finance, who has created the basis for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is also a good news for our future generations. This budget is a convincing contribution to living generation justice. Austria is with a tax rate of 44 percent – you have to say this again and again: 44 percent! – regrettably a high tax country, the more important it is for the Minister of Finance to become the taxpayer of taxpayers, the more important it is that this budget succeeds in rehabilitating this budget and the debt situation, and that the Minister of Finance is above all able to achieve the rehabilitating of the budget by means of savings. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. That's a bad joke!]] That is a great merit, because we already have enough taxes in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the medium term, it must even be the goal not only to prevent new taxes, but to reduce our tax and tax rate as quickly as possible below 40 percent! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] One of these budget concepts, ladies and gentlemen, is very remarkable: There have been many unmistakable calls for savings to be detrimental to economic growth, for savings to endanger social security. - Please don't! Austria is the best example of rehabilitating a budget without endangering economic growth without endangering social peace in that country. [[Abg. Street: Where do you clean up the budget? This is an untruth, you do not renovate!]] Austria is an example of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[The speaker's coughing.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's where even the clubman screws up in the untruth! Where's a refurbishment?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our economic growth is above the EU average, and our unemployment rate is well below the EU average. We are even the best in employment and have the lowest unemployment rate throughout Europe. This budget lays the foundations for us to continue this success path. Another, ladies and gentlemen: We are also pursuing a new historical path with this budget. We say goodbye to the camera radicalism in the design of the budget, we are entering an age of periodic and effective accounting. This is a demonstration project for a state budget worldwide, and this is what we owe to a unanimous decision in this House. I would like to express my thanks to all the political groups once again. We can all be proud of this budgetary technique, of this completely changed budget management and budget design in the future. It is not about the moment that financial managers from many other countries are piling from the finance ministries to Austria and in our Ministry of Finance are looking at this new budgetary technique because they also want to transfer it to their own country. It will be an opportunity tomorrow to address the individual budget chapters in detail at the first reading, but one, ladies and gentlemen, can already say to this budget: It continues to reorganise our state finances, it quickly leads us to a balanced budget, to a reduction in our debt and thus, finally, to ensure growth and prosperity in this country and to secure the future for our children and children! [[Abg. Where's a decomposition? A reduction of debt is not in sight!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e4994	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5015	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! To do the form enough: We are now discussing an amendment to the Federal Treasury Code. The ceiling is increased from € 360 million to € 500 million. We are voting against this proposal, I would like to say in order because it only unnecessarily complicates the budget, outsources or conceals debt. That is why we reject this proposal. I would now like to devote the rest of my speaking time to the budget. I would also have found it cleaner if we had today as the second item on the agenda a clean report from the Committee on Corruption and here the opportunity to really discuss it cleanly - namely a written report after all these many, many hours of work, after all these pages of file study and after all that is to be concluded here for an Austrian National Council. You know that very well. [[Abg. Head: Where was your proposal?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's where he's gonna freak!]] Mr. Klubobmann's head! You know very well that it is not possible for the minority to make a different opinion if there is no majority report. And that is a circumcision of our democratic rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: and get freaky too!]] I would also have found it more serious and proper to keep the budget and the budget speeches in detail only tomorrow. In any case, we will do the same. Because it is more serious to look at this once in a while. Unfortunately, there is not much serious to look at in this budget. The only thing that was remarkable to me was the government battle on the open stage. There has already been an election campaign. – This designated aggressiveness of the Minister of Finance towards a coalition partner – I come to speak in detail about it – is truly remarkable. And I believe that it does not strengthen problem-solving competence and also the confidence of the people in a government, if you feel that there is already a year before the election campaign on every possible and impossible occasion – that is incomprehensible to me. Now to my first findings on this draft budget, which has been presented here: Found number one: There are still a few things you announced in February 2012 in the savings package. We are still quite far away from responsible handling of tax money. There are still a few large chunks missing here. What was announced was the concreteisation of health reforms. They're largely missing. Health care and hospitals, the contributions of the countries: That's largely missing. And the major reform of the funding system is largely or entirely lacking in this budget proposal. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second finding, and this is the most serious to me, concerns the question: How do we actually deal with the 2 million people in Austria who are in education? This budget has no fresh money for future investment. The whole area of childcare, school, universities, horticulture remains entirely on the status we are now, despite all the ear figs that the Austrian education system repeatedly receives again and again, and now again from the OECD. Only Turkey and Mexico have more than 16-year-olds without graduation. And I've already been so angry about this. Again and again the sentence is said that youth is the most important thing, that children are the most important in politics. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, these are Sunday speeches!]] – This sentence is simply politically not true. And it is not true again in this budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have liked us to speak a little bit of clear text about this budget. And the third finding is the most serious: The biggest hole and the biggest problem we still have in the Austrian budget situation are the Austrian problem banks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] These are the Hypo Alpe-Adria and the Bad Bank of Municipal Credit. One has to face up to what huge damage is done here on the back of the taxpayers, namely up to now 4 billion €, and now, thanks to this new budget, 2 billion € in addition to Hypo Alpe-Adria and municipal credit in essence. I find this damage really huge and avoidable. Whoever has been responsible for the Hypo Alpe-Adria system in Carinthia, I know for sure: The Rolf Holub was certainly not! You can put the blame back on each other. But now we're at a stand that's really worrying. And I would also have liked you, Mrs Finanzminister, to address this question more seriously. By the end of 2012, it was already €1.1 billion, with the capital increase in 2012 additional half a billion, and now with the 2013 budget estimate, there are another €700 million for the Hypo Alpe-Adria, and additional €200 million for guarantees. In total, the €2.5 billion is only for mismanagement in the system Carinthia. This is not about something that was primarily triggered by the financial crisis, but about something that, due to poor financial market supervision after the conversion by Minister of Finance Grasser and by homemade mismanagement – political mismanagement! - has been caused. And this is effective for crying: So much money, such huge damage, carried out on the back of the Austrian taxpayers! What would we have been able to do with these investments in the problem areas that we otherwise have? Let's imagine: €2.5 billion for universities alone! And: For the next five years, for the next legislative period, we could have solved the whole child care problem at a very, very high level, so we could have really produced Scandinavian conditions. That means: Not 25 children in one group, but a maximum of 20 and two caregivers. The whole childcare problem for the next legislative period would have been solved with a blow. That is why it is so unfortunate that this damage could have been done – even in blue and black, even because of a mistake that financial market supervision could have avoided, it would have looked more serious and more accurate. That is why Austria will have a higher deficit in 2012 and 2013 than planned, and that is why there is no room for future investment. I would therefore have expected that there would be a serious debate on consequences here too. I would like to ask you a question, Mrs Federal Minister: If you say seriously that the abolition of general military service is a danger, they are bringing the budget out of the joints and, on the other hand, no serious word on this banking problem is you no longer here? - Aha, okay. [[Abg. Grosz: She's not here at all!]] Obviously, she's not interested in it. – Mrs Minister, can we continue our dialogue with the opposition? [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, who talks next to the government bank with one of her employees]] Mrs Minister, it would be possible for us to continue our dialogue, because that would be Mrs Federal Minister, I have just referred to you specifically, I repeat: [[Abg. Grosz: This is a very one-sided dialogue, a so-called monologue!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter takes place again at the government bank.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You said in your budget speech that the abolition of the general military obligation would dissuade the budget from the joints. I really wonder in which reality you arrived here, if They do not consider the mismanagement of the Austrian banking sector with any serious, honest word and are not prepared to draw consequences from it. They disregard a mandate from the National Council, which has been given by a large majority and which is a key project to get taxpayers out of this mismanagement, namely the creation of a bank insolvency right, which is a matter of such banks being able to go into bankruptcy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: She's right!]] You miss that. This is a majority mission of the National Council. You should have put in place a bank insolvency right a long time ago. It is unfortunate that four years after the Lehman Brothers plea, both at European level and in Austria, there is still no insolvency right on the table. That's a serious accusation to you, and I'd be sorry to have you answer it. Otherwise you can find details in this budget simply and grippingly nothing new! I would like to make two points. These are very, very small sums compared to the €6 billion for banking aid – I don't want to compare them unfairly – but they are nevertheless very relevant. There has been an Austrian commitment since 40 years, which is that in the field of international development cooperation we actually come to the level where we provide 0.7 percent of our economic services to assistance, in development cooperation as well. This has been ignored for 40 years. Despite many countries that have gone a good way, despite the great willingness to donate in Austria, the Austrian Federal Government is no longer capable of freezing the cuts or going back to a level which is a Mickey Mouse level. I find this sad and, by the way, very, very sad. This is particularly due to the fact that last year Austrians for foreign disaster aid, namely for the hunger disaster at Cape Horn, have been donated by the Austrians for a single day of €3.5 million. - That's one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The other concrete change is to reduce the ticket charge again in the air tickets – as a gift to the AUA! If only we had this €10 million in foreign disaster aid! Yes, these are only very small sums, but these are sums where Austria could also show another face internationally. And I regret that it is not possible to put something serious on my feet in this area in over 40 years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our proposals would be: responsible handling of tax money! That means also a meaningful saving. And, contrary to all the Court of Auditors' proposals, to reduce environmentally harmful subsidies. This goes into the billions. Or: We could now completely abolish the promotion of occupational and private pension provision in the stock market. This is nothing but to drive the future pensioners to the stock market. I don't think so at all. Further: More fairness, especially in the tax system, when it comes to “burdening” real performance – under quotation marks – and also to relieve those people who do not pay income tax and income tax, namely people who may be BILLA-caser or do childcare that does not fall into this area at all. Liberation also from one-person companies and micro-enterprises, which often come to us again and again and say they need new fiscal frameworks, they need a completely new system in order to be able to do what they do. And in terms of wealth taxation, it must be said: I think it can no longer be an excuse after the National Bank study. Wealth is not a matter of middle class – there can be no talk of it at all! Finally, I wonder what the big SPÖ party will actually be visible from the new justice in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5215	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5237	To make the agenda enough: Of course, it is gratifying that steps are being taken in the direction of financial market regulation, that extraordinary trade is transparent and that one is turning to the area of derivatives. [[Abg. Grosz: Very passionate!]] On what was said by the Minister of Finance in the budget speech, I would like to repeat in a few points, since we have stated that we are already dealing with it a little bit today. We voted in favour of a few passages from you, Mrs Finanzminister, because we also felt that this was the right thing to do. Finally, the speech on the budget is a speech which is intended to include all the departments. But there were also passages in it that I cannot accept, apart from the fact that you have almost done so, so whether Mr Tobin would have been a long-term functionary of the ÖVP. The fact is that German Chancellor Werner Faymann was at the beginning of the only European Council, who has advertised for and has repeatedly advocated for the financial transaction tax. [[Abg. Bucher: That was the bowl! The bowl was the first!]] And now we have her. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we have eleven countries that support this, and it will come as well. I believe that this is a very great success for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also for us somewhere, because we have had a five-party agreement on this, and we have also taken a joint decision here, and this, of course, has also been a support for the policy of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, which he has then led to the success of the European Council. [[Abg. Booker: Yes, but let's stick to the truth!]] [[Abg. Grosz: That was quite different!]] On another point that you, Mrs Finanzminister, have raised in the budget speech – I do not know why you have said this, because no person is opposed to volunteering in Austria, on the contrary: We support where it is possible. I don't know why you're always constructing a contrast. I can remember that the ÖVP was originally in truth against civil service and that it was often with the arguments “Druckeberger” and: “They should move to the Federal Army, please!” and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Well, yes! And now, suddenly, there is great love for civil service. This great love of civil service is, of course, a tactical one, because you are now somehow there... – Well, but this passage was almost as if you had held it at the ÖVP Party Board before, but not in Parliament. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: there I was already!]] Yeah, well, I thought so. You built it, of course. The fact is, however, that there are many shortcomings in civil service. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] The fact is, we'll have problems when the low birth years come. This would be very negative for the German army as well as for civil service. The new social year proposed by Minister Hundstorfer: the professionalization of social services, the use of men and women, the use of young people and older people, that is high-quality care – and not that one makes it dependent on the accident of the years, some of which are poorly trained. Many do good work in civil service, but some are badly trained for it. The service also takes much shorter, not even a whole year. And then here's a talk that you suddenly feel the civil service would be the yellow of the egg. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So this has got me a little messed up, so I think it's important to comment on it. And also: What can one have about a professionalization in the Federal Army? The rails are already in this direction. This has already been started with the Federal Government Reform Commission; there are already professional components. It should simply be brought to the end of this process. And then to use the argument “cost explosion” in connection with better disaster protection, with a professionalization of the army, which, in fact, also means more security for the army, is yes, I can remember many meetings in the main committee, where it referred to the item “Foreign operations”: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Well, if they also have enough equipment, is security guaranteed in these operations? All this should now be taken into account. That's why I have to say: This text building of your appearance in the ÖVP party board was also the wrong building block here. I am willing to help with the preparation of future speeches as far as the substance is concerned, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] But now let's go to another point and your calls are interchangeable: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Years ago you made intermediate calls for the professional army, now you make calls for the military duty. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] I don't want to interfere, but the distribution of intermediate calls could better organize you in your club. But what you can actually represent positively and what is never said here is: There are again and again delegations from other countries coming to Austria who are going to the Social Ministry, who are looking at the social partners who are excited that we have such low unemployment rates and so high employment rates that we have a functioning health system and secure pensions that we see that we are even more competitive and competitive in the field of education and training. Why can't you even represent the positive here? Clearly we know that there are shortcomings there and there that there have been mistakes there and there that you have to make a little better there and there. This is undisputed, but it is not good to say anything bad, even the achievements of the diligent, the committed, the talented Austrians. I do not understand why – and the opposition is particularly talented on this point – here again and again tries to work into a collective national depression. Why? The land can be seen! I meet so many who say: I have a criticism there and a criticism there! – Well, it has to be taken up, too, that’s our job, but I am incomprehensible that everything is bad spoken and pulled down here. But well, that's the ground for those who say: Being a politician, it starts from a billion on the account! These are those who try – often difficult to understand – to explain to us that they are only the right renewal factor, even if you are a rather late professional, but the account is the argument when there is a billion slumbering around and, so to speak, tax-saving. I think it's a mistake to prepare the ground for it. One thing is clear: We will have long budget consultations. It will also be a matter of distribution justice. If 1 percent of the population has 27 percent of the funds and 10 percent of the population has 54 percent of the funds and the 100 richest Austrians have 60 billion € freely available assets and the real estate is also concentrated in a few hands, it is clear that you can focus on this. This also includes the question of how to deal with foundations, where one sees the money staying here, where one also takes care that social justice, including as a consumer and as a productive factor, plays a role so that we have employment and growth and people have money in the pocket and the state can also carry out its tasks. This is also a very, very important issue. What will also be important in the future is the fight against unemployment, the priority for investment, the effort to create jobs immediately and quickly, the development of social housing, the development of childcare, resources for active labour market policies – and all of this even more committed, with even more resources. It is important that our model remains an example. That's where I have to say: A factor that is a bit of a nuisance – what does it mean to be a bit obstructive?, even very strong! – is the problem surrounding the Land-Hypo bank in Carinthia, which uses a lot of money from the taxpayer and, of course, where you try – we have discussed it the last time – to limit the consequences as much as possible. But it's a problem. [[Abg. Petzner: Municipal credit!]] [[Abg. May. Widmann: Volksbank, Erste Bank!]] The Carinthia Group is speaking. Please, slide camera: These are those who know exactly what is known. There was even a committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Exactly!]] They can now defend that the liabilities there go up to €20 billion. This is even more than the liability of the famous ESM. [[Abg. May. Widmann: That's where you send the money!]] What needs to be put on the move there is already more than for Greece. That means: There's a problem area! You are the bearers of this problem, but you are also people who know Come out, explain that! – This, of course, has an impact on the budget. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] That's for the sake of completeness. We will therefore begin a great deal of work in Parliament, both at the meetings of the committees and here, where there will be a plenary debate. In any case, on the part of the Socialist parliamentary group, we will demand one thing in all the demands for a fit state, with all the demands that we are sustainablely economic and competitive: Social justice must always be the centre of attention so that the policy we stand for is also accepted, and that Austria remains a model.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5479	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5500	Mr President. Mr Cap, do you know what I will propose at the next Bureau meeting or presidential meeting? – That this red lamb shines every time someone says the untruth at the speaker's mouth. That would be a contribution once! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then in your speech a red light would constantly flash – and also on the government bank. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Mr Mag. Schickhofer.]] The Austrians are tired of it, and they have not deserved to be constantly lied and cheated. At some point the population of the patient thread and the Hutschnur tears! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is inconceivable with which chuzpe you get out of here every time and say the untruth – and then put yourself back in lame like a silk caterpillar and pretend as if you had said nothing! [[Rejoicing]] They are constantly talking the untruth out here – constantly the untruth! –, you say every time, the Carinthian Hypo is guilty of the decline of the Republic. This Minister of Finance and the Federal Government are to blame because she keeps us fooled all the time. That is the reality, Mr Cap, let us say that once! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then take the hypo bank to the meeting every time. I'm the last to defend the mortgage bank in this house, the last! All the painters, all the machinations belong to enlightened and put the responsible before the judge – yes! But that's what we do at the municipal credit. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Where's the woman blacksmith in front of the judge?]] This cost the taxpayer three times as much as the Hypo Alpe-Adria, and the person who was on the board of the credit bank is now sitting in the Federal Government on a SPÖ mandate: the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Schmied. [[Abg. Strache: This is protected by the Red Procuratorate, Mrs. Schmied!]] We should start with honesty, and if there is a charge against it, it should immediately withdraw from the government bank. That would be a proposal for honesty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hypo-Scandal!]] I don't want to bade the performance of Austria. No one wants this, ladies and gentlemen, because the Austrians, and especially the entrepreneurs, the small, medium-sized companies and one-person companies, do a lot for this country. We can and should be proud of this, but no one is proud of politics. [[Abg. Riepl: You have destroyed Carinthia!]] No one is proud of politics, and red and black have made a miserable contribution by arbitrarily turning off the committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: You killed Carinthia!]] [[Congratulations with BZÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] This is not a contribution to more honesty and transparency, no, it is a contribution to cover-up and mismanagement in Austria again, because we, who want to clarify honestly and eliminate the abuses, have no way to do so. [[Abg. Riepl: Yes, yes, yes!]] You don’t need to shout “Yes! ” in the second row! Where do you have something to blame me? If not, then S’ please hold back. [[the speaker is slowing down]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Mrs Federal Minister, now we are at the budget. I would really be interested in what PR agency your speech has written – whether you've hired the high-ranker again or anyone else – because it was primarily a keyword, it was also primarily an abuse of terms. They misuse the terms “offensive” and “reform” because these two terms have nothing to do with what you have said today. It is not a single offensive measure to be felt and visible, nor a single reform – neither in the past, nor is it planned in the future. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also reflected in the assessment of Austria's economic location. I recommend everyone to read the “New Zurich Newspaper” from time to time. There was a great article about Austria published in June. That's where it says "Austria's place in criticism", and that's to take seriously, because, of course, each of us is interested in the fact that money comes from outside into our economy, that investors invest in us, create jobs and prosperity in our country. Everyone here wants this – that’s what I’m “substituting” everyone. But anyone who reads this abroad will distance himself from Austria because he has no confidence in the policy of our federal government, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In fact, there is to be read what the investors are interested in. They are interested in what conditions they find in Austria when they come here and invest their money. We slipped off again, from place 11 to the 21st place. As far as competition ranking is concerned, we were in 11th place in 2007. We were even once, at the beginning of 2002, Ms. Federal Minister, you know that very well, among the top 5, better than Germany – we were better than Germany! – and are now on the 21st. It's all right. “ Quite disastrous,” reads here, “is the judgment on Austria’s tax policy. ” Mrs Finanzminister, the tax policy in Austria is hateful and is reformed! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have much too high taxes – and you are increasing the tax and tax rate with the budget you have presented again. Austria is also known as the ‘High Tax National Park’ within the European Union. They have also made a small contribution to research and development. In the field of research and development alone, we are among 55 countries on 50. It's all right. In tax policy, we are at the lowest end: 56. It's all right. As far as distribution justice is concerned, Mr Cap, in place 10. That is the best value we have as a state of Austria! Distribution justice works – everything else is dog-wrong. And at the end of this comment in the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” it says: “Middle law has certainly done a lot for the attractiveness of the site, but paralysis and expensive compromises of large coalition/social partnership are expected to be even more important.” [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly the right finding – exactly the right one! The great coalition and the social partners are the coffins of the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5697	There is now a report by Mr Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5718	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When talking about the crisis, it is also very often said that the regulation of financial markets is the necessary answer. Today's legislative proposals are also mainly discussed on the budget, but of course both are related. This bill, however, provides exactly what it is: That we are doing what is necessary to bring about regulation again in small or in many steps. This Central Counterpartite Voluntary Act is also the implementation of an EU regulation as an international response to the crisis, because 80 to 90 percent of derivative trade has so far “over the counter”, that is, past any control, and this law will finally allow for control and effective regulation of the markets. What are the consequences? – Comprehensive reporting obligations as a transparency register to make trade with derivatives more transparent and to reduce systemic risk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, financial market regulation has not yet been completed for a long time, and further efforts are needed. I am therefore saying this because a regulated and stable financial sector is also an important prerequisite for sustainable economic growth. The problem banks in Austria have also been addressed today, i.e. the banks which we, because of an irresponsible policy of the FPÖ in Carinthia, have brought them up in this way. Not only did the government, but also those in which international developments – as in the case of municipal credit and the public banks – had to make it necessary for us to act as a state saving, and not because it would have been fun for us, and not because it would be good for the budget, but because the consequences would have been worse otherwise. At the same time, however, we also need to discuss: What can we do to prevent this from happening in the future? – That is to say, it is the Banking Union at European level to enforce a regulation for large banks as well as small banks and to implement and implement banking insolvency in Europe and also in Austria as quickly as possible. However, we will not avoid, together with the supervision of FIMBAG and all those involved, discussing the structures and construction of the problem banks with the Supervisory Boards and the Institutes themselves and considering whether there are other solutions in the medium term, which may also free us from the budgetary brackets which come from this area. But one thing you also have to say honestly: It was the mismanagement that the banks have brought into this situation, not the state, and unfortunately it is now the state that needs to digest it. A second point is: Without growth and employment, we will not get out of the crisis either. Only people with work are people who can also pay taxes. Only economy that grows can also give people new jobs. It is therefore also necessary, for example, in the 2013 budget, to define clear offensive measures that create economic growth and employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These are €150 million per year in the university sector, plus €80 million, which we have already decided in Loipersdorf, €100 million of offensive funds plus €25 million, which are now even more planned for research in 2012. For the 2013 budget, these are € 190 million more for education, for the classroom, plus € 80 million more for afternoon care, € 15 million for childcare, € 100 million for thermal rehabilitation, € 30 million for the founder offensive, € 200 million for the care fund, so that the elderly people also know that if they need care, this care will also be financed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Allow me because some have asked the question: Where is the SPÖ contribution to this budget? First of all, it is a budget of the Federal Government, a common budget that has been negotiated jointly with all the departments, with all the experts responsible, and therefore also bears the manuscript of both parties in that government. But, of course, I could also refer to the contribution of fair taxes that have been introduced, to financial markets, to banks, to speculation with real estate, to speculation with shares, to restricting loopholes in corporate tax law and to foundations, which in total brings just, financial market-oriented, additional taxes for the 2013 budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And to say that quite clearly: What's the difference? Saving alone would be the wrong way, we also need measures to strengthen the economy. And that is what I call the consolidation of the government's budget, that is, the use of more money in future investment. But, finally, let me also point out the following: We have now reached phase 2 of the new budgetary law with this budget. Phase 1 has that we have defined variable and fixed categories of expenditure, i.e. that the social state – labour market policy, social security in this country, family policy – is automatically financed in accordance with the economic needs that, if you wish, Keynes has been legally anchored in the budgetary system. We are now entering Phase 2, where there is also an impact control, where gender budgeting is finally implemented in the individual departments. All these are important steps. In conclusion, however, I would like to express my personal thanks to the staff in the Ministry of Finance. The crisis alone is already a major challenge for the many employees, but the creation of a budget always means that there are weeks where you have to work very hard, and without the support of these employees, you could not run a house like the Minister of Labour and I, or Parliament discuss a budget as you do today.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5840	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5861	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to the Bundeschatzscheinsetz in order to make the Rules of Procedure sufficient. Mrs Glavischnig said earlier that this increase would have made it very complicated now and at all. – I would like to stress the following: For the first time, Schilling and ECU are being converted to euro. Secondly, the issue of the Federal Treasures is intended to secure and therefore does not justify any financial debt within the meaning of § 65 para. 1 of the Federal Budget Act. On the contrary: This will secure our budgets in the next few years in a sustainable way. At the same time, however, I would like to refer to Mr Cap, who said that the Federal Chancellor is the one who has now achieved that the financial transaction tax is coming and that a total of 11 countries are involved. I would just like to remind you, Mr Cap, that there was a five-party resolution request here in the House. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I said!]] But that was long before the time when Mr Faymann was Federal Chancellor, that was still under the bowl government. Of course we all know that success has many fathers, but I think we should stick to the truth: It was a matter of concern to all of us, and it is much further behind that this House has made this request, and we should all confess to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But it has enforced Federal Chancellor Faymann!]] - Yeah, sure. I would now like to refer to the opposition, which always, when it comes to budgets, says that one could have done more, it would have been possible to do differently. – Then there was doubt last year and also after our reform package in spring: What about the financial transaction tax? It's budgeted, it won't come! And there was doubt about the Swiss agreement. One can certainly make fundamental opposition here, Mr Bucher, and also all the others who feel that they are in favour of the opposition, but one can of course fight for something. And if Mr. Cap has said today that the Federal Chancellor has fought for the financial transaction tax: It is also fighting against the Minister of Finance, and she has also fought for the agreement with Switzerland. It has come to pass, but I have not seen or heard from any of the two-fed shoulder-knock victims at this point in time that a fight has also led to something positive. And I congratulate Mrs Finanzminister and the entire Federal Government on this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress the following again, because we always give people the impression that we have to take care of our own types of Schreberg: I believe that Austria is a country that has a tradition of showing solidarity to others and of course also stands for solidarity in the European Union. But this means, of course, that others must also do their homework, that there must be reforms, that reforms must be implemented, that abuse must be combated in the debt countries, and that taxes must be introduced. We also need to do our homework. And those who have listened carefully to the Minister of State today have also learned that there are many special commissions on tax fraud. The financial police, the large-scale audit is doing great work. So we do our homework. Mr Bucher, if you always take the negative examples of where we are in the research quota or where we are in other areas: Why don't you even say that we are European champions as far as unemployment is concerned, that we are below 5 percent? There we are European champions in the pan-European comparison, and that is something that should be stretched out once again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Mr Dolinschek, particularly you, where you once were the State Secretary in this social area: It is quite essential that we say that here too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: It went better – with you in the coalition!]] We all have wishes, ladies and gentlemen. We want tax reforms, we want relief from families, we want relief from the middle class. Each of us has wishes for young entrepreneurs, for employees, for commuters and commuters. But don't be angry with me. Previously, we have to see that the government budget is so secure that we have room for manoeuvres to also implement reforms. We cannot demand, but then do nothing to allow us to afford ourselves reforms and a discharge of citizens. That is where we have to start, and we will have to work properly for the next few years. We will support Mrs Financiary Minister and, if so, the Minister of Finance will jointly present a reform package with us, which will certainly be fairer, less tax provision and more performance-friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5951	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e5972	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, something positive, because you always claim that we always see only the negative things in your budget. The new budgetary law is very positive, but it is significant for the work of this government that you want to sell it again as your success. Firstly, it is due to the fact that all the parties in this House have cooperated in this new budgetary law. You know exactly that our budget speaker Alois Grabauer has been calling for changes in this area for years. Of course, your innovative officials in the Ministry of Finance are also due to the fact that we now have the new budgetary law. Only Mr Kopf has found it worth mentioning briefly that the other parties have joined in. You have not mentioned this with a word, you are trying to sell it here as a success of the government. This is significant for the government, for government work at all, because the government, both sides, both red and black, always regard the activity of this Parliament and the Members as an alibid. You have been removed in the meantime, so that you say that we decide to do something in the Council of Ministers – to which I will come – and then the Members have the opportunity to discuss a little here. At the end of the day, however, no addition, no point, nothing is changed, because you're already pretending that from the outset. And the media are already jumping up to the whole theater. You read in the morning: The Council of Ministers has decided on the budget for 2013. – I say something to you: The Council of Ministers shall not decide at all! According to the Austrian Federal Constitution, Parliament is still adopting the laws and also the budget for the next year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Take note of this at last! But that's significant for the way you're doing here. As a headline for your budget speech, write: ‘Stabile finance through reforms’. Now let's put aside budgetary law. Show me on the 30 pages you read here in an hour and 20 minutes where the reforms are there! It's far and wide nothing to see! That's what your Wifo and IHS specialists say, which are paid by you, that this federal government's willingness to reform is very, very poor. Let us come to all the figures that you stress here again and again, and to your repeated statement, also by the representatives of the government parties: We are the best in Europe! – Do you know why Greece is where it is today? Because they've been tricking for years. They have smuggled into the EU with false figures, they have received the euro through false figures, with the help of Goldman Sachs at the time and many other institutions. Everyone knew, and no one responded. Where they end up, you'll see: You will no longer get hold of this, even if you still take over so many billions of money from the Austrians in the Aegean. You're not getting hold of this anymore. You may not do it to this extent by the Federal Government, but in a small context you do it exactly the same. You're tricking with your unemployment numbers, too. They say Austria has the best unemployment rate in Europe, we are 4.4 percent. – In the case of 3.6 million people in employment in Austria, you do not have to be accountable to expect that 4.4 percent will not. And why not? Because of course you do not say that you hide 66 000 Austrians in so-called AMS programs, where the output is relatively low. They do not say that in Austria we have the youngest pensioners in the EU. That's not what you're saying. Besides that, we also have the oldest graduates. And what you're not saying is that youth unemployment is also serious in us. They hide thousands of young people in so-called ÜLAs. Once apart from the cost of a youth in 18 000 €. You have to let that break on your tongue. At the famous Blum-Bonus, which was a success model, a youth in three years cost €8 400. Now a youth in the ÜLAs costs 18 000 € per year. Tens of thousands of young people You there to beautify the unemployment statistics vis-à-vis the EU. And that goes on in all other areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll get to the inflation rate. They speak of an official inflation rate of 2.6 percent and then also say that the pension adjustment for the next year and also for the years to come will be 1 percent below inflation, without protest. Well, if Khol and Blecha decide, there's no protest either. The protest of the pensioners will You will see next year's election at the latest when they come up with how the inflation rate in Austria is really moving. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't assume that a pensioner buys a new TV, a new laptop every year. These are exactly the products that lower inflation rates. They have to start from weekly purchasing, and we now have an inflation rate of well over 4 percent, which according to experts – and well-known experts say so – will increase to over 5 percent by the end of the year. Now I'm just calling you a few numbers so you can imagine that better. Weekly shopping has been expensive by 4.3 percent, heating oil by 11.6 percent, the spray by 9.3 percent. Prices for bread, meat products and cereal products have partly increased by up to 7.6 percent. And the main prize driver at the moment are clothing and shoes – you can't ask a pensioner to run naked through the area in winter, when it's cold – they've become 17.4 percent more expensive. Explain to the pensioners that they will get through with 1.8 percent pension increase over the next few years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have an annual purchasing power loss of 3 to 4 percent! And if you stay in the government for even longer and that goes on for another five or six years, then in five or six years they will have 20 percent less purchasing power with their income you can afford them. You will then see how pensioners will react to your so-called reforms, as you always call them. That is exactly why the population in Austria is so uncertain and does not take any more away from what you are giving of yourself. This is where the colleague's head turns out and partialises that we have the highest tax rate. We already have almost 44 percent tax rate, he mentioned here himself. And then he says we have to get down to less than 40 percent. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is a dangerous threat! So far, every Finance Minister of the ÖVP has – and since 2002 ÖVP has been setting up the Finance Ministers: Karl-Heinz Grasser, Molterer, Pröll, Fekter – said we have to get under 40 percent. But each time the tax rate has increased at the budget of next year! [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] Then you'll say we can't make new debts. [[Abg. Krainer: But that's not true!]] The budget of next year has expenditure of €75 billion and revenue of €68.7 billion, i.e. a new debt of €6.3 billion. And since you want to make the population aware that you are such a good federal government that has everything under control, has dealt with the crisis sensationally and mastered it?- Oh, my God! – You know, the crisis in Austria has only been mastered so well for the reason because the small and medium-sized enterprises, even the economy in Austria and the hard-working employees despite this government, despite these savings and tax packages of this government, have managed to master this crisis relatively well through innovations, through rapid adaptability. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] This is a high figure for the companies and also for the employees who have hit the sleeves in order to cope with this crisis – but not this government! It is worth noting twice as much that the crisis has been so mastered by looking at the tax packages of these ÖVP finance ministers in recent years: 50 billion € within the last two years with two load packs, with which you burden the Austrians. Then another word for the Secretary of State, who has already agreed. He said that the banks are indebted to everything. But now I'm asking you something: Who makes the laws? The laws do not make the financial market, not the banks, the laws still make politics in the individual states. Why are you unable to finally get hold of the financial market? They can do and leave what they want – you shoot money at billions, where no one knows each other, so many zeros already have your numbers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing Mr Schieder also said: The budget shows the manuscript of both parties, SPÖ and ÖVP. Significantly, he also said: They agreed on tax increases of €3.5 billion. To congratulations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6086	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6136	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Themessl, “They agreed,” yes, but they also agreed that they had reduced taxes by over 3 billion in 2009. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: On the matter, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's it!]] – If I go into someone who spoke before me, it will probably be possible. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Head.]] The question is always asked: Where is the regulation of financial markets? This has now been asked again. I tell you, there is not a step in which the financial markets have been regulated and regulated, but there have been very, very many steps. And today, especially at the moment, we are debating another step, namely the regulation of the so-called OTC trade. It is about the fact that part of the trade or most of the trade does not happen via exchanges and regulated marketplaces, does not happen transparently and we do not know how high the volume is, what contracts there are, et cetera. And one of the steps we are taking today is that we are adopting regulations for this area that has not yet been established. That is, it is not the financial market reform, but it is one of 25, 30 steps or 25 or 30. Step by step of financial market reform, which we decide and debate in the House today. I think this is a good and right step for us to take today. If you say that there is nothing going on in the regulation of financial markets, then I must tell you that a lot has already happened. I looked at the reform programme presented by SPÖ 2009 and what has already happened there. We said at the time: We need a single European financial supervision and banking supervision. And there have already been two steps in this direction. The first step was a collective supervisory body of the national supervisory authorities without any rights of entry, i.e. a kind of discussion body. The second step was the establishment of EBA, the European Banking Supervisory Authority. And the third step is the one we are currently taking, the so-called SSM – European Bankenunion or European Financial Market Supervision – where the institutions are directly supervised. You can see that there have been very, very many steps here. Another step was, for example: When the FPÖ was in the government, it decided: If managers get stock options, they don't have to pay tax for it. This has been decided by the FPÖ. When the SPÖ came to the government, we abolished it. We said: If managers get share options, they should pay taxes for them like everyone else. This has also been an important step. In order to recognize this, you may sometimes need to read the laws we debate here. The fact that you did not obviously do so is that the speakers have hardly lost a word on it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I should also like to address a number of points of debate before me. Mr Themessl spoke here about the pensions and meant that they would be increased so little and how bad that would be. He apparently forgot that the liberals were in the government for seven years. Let's see what happened. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why don't you talk about it?]] For seven years pensions have been continuously increased below the inflation rate. Every year that the FPÖ was in the government, the increase was below the inflation rate! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Talk about the Federal Treasure Law! Don't you have anything to say about that?]] Since then, the SPÖ has been in the government: every year above the inflation rate. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: On the matter!]] We have said that this year the increase is unique, and next year, on average, it will increase below the inflation rate. The small ones are very likely to be compensated for the inflation rate, the large ones should get less for it. This is social-democratic policy – and not like you who have raised pensions de facto under the inflation rate every year! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] You should not forget what kind of policy you have done! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The question was asked here: Where is the Social Democratic manuscript in this budget? The Secretary of State has rightly said that we are in a coalition government, there are always the manuscripts of both parties inside. But I can tell you: You know very well that an essential focus of the Social Democrats is always on the question of unemployment and the labour market. And what do we see? Austria has the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. – This is a social democratic manuscript, and we are proud of it. And if you ask, Where is the SPÖ on the question of justice in taxation?, then this is also relatively simple: From the cake that is baked in Austria and is distributed again, from income, 60 percent of those who provide a benefit for their income, the service providers who go to work for their income. And about 40 percent are incomes of capital and assets, i.e. non-profit incomes. And now we're looking at who's paying the bill: Those who work for their income, pay by our taxes and taxes 90 percent of the bill, but get only 60 percent of the cake. The capital and wealth income earners get 40 percent of the cake, but pay only 10 percent of the invoice. That's unfair! And that's where we say: One pay too little – and the other pay too much. What did the Federal Government do? The Federal Government has reduced the taxes and charges of those who go to work by over €3 billion in recent years, while at the same time increasing by over 3 billion for those who have capital and wealth income. That's good, that brings more justice, but it's not yet reached the end of the way. It is still true that those who work for their incomes, who provide the services, pay too high taxes – yes, we want to reduce them – and those who have wealth and capital pay too little tax. In this respect, social democracy will continue to take this path, with the ÖVP in the government, but also with other parties, that we will be able to achieve a balanced burden here and remove the wrong situation that we have today. And this is also a social democratic manuscript. And you can read these at any time in the budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6284	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6305	Mr President. High house! Mrs Bundesminister, I think you're in Your budget speech rightly referred to the international dimension, it is the central first chapter. I find this very beneficial, because it also points out that we are not alone on the road and can simply shape the world in front of us; what does not free us from carefully considering, looking at it and also accessing where we can really do something. However, the fact and fact is that international interrelationships in economic and financial life are increasingly interconnected here in recent years, at least in the European continent. I actually wanted to mention this positively, because it was not always the case with all the budget speeches. We have already experienced quite other euphorics who have explained to us that a zero deficit will come out with this and that – and then what really came out, we know now. That's why, I think, this is a very good start. Yes, Austria is relatively good in comparison; there is no reason at all to deny it or not to recognise it in some way, but it is still so that we have to consider how we have to shape the – a much-strapped word, but all the more correctly, if you actually do – future, also economically and financially, and this is about the means of the state, the budget. The vocabulary is of course relatively consumed. We will also be more committed to the need for a careful, responsible handling of the taxpayers' money. It's not always given. It is also hard to see when you look at all the events and the follow-up of the last few years that have been done together or there, but also more often only because of the pressure of individual political groups. But a careful handling of taxpayers' money is, I believe, a very important maxim, if you want to do so, a main principle. And the principles of green budgetary policy will certainly continue to be deepened in the direction of saving and, where there is waste. So, first of all, save meaningfully to be able to invest in the second sustainable. And the third point – something that falls under the table regularly with you and is only celebrated more or less successfully as a party day ritual – is: to control fairly, to relocate in the sense of social and environmental sustainability. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With these three ceilings a lot can already be started by bringing them down from the sky of the slogans to the earth and once actively starting. However, I can address the international comparison and establish a few links with Austria. Mrs Tamandl has not been able to allow us to measure the opposition there or, let us say, challenge it; so we feel challenged. She said something about the financial transaction tax – you, Mrs. Federal Minister, yes, very central, right, as I mean – but also about this so-called Swiss agreement. Now on the financial transaction tax. Yes, it is true, Austria has been a pioneer here in a certain way, even with a decision here in the house, and that goes back very far, there is nothing to say at all. Whether only the Federal Chancellors are the ones that bring something forward, I don't know. That was under the black and blue majority here at the time. They have also organized a corresponding government. After all, Parliament has taken a decision – we want to acknowledge it. The Federal Chancellor Faymann also subsequently represented this at least rhetorically always very outstanding. That's clear. But in truth, something else comes up: Who and, above all, how do you shape the fact that at the crucial moment – and this is not so easy if we look at the European context now – this is really taken into consideration and implemented? Mrs. Federal Minister, we have not yet exchanged here, but I do not agree to acknowledge that, in a historically more or less unique situation for Austria, you have acted very well in the concerns we have decided here a long time ago – and also the officials in the department. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes, right!]] We're only on the half-way, so it's not, but how it was done I think it's really good. Of course, it is true that Germany and France are being looked at internationally in the European concert. In fact, it was so that Austria played a driving and decisive role, but beyond the confessions and speeches, because one already sees – addressed to the two other opposition parties – what matters when one tries to put pressure on such a historical situation, and in that case it was a common pressure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Josef Auer.]] They have been able to say crediblely in Berlin, in Paris – after the change, it was probably easier, even if perhaps he did not like it so well, the new President in France – and also in Brussels – that it would need to make progress for Austria, as we have formulated it, towards the introduction of this tax, otherwise the ratification, in fact the EU Treaty, the Lisbon Treaty, is at risk – which, however, was the prerequisite, especially for Germany, that the ESM could enter into force at all, this so-called rescue shield, which I would rather call a liability shield. This should have been said here for the record how the historical processes were. In this respect, this is a common success, but you were of course responsible for the Austrian Federal Government on the road. We also regularly exchanged, and it was understandable how you negotiated with the other Heads of Government. As a result, it was not at all certain, after this move was finally successful, which was hacked out between Berlin and Vienna, that you are now going here and saying that the old financial transaction tax is dead, with the British, who are always blocking everything, we need a new way. This has been done, succeeded, the first barriers have been removed. But we're still only on half the line. It is also positive, however, that now – I had not expected to do so – 11 countries are already in the joint cooperation in September, at the beginning of October. I think there can go a little further. Deadline is certainly at the latest the turn of the year, so that you can really realize it in 2014. There will still be enough traps on the track, because the question is still what kind of tax this is going to be, that is not 100% certain. On the basis of this Commission proposal, it is seen that certain EU institutions have something good, like the Commission, at least in place, which has made a very useful proposal. We should not be too different from that, since otherwise we will meet exactly those sectors that we do not want to meet. So we should do just as it is proposed to get the financial derivatives as far as possible and to enforce them accordingly on the basis of these 11 countries. It is likely that it will gradually become even more so. This is a bit very, very encouraging. Otherwise, it is with the Swiss agreement. In my opinion, I believe that this point can be used for a completely different reason, because the European Union has, in itself, a good thing, but not only succeeds, to start negotiations with Switzerland and Liechtenstein in order to finally enter into a data exchange in order to combat the international and large-scale – we are not talking about small fish – tax fraud. It is still true that Luxembourg and Austria are one of the blockers. Commissioner Šemeta has publicly complained that not even the start of negotiations will be granted by the Republic of Austria, for that is also subject to the principle of unanimity. With this procedure – at least in the medium term, if not in the short term, because the pressure on Switzerland is rising all around and it is not to be seen that we are not doing this very slowly, so to speak, that the ghost is being stopped, that in Switzerland at least €70, more than €100 billion in non-taxed Greek money, by Greek billionaires and millionaires. The European population will not be able to explain to the next and the next – although I am – liability shield if at the same time the issue of property and tax evasion is not finally clarified. Austria should make a contribution and no longer stand in the way! That's a call. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] It is unbearable that there have certainly been tens of billions of taxes withdrawn there, which are all the more secure in Switzerland, perhaps also there or there in Austria – is this the reason for the resistance?; but this is not tolerable! – be bunked while in Greece there are conditions, due to relatively false therapies, which are ordered there to the patient, who is also self-indebted but of course sick. Nevertheless, it is right to do something because it concerns the whole of the European Union and the euro area, and to do so accordingly. First of all, we need reasonable measures and, secondly, fair measures for the market economy. This is, thirdly, necessary because otherwise the people will refuse to follow. If you don't see that, then you'll damage exactly the efforts you at least pretend to want to follow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why it is so important that we finally take clearer steps in the international and European context, because otherwise the time runs out, in every respect. It will also be the question of how we are now dealing with this whole banking issue in the European context. We'll come to Austria soon. I have been following with shudders, as in the end, although the Treaty on the European Rescue Screen was not at all attacked, hundreds of interpretations have already been inspired about – just when we voted here, on the weekend before – how to help the banks and the devil knows who was there and there out of the Rescue screen. It can be good, but it doesn't have to be good, it can go totally wrong. You could run the wrong ones again. On the other hand, we will act massively, we will fight and ensure that the resources available here – essentially, they are liability – are used properly. I am now reading and hearing from the IMF conference in Japan again that – which was to be feared anyway – until 2013 does not go out with the so-called banking union, but needs until 2014 – and who knows what is going on again – in order to finally intervene. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] I'm talking about a few columns that are important here: Banking supervision, banking insolvency law, that banks can also be ordered in the pleite. Why is that so important? – So that the owners of the banks do not always cash long before, and when it comes to it, they are gone. The creditors prior to a lot of interest, by deposits or other charges, and when it comes to it, they are gone. And who remains? – European taxpayers and European taxpayers. That is not going on, and that is why we will look very closely at it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But we have no reason anyway to show big on the Spanish banking landscape or on Cyprus, because that will be the closest to them. By the way, I believe that Cyprus should only get one aid if we organize it, that the financial centre will finally be cleaned there and that the billions will not be deducted from the continent there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Moser and Dr. Matznetter.]] But to the Austrian banks: That, Mrs. Minister, was already very exciting that in your entire speech – 30 pages text – you mention the bank abusers only at one point relatively far back, where it was about self- praise for the Ministry of Finance – at this point it was completely inappropriate; before we praised you – namely, how great the banking crisis is not managed by the Ministry of Finance. I'm allowed To draw your attention to this and invite you to the next Committee of the Court of Auditors – an appointment is already set –: Destructing – the actions around the municipal credit and also about the Hypo Alpe-Adria! Destruction! Not only all the sins committed there, that is one thing, the question is still how the state is dealing with it. By the way, of course, it was a consequence of this inadequate supervision and deregulation, and in Carinthia there was a series of frauds in particular, where political responsibilities were also raised. [[Call:Genau]] But the Court of Auditors reports clearly show that the decision-makers – so you in the government – have misimplemented it, despite a very well formulated bank package. It is not necessary to hide from this, but the bank package did not require the Minister Pröll at the time to proceed so patchedly, certainly not! It has not been prescribed that we recapitalise the banks, with no conditions. The Court of Auditors criticises this very thing: We've made a bad law, the executive has misimplemented, and what's the result now? – That billions and billions had to be shot. They're perdu! The ESM Rescue Screen is against this, because we are coming to 6 billion for the Austrian banks alone. They're gone! - Congratulations. And perhaps it could have been different, but the Court of Auditors is of this opinion. We will discuss this in detail. I say one thing to you because you are more or less confident about ÖVP and SPÖ: This Committee of the Regions is certainly a public committee. It can't be that we're negotiating this in secret. There is the possibility that we will decide publicly, and we will do the same. The taxpayers have a right to learn how this happened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have thus set out an example of how careful it would be to deal with taxpayers' money. For the future: In order not to repeat all of this, we need a legal situation that ensures that, at the end of the day, taxpayers are protected and the owners and creditors who have not deserved too little are put into duty. That's the job. This Parliament has instructed you from the Federal Government to present the key points in autumn, so now, that we can decide next year. We did not allow any delay here, and we will continue to pursue this publicly. That would be to make a clear contribution to a careful handling of taxpayers' money, because this dimension is more or less striking to all the other figures that you have philosophyd here today. But we'll have to meet this thing with the banks, otherwise this will continue to fly us around the ears. That will be the task, and we ask you to do so. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: not around the banks! It's not the banks!]] – Don’t call in as a bank representative, it won’t be good at all! I'm gonna stop anyway, but that's not good for you. However, we will still ensure transparency.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6464	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6485	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! It's remarkable. I am now, I believe, the tenth speaker, and with regard to all taxes, I am now only the third person who speaks to the law that actually stands for debate. The main topics which my previous speakers have worked on are planned for tomorrow at the first reading of the budget. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] But this is obviously one of the mysteries of our parliamentaryism. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: in the Presidential!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] In doing so, the opposite law is a very essential law, because trade – there are two laws, admitted – is finally beginning to regulate trade with those derivatives that have been used as arsons and arsons in the financial crisis and which have been co-responsible for the financial crisis. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Two!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] This is a necessary step in the right direction, because 95 percent of those derivatives that are traded today serve purely speculative purposes. I personally would rather have taken a much larger step and would like to take a bigger step in the future, namely those products which serve exclusively for speculation and exclusively to make a certain, relatively small group of people rich and richer, but which, in the last consequence of the Community, would have to ban the risk at all. Products that do not serve the real economy, which are not linked to a basic business, are to be prohibited. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Kuzdas.]] We cannot go that far yet, but I hope that this step we are taking today is at least a great step in the right direction. One thing I would also like to make clear at this point, because a few previous speakers have said again like a mantra, which is nourished either out of ignorance or against better knowledge: It is not the support of the Austrian banks that has caused the debt of the state, as we now have it. On the contrary, at the height of the 2008 crisis, we agreed on a smart, fast and effective bank support package at the time – and I remember that. This has served to secure savings and to continue to provide sufficient loans to the economy and to avoid a credit bottle. This has made a significant contribution to our having better economic growth in the crisis than others. What accounts for this debt? – This is due to the fact that since the 1970s we have lived constantly over our conditions, since I do not take anyone out, there is a common political responsibility from the past. [[Interim calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: you can believe for yourself!]] We have never put the right measures on the side of the effort, or at least only slow and only half-hearted, namely to tackle the structural cost drivers with consistent reforms, such as the pension system, the health care system, the administrative structures, the ÖBB, but also the promotions, but we have gone very wrong, from my point of view, towards a high-tax country. [[Complaints and bravails of the Agg. Ing. Hofer.]] We have an extreme tax burden in Austria today, and therefore I do not understand the SPÖ at all, except that it wants to be a bit populist and to serve envy and disfavor when it is constantly talking about rich taxes and their demand. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrator.]] If we look at the top rates of income tax today, we already have a wealth tax. Unlike Germany, where the maximum tax rate is €250 000 and is 43 percent, it already uses €60 000 in Austria and is 50 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The 10 percent of the maximum taxpayers earn 50 percent of the tax revenue. In other words, we have a tax which is not just a tax on the rich, but a tax which is an undue burden on the service providers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am grateful to the Minister for Finance that, with the support of the Government, you are only doing budgetary adjustment with a heavy weight on the expenditure side, so that we can again provide impetus for innovation, for growth and for jobs in the future. That's necessary, that's right, I'm going to support it. The objective must be that we gain room for real substantial expenditure. The funds are the debt brake, the budget path, the ones that Mrs Financier has presented today. We will implement this consistently, and I am glad that we are now creating this turnaround in budget consolidation.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6612	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6633	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Ikrath has just clearly shown us the putting on and off of the neck. Whatever that is, I wish you well that this is going to happen again! I can also agree with you on this story with the derivatives, with the EU regulation that we are implementing, which we also agree with, because it is correct, but which is only a first step. Thank God for seeing it there as the first step, because it simply creates some transparency, but that is, of course, far too little. What we simply lack on this issue is that a major financial market reform at European level is finally taking place. For this, Mrs Finanzminister, this federal government would have voted or composed itself, namely to finally implement this major financial market reform in the sense of the citizens of Europe – with one, and we can only say it again and again, clear separation system between the speculation banks and the real banks, I say now, that between the roulette and casino banks and the actual investor banks. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We would also have liked to see more incisive measures against this derivative trade, up to bans. We have also noted this in the Committee: there should also be bans – for example, bans on banks' own trade would be useful. All of this is missing, and I very much hope that we will continue. It is a first, right step, yes, but that is missing in this question, clearly in this law. Where I do not agree with you, Mr Ikrath, is simply this constant sentence – Klubobmann's head has already said that – with which you should finally stop: We have lived over our conditions! Actually, that's incredible. If today people – and the session is broadcast by television – are sitting in front of you in front of the TV, which may also fall below the poverty line, these one million people still lose? It is not people who have lived over the conditions, because they have been heavily burdened by this government for many years by taxes and taxes and taxes, Mr Ikrath. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] And you're telling them they've lived over the conditions?- Oh, my God! This is really incredible, and you can't leave it in such a form either. You, Mr Ikrath, have complained that the previous speakers did not comment on the Bundeschatztscheinen. – By the way, you did not comment on this first law either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] I am also telling you now why no one and above all no one from the government parties is taking a position on this. The answer is quite clear, and it also fits well with the budget speech of the Minister for Finance or it is exactly the opposite of what she always says. For what is happening here is nothing but making new debts – new debts are made! [[Abg. Bucher: Hidden debt! Hide!]] They pay with the award of federal vouchers, but the Minister of Finance is not so well aware of this. This is what we have seen in the Committee, because the Minister of Finance actually meant in the Financial Committee that she herself signed federal bonds via the website www.bundeschatz.at, which is not possible and where she had to correct herself. State Secretary Arbitrators also then informed the Financial Committee meeting that this was not at all possible. Mrs Finanzminister, perhaps you can explain to us once again how you did that, because that is bound by magic, and that does not work. In order to return to this Federal Treasure Award: They issue federal vouchers for membership contributions in the international financial institutions with a ceiling of up to €500 million, and this is not available in the Maastricht-related deficit. This is what the Secretary of State has told us on the last financial committee. That means we have nothing more than €500 million more in new debts. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the tactic of concealment that you are following here, Mrs Minister: that you are now increasingly outsourcing debt and not writing into the budget at all. This is actually the truth, and therefore we also criticise you as hiding financial debt that the actual debt is probably much higher than you tell us this here, although we have achieved a record level of debt. And then you walk from the ÖVP and the Minister of Finance and partly also the SPÖ through the area and say: No new debts, we're not making new debts! Each year debt increases, and debt is also outsourced every year. There is a new debt record every year, but the government is trying to make us know that no new debt is made. This is not an honest policy – that is not what we expect from a serious and honest financial policy. Perhaps it wasn't a Freud's promise that you said in your budget speech today, Mrs Finanzminister, that you were striving for a balanced budget by 2060. The word that has been spoken applies, yes, we have heard it very well. Of course, in the written manuscript you mean 2016, but what really is inside often comes out with speeches. You don't believe yourself that you're doing this with your policy, Mrs. Finanzminister. With this policy of debt making, tax policy, tax policy, tax and tax policy, you will not do that either, but you will only be burdening people once again. We reject that, and that is what we are finally trying to prevent. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will still have enough opportunity tomorrow to deal with the speech of the Minister for Finance. Only one foreclosure: Even if you have praised the current ach so great tax system in your speech, you have to say one thing: This is exactly the system that is currently being criticized across all the groups of companies in Austria – I do not want to say that it is being defied – which, starting from the entrepreneur, not only regrets bureaucracy in the tax system, but also, in fact, finds it, until the employee is treated unfairly because of the highest tax rate, as it is currently at work. Everyone – we know – is going to work in this country for half a year only for you, Mrs Finanzminister. And you mean, that's a fair tax system?- Oh, my God! With regard to purchasing power: If you mean it seriously with the purchasing power, then you will finally implement the system of the “Fair Tax” with tax reduction, with simplification, with reliability, with a new system that people have also earned! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You also deserved it because they contribute to the fact that you can use tax revenues at all. That would be a measure. You have said this yourself – and we have also discussed the last – again and again, and then you have withdrawn because you may have been rebuffed by your own party – we do not think it is right. A few words to the Secretary of State: That was especially to smile when he told us about the bank, this budget, and also this whole event today bears the SPÖ manuscript. Congratulations, Secretary of State! If that really is the case, you may read the chapter on the German army and military duty from today's budget speech by Mrs Finanzminister – perhaps you haven't read it. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator:... Bud-raised!]] If the word "obligation" or the statement: The professional army or the abolition of the military duty brings the budget out of the joints!, their manuscript carries, then I wish you all the best in the SPÖ with your line of military. [[Abg. Bucher: SPÖ is already out of the joints!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That's not credible, and then that's the next substance you made of party days like last Saturday's, disaster party days, and that was a debacle that you got there on Saturday. If this is your manuscript, I really wish you all the best. To conclude: Mr State Secretary, I have tried to ask you this in the committee, and you have given me on many points in the Committee - I call it very commendable - on many points, often more than the Minister of Finance ever gives, but because you have not given any information at all, I now ask the Minister of Finance, because the subject of this hypo history arises constantly. Mrs Finanzminister, you are constantly using the mortgage bank as a shift from the dwindling state budget. It should be the main reason why we are not so good and why we need to save so much – that is a complete dispassion. For if it were so, then Mrs. Schmied and her local credit would have long since been the reason for the budget to be finally out of the joints. That's where you look more closely! But one thing is already remarkable: that you have not informed the public about it so far – neither journalists nor representatives of this House in the Financial Committee – what is going on with the complaint against the nationalisation of the hypo from December 2009. That would interest us, since it is said that your lawyers are currently rightly examining a complaint against the national insanity of your predecessor, Mr. Finanzminister Pröll, because it is thought that one has been committed to an error. It was a mistake that emerged from the documents that were available at the time, and therefore one has not known the real state, the bad condition of the bank at that time – it has been darkened, it has been hidden, whatever. But you now know that there is only a three-year period for such an action, and in fact you would be responsible in the sense of the Republic of Austria for bringing this recovery action before the end of the time-limit – and that is in December of this year. Mrs Finanzminister, I would ask you to inform Parliament once again, and therefore ask you first of all: Is there an examination of such a claim for a re-nationalisation of the hypo? That is, is the Republic of Austria going against this error of your predecessor? Secondly, If so, how far are we, and will this action be brought before the end of December 2012? For if that is not the case, then there is a danger that the Bavaria will seek a return course, which is already in court, and then you will even stand there empty-handed and miss out on the popular wealth you can get from this repatriation, Mrs. Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We're looking for You really are: Let us know, speak today! I expect you to give the honourable Member of this House at last a few weeks before the end of this period of time information as to how the state of the matter of this action is against nationalization – the alleged emergency nationalization, which was obviously none but due to the inability of your predecessor and his co-deputies. [[Abg. Bucher: Silence is the answer!]] That's the truth about the Causa Hypo. Don't always take your mouth so full and do it You are no longer responsible for your own failure to do so, Mrs Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6789	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e6821	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, also on the crowd. Some will have wondered why the Lord Bucher suddenly hops around like a rumple. [[Call the BZÖ:Na hello!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: What does “Rumpel Stilzchen” mean?]] By the way, this is the clubman who always turns around and sees if he still has five Members – because the rest has already been bought away from Mr Stronach. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: That's what the right one is talking about, the SPÖ is already two away!]] The hypo fits exactly on the subject when you talk about it. With this law, we have made the restrictions for the soccer inaction particularly in the field of OTC derivatives and a proper measure by creating the central counterparties and registering the transactions. On the contrary, it cannot help if laws are violated, and that is exactly what Mr Westenthal has just mentioned: Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about re-stateization? 2009!]] Now we're talking about reality. 2004 – and everyone can understand – a falsified balance sheet was presented before the financial crisis, not the result 2008. Wait, that started a lot earlier. Mr. Kulter was there at the time. You can tell me who was the State Commissioner for the country of Carinthia who had the responsibility – that was Dr. Jörg Haider. This, by the way, is just the man who has died, whom the judge has led in his judgment in the Causa Birnbacher as the one who cannot stand here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Stop it!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Pigry is that! Shame!]] Just because someone has a traffic accident – and I am not discussing who is guilty of it here – can we not talk about the system that this party and the others have set up in the federal state? [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Shame! Shame!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You may already talk about it, but! - Where are we?- Oh, my God!]] There is no longer any point in talking about the fact that Mr Birnbacher said that a division of one-third of each was intended for the sum taken away by the Carinthian taxpayers, because the Bavarians had grown up a bank which was already a marod at that time, as you yourself argued with the threatened counterclaim. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What about the foundation?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] It's incredible. You say you're not guilty of the disaster?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. New builder: Now I know why you are no longer State Secretary!]] How would the 2012 deficit look like, Mrs. Federal Minister, without payment for the Hypo Alpe-Adria? – We would be far below 3 percent! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: At the municipal credit!]] And next year, €900 million will be added. Mrs. Glawischnig told you what you could do with this money. It runs into a system made in this federal state to finance an event culture there – or one believes to finance one – bloated, produced exclusively for an event to maintain existence – and precisely the BZÖ exists here only. [[Abg. New builder: You are embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: Donauinselfest!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Matznetter, why don't you make a ban on us? Would that be a possibility? The BZÖ is to be banned!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Make an application!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Make an application! That would be a good idea!]] Let's talk about the overall hypo: Mr Westenthaler claims that Mr Pröll should not have been governmental. The judicial activity shall take place anyway in order to open it up. I am concerned about what taxpayers have to pay for today's adventures for which your party was responsible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your wife Schmied has the municipal credit!]] Then come back again: In the case of local credit, there is no falsified balance sheet of prior to 2008; only today's payment. If you use the BAWAG [[Abg. Neubauer: signed only!]] How much did the taxpayer have to pay? – All 900 million of liability have been repaid! No cent of the BAWAG had to pay the taxpayer! [[Abg. New builder: There's a certain dog torpher!]] And how many were the hypo-Alpe-Adria this year? – €1.5 billion! How much is it next year? – 700 million € only within the next six months, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Grosz: What about the municipal credit?]] Let's come back to what happened to it. Birnbacher was enormously skilled. He said he was addressed by two leading officials of the FPK that they were going out the share agreed with Haider, a third. It was 2 million because the “Patriot Discount” was given, from 12 million to 6 million euros. - That's what he said in court! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Were you there?]] [[Abg. Neubauer: What about the 3 million for the head?]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Were you there?]] And against the two is determined. That's what we'll hear in court. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not yet a single word on the agenda! That's great!]] But the justification that you make up for what you're always saying here doesn't take place. [[Abg. Bucher: You need a political guard! They are supervised!]] Every week in the Carinthian Landtag: Payed countrymen blackmail like the school boys because they don't want to stand up to voters because they don't want to take responsibility! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Because of responsibility: “Faymann like responsibility” in front of the committee!]] That is the truth about this movement: without responsibility, always problems with the court, leaving only one system where everyone else may pay the token afterwards! I'm sorry for the taxpayers that there was even the opportunity that you could have your fingers inside the public checkouts. And I hope that we will also prevent the controls, if that happens where, that next time we can no longer send up naughty honorary notes with €12 million under the eyes of the State Commissioner. Play You don't stand up here as a moral master! [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: You are the worst moralist!]] For the first time, we have a budget with which we do not reach the 3 percent of the Maastricht criteria, and this is what those in charge of the opposition of BZÖ and FPK owe. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The party day must hurt! 83 percent for Faymann! To bravo!]] Stand for this responsibility! Finally, stand by the voters! You could have at least so much propensity and so much courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e7285	Mr Petzner spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e7310	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter! If you're talking big, you need to get in touch. In his speech, the colleague Matznetter, among other things, asserted – and in a connection with former head of state Jörg Haider – that the hypo balance had been faked in 2004. I'm correcting: That's completely wrong. The 2004 balance sheet was approved by the competent supervisory bodies and was also positively tested by the audit firms that examined it – in concrete terms that was the audit firm Deloitte. That is, this claim that the balance sheet is wrong is incorrect. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, Matznetter! - He has no idea!]] Second correction: It is said here again and again that there are 20 billion in liability. – That too is wrong! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: 23 billion!]] Rather, it is true that these are outlaws, in which the Republic of Austria would not have been held liable, but first of all the majority owners, the Bavarian Landesbank, in further succession of the owners of the Bavarian Landesbank, namely the Free State of Bavaria, and only then would the Republic of Austria be liable for the rest. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Mr Petzner, 23 billion!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: But this is already more than an actual correction!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e7399	Mr Matznetter spoke in response to the actual correction. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President, there is no response!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Only a personal response if he himself is a fool!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... Insanity comment separately from Deputies Westenthaler!]] I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e7479	Mr President. In his actual correction, Mr Petzner claimed that the 2004 annual accounts were not falsified. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is illegal!]] I'm actually correcting this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, you can't!]] No, it's easy to see. [[Further calls from MEPs Scheibner, Petzner and Ing. Westenthaler: You can't do that]] Culterer was condemned for making a balance sheet falsification, so that this claim proved to be wrong, Mr Petzner. [[Call at BZÖ: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President, this is illegal!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e7584	Mr President, I should like to thank I may inform you that the reply according to § 58 para. It is possible to make an actual correction by a Member if he was personally involved in the presentation of the corrected facts and he has to confine himself to the presentation of the facts in the statement of words. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it! He wasn't! He must be personally involved!]] I think that has been done by Mr Matznetter. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's wrong!]] [[Call to the BZÖ:The President has no idea of the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have no idea of the Rules of Procedure at all, Mr President.]] Mr Scheibner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e7663	Mr President. I am very surprised by this interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, because it has been assumed that personal response to an actual correction is only permitted in exceptional cases, when the person concerned has been personally addressed – and not only has been mentioned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it! Addressed!]] Of course, he is mentioned, because if you make an actual correction to a speech by Mr Matznetter, you have to hold on to it. But this is not meant by the personal response as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I am looking for the President to make an authentic interpretation here, because what you have now approved would be a prejudice for the future today. [[Abg. Bucher: That's it!]] Then, at any time, a personal response to an actual correction is possible. We take note of this, only: In any case, it would be a completely different interpretation than what I have heard here in the last 22 years.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e7720	My perception, Mr Scheibner, is that Mr Matznetter was not only mentioned in a casual way, but was very direct and personal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The President has no idea of the Rules of Procedure!]] Yes, Mr President, I also have the Stenographical Protocol come and I would like to comply with the wish for a principle discussion. I have acted according to best knowledge and conscience and therefore continue to deal with the agenda. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you also step back?]] Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you have done wrong, will you resign, Mr President?]] I hope that if you do, you will never make a mistake, Mr. Cot. But that wasn't one. Mr Podgorschek is now on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e7801	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I'll be back to the agenda. I can observe one behind me, which has a certain symbolism: Finally, the fact that the Federal Minister is sitting here and her State Secretary is as far away as possible shows the state of this coalition. My Dear Ones Watch the TV screens and the gallery! What we have experienced today with the budget speech of Mrs. Federal Minister was for me a premiere presentation, namely a premiere presentation of the program “Aunt Maria’s fairytale hour”. It will then decide whether this show is going in series – that is what the audience or voters and voters decide next year. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: It is about a legislative debate that we are discussing here now!]] – That was my introduction, Mr. Cot. Now on item 1 concerning the Federal Treasure Act. One thing is certainly justified, namely, that after 10 years in the text of the law one changes the amount of schilling, because it is still “5 billion schilling” in the law. For the spectators to remember: Schilling was this so-called Alpine dollar, known for its hardness. [[Call the FPÖ:A real money!]] We now have the euro. On point 2, in order to reduce the externally traded derivatives, I can only say one thing: It is certainly an improvement and we also find our approval. But, of course, we have a great danger that the budget will carry and that will come to us, and the economic experts both from WIFI and IHS, who are finally paid by the government, already point to the dangers that the banks will face on the budget. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: WIFO, not WIFI!]] Not for nothing, we now have a Court of Auditors' criticism of the course of the rescue process Some banks, yes, among other things I have said “some”. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Some banks!]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Not: The banks!]] That Bank and – Mostly, colleague Ikrath. Among other things, we also have the criticism of the Court of Auditors of the municipal credit, which is the case in connection with the local credit, and I can only mention one small thing: So far, the municipal credit has cost us three times what the Hypo Alpe-Adria has cost us. But that doesn't mean that we're not even for complete reconnaissance at the Hypo Alpe-Adria – before there come back some calls from the SPÖ corner. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the responsibility of Federal Minister Schmied must also be clarified here. What we demand, and that is still with emphasis, is a separation of the banking system – which the candidate of the SPD in Germany, Peer Steinbrück, demands in the meantime – in investment banks, where the speculators should then have speculated, they can be held responsible, and in the so-called commercial banks. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Vickers or Liikanen?]] There's nothing to do if we deposit the deposit or take over the liability. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Vickers or Liikanen?]] But this has to be done primarily from our point of view, because then we will no longer have these problems in the future, and then at one time it does not say “too big to fail” or that some banks are “system-relevant”. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Which model?]] We therefore also need a banking bankruptcy system. And here you are in arrears, Mrs Federal Minister, because this House has long called for this, and again and again we are bringing in the corresponding motions for resolutions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What distinguishes Austria, but not only Austria, but the EU as a whole, is that we have two different economic systems: On the one hand, we have an economic system for the real economy – that is, small businesses and businesses are exposed to the free market economy. The banks, on the other hand, who live in a swamp of the plan economy, because the bankers can do what they want, they are saved and saved again and again. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's a nonsense too!]] [[Abg. May. Ikrath: is there to finance small businesses!]] Didn't you understand me? – I don’t think you want to understand me at all. No, because you're the lobbyist of the banks and this system. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Ha, ha!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we are currently experiencing is nothing but that the cock is racing with the dog – that the banks determine politics and not politics the banks. We must return to the primacy of politics and need independence from the financial markets.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8012	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Windy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8034	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Financiary Minister! Only because the accusation has been made before that the government parties would not deal with the Bundeschatzscheinsetz: In my remarks, I would like to expressly refer to this law, to this change. Well, you know that the Bundeschatzscheinsetz (Bundeschatzscheinsetz) has been the upper limit for the federal treasures issued and not yet redeemed from 1991 with 5 billion schilling. This limit should now be increased to €500 million. This will make it easier to meet the financial obligations towards the IFIs, the international financial institutions, by means of the method of depositing federal securities. One can now argue about it or not, but the award of federal vouchers serves to ensure, and this therefore does not justify financial debt. But what interests me more or what I do is the question of why. Why has this step become necessary at all? – Behind that is simply the increased financial needs of the international financial institutions with their funds, all of which have the objective of reconstruction and development. And we believe that this contribution is simply an essential, important contribution to development cooperation with the poorest countries in the world, that we are also drawing closer to the Millennium Development Goals with this contribution. Moreover, this contribution can also be expected from Austria's development aid ratio. I believe that it is not only a moral issue that we support here, but also a strong, self-interesting economic perspective, which is the argument that we are helping these less-favoured regions, where we are also Chan. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. Thus, we invest not only for the countries that need to be helped, but also for us, for our children, for our future – and there for the social upturn. Overall, it can be said that the history of the Federal Treasures is a very successful one. In 2002, for example, an e-government initiative was launched, allowing “normal” citizens, private customers to buy federal treasure vouchers practically at the push of a button. The main motive of that time is even more pronounced today, namely the security of these federal vouchers, the security with the triple-A rating. And the “father’s State” has this trump in hand, especially toward those investors who are safe from yield. It is an extremely flexible system: From a month up to 10 years you can install here. There is a guaranteed fixed rate. You can get out early. The quantification starts at 100 € and is open upwards. And there are no advance interest rates resulting from an early redemption – that is, a very amical arrangement in case you need the money earlier. The Federal Finance Agency is dealing with the whole system very, very transparently, and the trust of people in this product is simply given. And it is only from this point of view that this proposal for a law is acceptable from our point of view. But I also want to give you a very personal impression of a matter that you can only have if you are a practicing farmer: Every year – I would like to tell you that – in high summer I harvested a hundredth of a hectare of my wheat. And only those who have done this activity can understand how this manual work works in developing countries, where they are working under extreme effort, physical effort, heat, dust and dirt. Only those who have done so can understand what technical progress in agriculture means for us. And people there too deserved this way, this progress. – Although it is absurd that due to the surplus and surplus that comes out, we are now pouring a third of our food into the trash, and at the same time it is said that the food is so expensive. – But I just cut off barley there – by the way, for the harvest thank you, we need it for the decoration – and that is why I can understand it very well. Finally, I can only say: Even if it did not exist under § 65 of the Federal Budget Act, I can simply tell you for reasons of co-humanity: Yes, we would agree. People living there in poverty have deserved our help absolutely.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8098	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8119	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter, I have listened very carefully to your budget speech and I do not want to leave some passages in your budget speech unanswered. At the very beginning, you said that Austria has not lost jobs. – Then how do you explain, Mrs. Federal Minister, the rise in the unemployment rate in Austria? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: 40,000 more!]] How do you explain that this year in Austria we have 50,000 unemployed more than before the crisis? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: But also more employment!]] By the way, we also have more youth unemployment in Austria than before the crisis. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Mr. Colleague, what does this have to do with the Federal Treasures?]] – That is what we are going to talk about, Mr Ikrath. Although Austria is well aware of the data on the labour market internationally, Mrs Minister, it should and must not be mistaken that the unemployment rate in Austria is also at a record level in relation to young people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Second point: The budget deficit could be significantly lower in 2012 and 2013. In 2012, it would not have to be 3.1 percent of GDP, but it could be around 2.5 percent of GDP, because the economy of this year has been significantly better, because the interest rate has been significantly lower and less money has had to be spent on pensions. In 2013 the economic situation will certainly be a little worse, but in Austria we would have had a significantly better starting position from 2012. But the budget deficit will also be 2.3 percent higher in 2013 than planned under the Federal Financial Framework. And why is that so, Mrs. Federal Minister? – You have not received any comments in your budget speech at all! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It's stupid, it's the banks? – No, it is in this context the Austrian problem banks, first and foremost the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but also the municipal credit AG. If you write in your budget report, Mrs. Minister, that in 2012 all the necessary funds will be made available to the Hypo Alpe-Adria for capital increase, I ask you: Then why do you not tell us how much has to be made available from budget resources this year?- Oh, my God! Is it really the €1.5 billion that financial market supervision has required by notice – or is it less? In fact, 500 million € will be imported; the rest will be made over liabilities. I believe that this liability will not be accepted by financial market supervision, nor by EUROSTAT, nor by the European Commission. It is therefore expected that this liability of € 1 billion will also be very likely, i.e. the payment for the Hypo Alpe-Adria – and that the taxpayers will be taxed. To Hypo Alpe-Adria: Who was responsible for this miscarriage? After once the “System Carinthia”, I would say, on the other hand, but also the financial market supervision, in whose eyes all this has happened. [[Abg. Jury: Local credit! Volksbank!]] And the great “renewer” of financial market supervision had a name: Karl-Heinz Grasser. We have seen where this has led; by the way, we have also seen the municipal credit company. Let's go to 2013: More recently, funds will become due for the banks. At the “Bad Bank” of municipal credit AG, it will be €250 million, in which Hypo Alpe-Adria significantly more, namely € 700 million for a capital increase, modestly decreed by financial market supervision. A further €200 million is needed for guarantees, and finally the interest will be due for the receipt of the payment, which has already entered the budget deficit and debt in 2011. All in all, about €5 billion will be spent on these two banks alone from the budget. In addition, further bank assistance is needed, so that in total, net, Mrs Finanzminister – because of liability fees and dividends already against them – about €6 billion at the expense of taxpayers! But you did not mention this in your budget speech, Mrs Finanzminister, with a word. You simply don't have a plan to deal with these national banks in the future. But what you do very well, and do again and again: They allow things to happen – and wait for taxpayers to pay what is necessary for the banks. What would be necessary, which would be urgently necessary in order to get out of this misery in the future, is a bank insolvency law, an orderly insolvency procedure for banks, so that at last owners and creditors also get the duty – and not only the taxpayers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you, Mrs Finanzminister, continue to claim in your budget speech that the tax agreement between Switzerland and Austria will create more right of performance – you say right of performance and tax justice now – this is quite a pity to those people who supply their wage taxes and other taxes to the financial office on a monthly basis! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Tax Justice!]] What you support, Mrs Federal Minister, is tax relief in millions! They thus become the patron saint of tax evasions in millions – and that is a condition that I think is unbearable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, in connection with the European Union's interest rate directive, you do not accept the obligation to provide information together with Luxembourg in order to put an end to this madness at European level, because this is a problem that can only be solved in European terms. It can't be that we're now pretending we don't have tax havens in Austria that it's supposed to close as if we don't have a problem in Austria with regard to tax justice and equal opportunities! When we look at our tax system, we see: In Austria, we are far from having a performance-based tax system, we are far from having equal opportunities. A performance-based tax system, one that also offers equal opportunities, must include an inheritance and gift tax – we know that since the latest study on the distribution of assets by the Austrian National Bank. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it must also be concluded, Mrs Finanzminister, with the tax relief. That would, as it were, be a system that creates more justice. Since you, Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, and your party are always trying to make this asset tax study, prepared by the Austrian National Bank, a word on it: [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is a survey, not a study!]] These are international standards, Mrs Minister, and this study was initiated by the European Central Bank due to the uneven distribution of assets worldwide, because the European Central Bank is concerned about financial stability. Finally, the uneven distribution of wealth and income was one of the three root causes of the financial crisis. In addition, it was the financial market deregulation; of course, further steps are needed. Although some small steps are taken in the context of these legislations in the framework of the OTC, it is better to say: Steps – Mr Krainer is not here at the moment – I still believe that the big steps are missing. Europe has managed to close everything at the fiscal level; I'm saying, "Austerity policy." By the way: From Tokyo, we heard that the International Monetary Fund has now made a paradigm change to this austerity policy, when it says that new calculations of multipliers are damaging this austerity policy, which will not result in budget deficits and debt falling. No, the opposite will be the case! [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] You should take this to heart, the EU should take this to heart – and not always look at how to tighten and tighten the belt in fiscal policy, but at the same time forget to shape the framework conditions for the financial markets in such a way that the banks will become what they once have been: Institutions that are there to carry out a useful function. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Banks would have the task of providing the real economy with loans for investment; no more and no less. Summary: It is high time that the financial markets no longer have primacy about politics, but that politics finally takes over primacy over the financial markets again! Then Austria and Europe have another chance to get out of this financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8311	The next speaker was Mr Hechtl. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8333	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Appreciate High House! It already belongs to tradition when, after a budget speech, a agenda item follows, which is not about the budget debate, but in which something else is brought in, that the real concerns are pushed into the background. I think that alone the fact that around 95 percent of OTC derivatives are acting anonymously shows the importance of this law. Also, the federal vouchers, which we now decide to adapt to the designation, because, as has already been said, the amounts were still given in Schilling in the old law of 1991, and an increase in the volume, contribute to lubrication of financial resources. So far, as has already been said, the framework for federal vouchers to be issued and not yet redeemed was now €363 million for 5 billion schilling in the old currency. Now, this magnitude, and that has already been mentioned, is increased to € 500 million – but as a ceiling. On the one hand, this increases the volume of the federal vouchers by € 136 million, but on the other hand also extends the grant to all financial institutions in which Austria is a member. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Especially in today's time, where security is the essential element in the financial sector, federal securities are a secure, calculable and stable financial investment that enjoys great confidence. Of course, a product enjoys great confidence if demand is corresponding. With these Federal Treasures, demand is very high, and this in turn confirms confidence – trust not only in the Federal Treasures themselves, but also in the Republic of Austria and its policies. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the budget speech has been given, and the budget has to do with confidence, just as trust is an essential point in policy. The figures mentioned here and the procedure in the Federal Finance Act 2013 reflect the right path that we have taken after the crisis. Efforts to balance the budget in the longer term – by 2016 – represent an ambitious step, but an important step. The Social-Democratic Line has been discussed several times today, and I would like to refer once again to all the packages, labour market packages and promotions aimed at maintaining and expanding youth and employment in general where it is going. Even in my district there is an over-company training facility which has already been addressed today. I am proud of this institution and I am proud that we 50 young people have been able to give them a light view and enable them to have a training that will enable them to claim themselves later in the world of work. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Trust is an important basis, and we have confidence in our budget, which we have jointly developed and worked out. In this sense: Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8384	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8405	Mrs. Federal Minister! With the Bundeschatzscheinen you make one, namely again more debts outside the budget in the form of a hat game. Not only do you do this with the Federal Treasures, but you did so today in the budget speech and in the budget presented. We are actually experiencing the metamorphosis of a party whose clubman just a few weeks ago has titulated the social-democratic government partners as thieves; the metamorphosis of a party who sees thieves in debtors, but even in person of its Finance Minister once again increases the tax and tax rate in this country with this budget by 0.5 percent, and once again, Mr. Klubobmann's head, makes debt. [[Abg. Booker: Record! Record!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not responsible, especially at the height of an economic crisis, which is beautifully depicted here in the manner of “Alice in Wonderland”. Mrs. Federal Minister! I've looked through your chosen office to your budget while you've spoken. Already on the first page you say, write: “We have not lost jobs in Austria, quite the contrary.” We are now again seeing reports, which of course indicate a dramatic increase in unemployment and, of course, a dramatic increase in unemployment, especially in the field of youth employment. On page 2 of your idea of your future budget you write, say: “We were also able to obtain the purchasing power of the people.” Please ask, Mrs. Federal Minister, those people who, with the change from schilling to the euro, now double the double – the double! – must pay for the products of daily life. By the way, however, wages and wages in this country did not double at the same time. So if you talk on your page 2 of the fact that the purchasing power of the people could be preserved, then it feels very many citizens – perhaps those sitting in front of the television screens today – as a smooth cock and insult. You are ashamed of people when you write and proclaim something here that does not correspond to reality. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You write on page 2: ‘In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises have proved to be particularly stable.’ Are these small and medium-sized enterprises that burden you in this country with a tax and tax rate of well over 43 percent? Do you mean these small and medium-sized enterprises? Do you think that these small and medium-sized enterprises, which no longer remain airless to breathe, are no longer seeing the innovative power you are preaching here, because they can no longer operate properly because of the tax jungle and the tax jungle in that country? Are these small and medium-sized enterprises you're talking about? Perhaps you understand this and give me your ear, Mrs. Federal Minister, before you study the fairy tales in iPad Grimm's fairy tales as a bond for your next budget speech – or before you go right now, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Federal Minister Mag. Dr. Fekter leaves the meeting room]] This is particularly charming to the Austrian National Council and Parliament to simply leave the debate on “your” item on the agenda! But, well, we're used to a lot of things from you and above all from the ÖVP! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As Minister Dr. Fekter, you write and read here today that there is a competitive tax model in Austria – competitive, tax model – while you were still here at the government bank less than two weeks ago, and the model of the “Fair Tax”, the “Flat Tax”, the “Flat Tax”, which Josef Bucher and the BZÖ have proposed here, has almost been a lie. Today you stand here and say that we have a competitive tax model in Austria, with all the experts in this country saying that, apart from the one section head at the Ministry of Finance Dr. Nolz, nobody in the Austrian budget knows in any form. [[Abg. Bucher: Tax law!]] Mrs. Federal Minister – wherever you may be in this House now, or also in the political Nirwana – is particularly horrifying to me that from a former anti-tax party, the Austrian People's Party, one of the largest tax parties in this country has become. I come from Graz, you know, and in Graz we have a black financial officer in the city government, Mr. Rüsch, and a black mayor, and this city now has 1.2 billion euros in debt and a further 2 billion € pension reserves. These are over €3 billion loads, ladies and gentlemen! Wherever black reigns, debt is disillusioned and in the future debt is made, and we do not want to do so at the federal level. This is why we are also missing these reform approaches which you are looking at today. Unfortunately, your budget did not bring about God, Mrs Federal Minister, wherever you may be, namely the necessary savings that could be found in a solidarity social security system. I would point to the situation today – I am not suspicious of Mr Cap, who has been losing or holding the same speech on the budget for 40 years, because I am not doing this for the third time, but I stress it for the third time once again – where we could save – where we could not increase taxes and taxes, but where we could save – when we have the list of the Austrian social security system, where we find costs of €700 094 444 each year in the administrative field, very much Mr Cap, with 13 042 employees, with 39 headquarters in Austria, 18 customer centers, 118 district offices, so that you can put your red and black officials, which you can no longer need in politics that have failed in the free economy, in the social security system. [[the speaker shows a table]] [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: Is this an application interview?]] [[Abg. Head: In case of a total turnover of how much?]] There you could save! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer.]] Not the tax and tax rate – Mrs. Federal Minister, welcome again to your short visit to the Austrian National Council – so do not increase the tax and tax rate once again, no!, save in the system, save on the social security system. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter takes place again at the government bank]] In this system there are 117 service weights that we pay for the Director-Generals and Supervisors of 21 social security companies in that country, 14 chauffeurs employed there, 13 042 full-time workers who do nothing but manage the system to death – who are not in the ambulances and are caring for the patients there, because that is the decent part of the social security system, the necessary part, but no, managing the system! – and costs for IT and IT amounting to € 102 million annually, dear Mr. Klubobmann Cap. And that's how it goes. That's where we could save! You have a partner in the BZÖ right now, when it comes to this stable – I am not saying anything now. In addition, if you wanted to miss out on this stable at last, but not on the area on which you once again presented this House a budget and gave a budget speech where you put up the tax and tax rate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haberzetl]] Let us say again: enough paid!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8555	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8576	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Treasury Act and the OTC derivatives have already been declared by my colleague Mr Podgorschek, and in addition, honourable Members will refer to it again, so I, as the budget speaker of the Freedom Party, can lose a few words on today's budget speech. [[Abg. Haberzettl: That was quite good, but...!]] Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, I have to tell you, unfortunately, you missed the subject. The topic you mentioned is: “Stabile finance through reforms.” – Well, let’s look at what this looks like! Stable finance? – This year we are making a deficit of €11.2 billion and next year we are planning €6.7 billion. The debt level – not even it is stable! – is €285 billion, including ÖBB, ASFINAG and BIG, and Mrs. Federal Minister, in 2016, he is €295 billion. So that's not stable, either, because the debt is getting higher and higher. It's been talking about a fairy tale hour today; it's already been like this in the last budget speech: Milk and honey flow here in Austria, this government is such a thing of chastity and good! – Unfortunately, debt is increasing and the deficits are increasing. Mrs. Federal Minister, people don't believe this anymore – they're not as stupid as you assume – because every day everything gets more expensive. Mr Themessl has already predicted to you how high the debt that inflation really is. We are definitely 5 percent of the daily needs of the articles. And with salary increases of 2 to 3 percent, dear friends of the union, you automatically know that you “put money down”. The same applies to savings forms. It is simply a sad game that annual expenditure is far above revenue. This means that from 2006 to 2011 the debt level of Austria increased by €55 billion, and from 2012 to 2016 an additional €22 billion will be added. Unimaginable! We are 90 and 89 percent indebtedness! They're already wondering: How do the Sweden do this with 35 percent debt and the Danes with 45 percent debt? And the Swiss are 30 percent! The reason will not be that the Euro-needs and the euro-shoes do not have to participate?- Oh, my God! I would just like to say briefly that the Swiss people are paying €20 billion less taxes. If you say “through reforms”, I admit that there are approaches to reforms, but the big reforms, the real reforms do not make you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are no reforms in the state structure, there are no reforms in the administration. This craftsmanship is a disaster and costs a lot of money. Few reforms and these are also only possible in the field of health care – we are committed to the fourth most expensive system in the OECD in terms of health costs – and not reforms in support – we are European subsidisation champions, that is known. And even with pensions, relatively little goes on, except that we cut the pensioners enormously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] They operate pension robbery, which is to be read in the savings package 2012. And yet they ask themselves: Why is that so? – Because no one dares to cut into this black and red administrative bacon by SPÖ and ÖVP, that is the reason! You don't want to go in there, it's about your own people, and you don't want to damage them in any way. But that will be necessary, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise we will certainly not do it. It is lived and spent money like ever. Money seems to play no part in the state. The worse the situation, the bigger the feasts that were celebrated. The population remains on the track. That's the ruler, I don't think. Faymann celebrates celebrations, Häupl celebrates celebrations, harvest thanks to the farmers, everything at the expense of the public, the taxpayer. Bread and games like in Rome. - We know where this led. I also have no understanding of the advertising campaign of the “inserators” Faymann and Berlakovich. It is not responsible to use the funds for such things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] To the committee of inquiry, which unfortunately God was turned away from the rulers. – The response of the population is to say: It's a piggy! [[Abg. Krainer: What I always wanted to say!]] For me, ladies and gentlemen – I do not trust to repeat the word because otherwise I get a call for an order – the hypocrisy and word of the government parties is, and this too is not responsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Despite promises by the two government parties that everything will be clarified that everything has to be put on the table, it has finally come to the conclusion of this investigation committee. [[Abg. Pendl:... Budget posts?- Oh, my God!]] The character and propriety, ladies and gentlemen, have become a flaw in this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8672	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. 5 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8694	Mr President. High house! First of all, on the two agenda items Bundeschatzscheintgesetz and EU regulation on OTC derivatives: Mr Westenthaler has already stated that the Federal Treasure Vouchers Act will also be used to drive the debt further up. As far as derivatives trading is concerned, this may be a small step in the right direction, but we want to expand the financial system in general across Europe, to know better control and to really set up barriers for speculators so that certain things can no longer happen, which have also led to the 2008 crisis – keyword: separate banking system; Keywords: Restriction of derivative trading, or even a ban on private banking, as well as at last a proper restriction of bonuses payments for bank managers, because there is hardly anyone talking about these days. But now to the budget, Mrs Minister: The fairy tale reading you held today has essentially repeated from last year, as only a few numbers have been exchanged. I understand, as a government party, you have to be good at presenting bad facts, figures and data, and that is exactly what you have done. They have used formulations that Austria should speak beautifully. The opposition does not mean Austria bad, quite the contrary: We too are proud of this country, of the entrepreneurs, of the people who are hardworking and diligent and who want to know what we want to do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Minister, what you're doing here is nice to talk about and put the bad numbers on the table, because you're exposing yourself. You have provided an supplement to the budget. – Mrs Minister, if you could take a look from your iPad at the supplement of the Ministry of Finance! [[The speaker turns to the government bank and holds a document in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] There it is cast into numbers, as it actually looks, and people should know that in front of the TV. It is clear that the debt ratio increases from 72.4 percent in 2011 to 74.7 percent in 2012 and then to 75.7 percent in 2013, i.e. an increase. The debt increases, you make new debts. The same is true of taxes and taxes: In 2011, it was 42.0 percent, 2012 42.6%, 2013 43.1 percent, almost half a percent more taxes and taxes each year. [[Abg. Krainer: 1.5 percent less than grass!]] – The debt increases, with the support of Mr Krainer from the SPÖ, who is now making intermediate calls. Dear colleague Krainer! They are the tax increase party, they are also the work-destruction party, because only those who relieve people creates new jobs. You have to take note of this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The result of the unemployment rate is also on this point, Mr Krainer, because in 2011, Minister Fekter, we had 4.2 percent unemployment rate, in 2012 it was 4.4 percent, so more, and in 2013 it will be even more, it will be 4.8 percent. That is, all that you have tried on the part of the ÖVP and also the SPÖ here today to give of yourself, to speak beautifully of how great the budget is, does not in any way stand the facts that the Ministry itself has created – and with that you have to live. I therefore believe that it will not be enough simply to represent, we are objective to the better, to the worse, but we must become the best, Mrs Minister! It is also a difference, for example, that Germany has no debt proceedings, no longer in the hands of EU deficit proceedings, but Austria is very well off. This will have its reason, which will probably ultimately be due to poor financial data in Austria. I only think that we spend € 6.5 billion – that is the biggest single item at all – only for interest, so much more than for education, for research and development or for a reasonable military reform – instead of making a political theatre on the back of young people and performing a popular vote that is absolute indifference, just as the question is formulated, ladies and gentlemen. I remember that instead of creating a proper insolvency right for banks, we are throwing the money into the banks. That would be your job! Or if I think that the federal liability currently amounts to € 122 billion, then the state liability and the municipal liability, once again €50 billion, will be added, then with the liabilities – and in the worst case, liability will also hit – at €200 billion, Mr. Colleague of the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Then we are in debt of the country, €209 billion you spend on the budget, but there comes the ÖBB, the ASFINAG, the municipalities et cetera, then we have real debt of almost €300 billion. Who's to pay for this, Mrs. Finanzminister? Who'll do that? Is this your saver that's sitting at the ÖVP somewhere, or is he at the SPÖ? – Numbers will be the people outside, who have to pay for it through high taxes and taxes in this country. That's the core of the thing! That is to say, Austria is actually in debt, thanks to 25 years of ÖVP Finance Minister. You just have to take note of that, that's the truth. To the reform budget. Mrs Minister, I can't hear what reforms you're supposed to be doing. That's where you expose yourself again. For example, on page 27 of today’s fairy tale reading under the theme “IT Strategy”: “Fulfil 230 million times a year Companies in Austria are one of the 5,700 federal information obligations, in particular to authorities.” 230 million times, 5 700 information obligations for our businesses, for SMEs, for businesses, for industry. – Go here and get rid of this palawach! Reform Once you have the rules so that businesses don't just have to report so that they can work properly outside! That would be your job, Minister of Finance! Or do you think, in conclusion, of the funding jungle at the Ministry of Agriculture at the ÖVP, which we discussed yesterday. [[Complementary of the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] At the “inserator” Berlakovich, the “inserator” Faymann – that is all known, that did not want to clarify ÖVP and SPÖ – you can make cuts, as you can save millions a year. Lastly, a sentence on education. You have not implemented the educational desire in any way, but you do not need much money at all. There you only have to create the appropriate framework conditions, but you have also prevented that. In research and development, we have a gap, a gap in financing of around €2 billion by 2020. That's what JOANNEUM RESEARCH says, and that's what the BZÖ says. In other words, around € 1 billion is publicly funded and € 1 billion is missing from the private sector. Where's your gap? – You did not have any concepts here, so the goal is to bring Austria forward by 3.76 percent by 2020. The only thing that remains, Mrs Minister, is that the debt increases, that the deficits continue to exist, that taxes rise and that the unemployment rate will continue to rise. We say: Let's end with it, we've already paid enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8785	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. 5 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8807	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps at the end of this discussion we would like to take a closer look at the actual content of these proposals. I think we have plenty of opportunity to light up the budget tomorrow. But one thing has always been very angry with me, that is, when representatives of the ÖVP say again and again that today's debts have arisen in the 1970s and eighties and have, so to speak, grown from the Kreisky era. That's about 40 years ago, and do you know how long you've been in government? – 26 years, about two thirds of the time. They have helped exorbitantly to drive the debts to where we stand today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In particular, in the years at the end of 1980 to the end of 1990, the debt curve went up steeply, and you were already there as a driving force. Many of you were there at the time and have decided, Mr Auer, my colleague, and if you can't remember what you decided at the time, then you are more part of the parliamentary antiquariat than here; you have to say that quite honestly. But let us once again shed light on one of the most intense causes of the financial crisis for me, namely the derivative story. These are financial instruments for risk assurance, i.e. the so-called hedging, or risk taking, speculation. Such financial instruments as the derivatives can hardly be surpassed by complexity and transparency, and after the outbreak of the real estate crisis, I see that, directly into the financial crisis. Then, almost logically in the case of such critical instruments, there have been significant market infrastructure deficits, and the inability of the supervisory authorities to recognise those market positions that were particularly high. It has actually happened that some of these market participants have built up exorbitant exposures. This has led to a very intense debate in experts on how this system can be improved. And here again and again, the following basic conditions have been mentioned: on the one hand, the increase in the efficiency of internal risk management processes, the establishment of a financial market surveillance that shed light on the overall market – we have discussed this somewhat more often, in the form of a European FMA –, the reform of capital standards with the aim of strengthening the equity base of the financial system, an improved management of liquidity risks with more stringent criteria for the refinancing structure, and thus, on the last hand, an improved market infrastructure with the aim of reducing the interdependence of market participants. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is this a speech or a talk?]] The implementation of today's Regulation is based on the introduction of a principle of clearing obligation for certain derivatives classified as suitable and on the provision of risk management procedures for those outside this clearing obligation, as well as transparency and a reporting obligation on details of completed details in these contracts. This is, of course, to be welcomed in principle, but one must also look at the overall volume of trade with such complex derivatives. In 2009, this trade reached the incredible sum of over 700 trillion US$. Of this, only a very small part is so standardized that it can be traded via the stock exchange, namely, barely 100 trillion US$, and the large proportion of those who are here, the extraordinary derivatives, have reached the 600 trillion $ turnover limit. So a huge sum is compared to what global stock trading achieves, i.e. a trade behind which real values actually stand. So that around 2 trillion US$ per day is made into beech, trade with such speculative instruments even exceeds a trade with real values. Everything that goes beyond these real values develops into a bubble and an immense and high risk. I believe that we now have to pay the token in this crisis. There must be no taboo in the discussion of such intrusive and, in fact, dangerous products. And it is a little too short for me that we are now introducing rules here, but there is not enough discussion about rejection and bans. I do not think we should stop and the continuation of this discussion must be a must. On the subject of federal vouchers, I think everything is said. We reject this proposal, but because we see the derivative template as a step in the right direction, knowing that the discussion process has to continue, we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8849	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Ing. Lugar in word. 10 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e8873	Mr President. High house! When we look back five years and look at what was then the biggest financial disaster after the Second World War, that was exactly what we're talking about today at the Lehman-pleite – and not all of us know. It was those, sometimes abstract financial instruments, that were traded, so to speak, over the counter – OTC – without control, from bank to bank. And there, Lehman was one of many, including the AIG – which then had to be saved by the American government – one of those banks that insured each other. You have to imagine this: With Basel I and Basel II, there was an obligation for banks to hold capital, depending on their risk. Now we know that no bank likes to keep a lot of equity. Now the banks have found a good way to avoid this. This possibility was these derivatives. They just went here and insured each other against failures. Now everyone knows it doesn't make any sense to be assured each other, because the risk remains. The risk remains 100 percent, regardless of whether you're insured with each other. But that's exactly what you did. And if you look at how the development of these OTC derivatives was, you can see that these have gone a hundred twentyfold over the last 20 years. In other words, the banks have “insuranced” each other’s risk – under quotation marks – and have therefore bypassed these capital requirements of Basel I and Basel II. And what did the legislator do? - He watched it. And then the Lehman plea happened, and this system is broken up. At that time, not only did Mr Novotny say, but all the experts said: These derivatives are a financial mass destruction weapon. Warren Buffett, one of the biggest investors, also said that at the time – a financial weapons of mass destruction. Today, five years later, we stand here and decide what these financial markets are to regulate. That sounds good once. I also think it's a first step. But when you look closely at it, it is exactly what we experience time and again. It is discussed, it is being negotiated, and in the end everything is watered down. Many of you today have not addressed something that is very important. Did you know that these rules only take 1 billion? That is, under 1 billion, these rules do not apply at all. We know that most OTC-treated derivatives are below 1 billion. That means it doesn't get there again. Furthermore, we know that at the moment no human has an overview of these derivatives. In other words, even if we are creating more transparency here in the future, the question is: What about those derivatives that are not yet covered? And that's supposed to be $700 trillion. This is more than in ten years being achieved all over the world. You have to imagine this: More than in ten years, there are financial derivatives here! And then I hear from the SPÖ only positive words for this regulation. I must hear from the ÖVP, Mr Ikrath, who is a bank representative, that we have to ask the fundamental question: Yes, do we need that at all? Do we need these derivatives? What do we need them for? If you look at the CDS, which also possessed or still owns the municipal credit of 13 billion, then the credit default insurance that works in this way: If I have a house and I assure it against fire, it makes sense. But if my neighbor assures my house against fire and also has an influence on whether it burns or not, it becomes dangerous in the system. This is exactly what we are doing here, rather than doing what Mr Ikrath says, namely thinking in principle about whether we need it at all. Could we not speak with one voice and act together here and pressure the EU that this is finally forbidden, because we do not need it?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hagen.]] We don't need it. And then a Frank Stronach comes and says, We must return from a financial economy to a real economy, then I believe that this is irreconcilable here in the hall. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Nevertheless, a Mr. Cap comes out and insults Mr. Stronach. I don't know why he's doing that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Stronach has only done good in Austria, he has donated 150 million €. [[Oh! Rufe]] Frank Stronach has created 13 000 jobs. It invested over €2 billion in Austria in a region that was structurally weak from the start. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: How much did you get?]] Frank Stronach has created 115 000 jobs worldwide. [[Unrest in the hall.]] And Mr. Cap is coming out, and what is he doing? – He insults Frank Stronach and insults him by making fun of Mr Stronach's Canadian accent by addressing his old age. – You have done all of this today, Mr Cap, and I wonder what the right is. With what right do you do that? Mr Stronach has not been blamed! On the contrary: He's only done good in Austria, and now he's founded a party, and that's your problem. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: How much?]] Now Mr. Stronach has founded a party, and Mr. Matznetter screams in between. Mr. Matznetter, you're the senior specialist. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: How much?]] Mr Matznetter, you turned out to be here today, and, as I say, in the protection of immunity, you blamed our Members, who are now at the Stronach team, for having been bought. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] And that's why you've told me cowardly here because you know when you say it outside, then we'll sue you in the ground and ground, and then you can stand in front of the judge's proof of truth. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hagen.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You're afraid of that, Mr. Matznetter. You're afraid of seeing the judge in the eye and having to come up with the proof of truth. You're afraid of that! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: How much?]] That's also the reason why you say it here. That's exactly why you say it here – and not outside. Say it outside, and we'll complain to you! And then you have the opportunity to prove your claims. And then you'll look pretty three. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That's why, Mr Matznetter, stop! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Look, why are all so afraid of Mr Stronach? – I can tell you one thing: If you continue to make such a bad policy here and if we do not start working together on the solutions for Austria, then not only will Frank Stronach, but other parties will also have a big deal to do. Did you know that in the last four years, since you've been in office, most of the 930 party formations that currently exist? What do you think this is? – This is simply because there is a huge need for the population according to proper politics. And if you're so sad here today and always say, Ah, the Frank Stronach, and he's so angry. – In the final effect, you allow him to make an offer in Austria for a better policy. If you were to make a better policy, we would not need it at all! That's what it looks like. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Tadler.]] That is, if you don't want to – and I know that in many parties the fear is great – that some more will pass on to us, I can tell you how you can prevent this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I am now telling you how you can prevent some of the representatives of the ÖVP, including the SPÖ and perhaps other parties from passing over to us. Do you know how to prevent that? – Make You just have a proper policy for this country! It's that simple. If you make a proper policy, then no one will come to us, and no one will choose us either. But as long as you do not do a proper policy and as long as you do not address the problems – for which the Minister of Finance has been a parade example with her budget speech today, we will be able to do so tomorrow – if you have these problems that we have in this country, from pensions to health, through administration to the euro, if you do not address all these problems, then parties such as the Stronach team will also have a great deal to do with them. Also by Members of this Chamber! I can prophesy to you, and that will be so. That's why: If you make proper politics, then you don't need to approach us, and then you don't need to insult us! If you make a proper policy, you don't have to be afraid of us either, Mr Cap! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9036	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Graf gives the bell sign.]] I would like to draw attention to the voting process. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Treasure Act, together with the title and receipt in 1899 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal concerning a federal law whereby a federal law on the effective functioning of Regulation (EU) No. 648/2012 is adopted through OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade registers and the Financial Market Supervisory Act and the Finality Act are amended, including the title and receipt in 1914 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimity. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[13:43:05]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1891, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on a Transparency Database (TDBG 2012) (1923 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9127	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Linder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). If desired, 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9155	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to colleagues from the SPÖ series: It's actually fascinating how you go to the speaker's desk permanently and try to give the Carinthian SPÖ election aid by beating at us! But I hope you also noticed that Carinthian SPÖ-Obmann Peter Kaiser was the loudest and first critic of your own partyobmann. This is how solidarity is understood, and we are doing well. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Not at all...!]] To the transparency database: Originally, the transparency database was called upon by Minister of Finance Pröll to reflect on social benefits and to stop double funding. In addition, they said: It must not only be about social benefits, it must also be about economic promotion, it must also partly be about agricultural support. From it a law was passed in 2010 – the transparency database law – but the law was never implemented! It is probably even then that one has doubted that it can be implemented in the form. It was fascinating for me today, as Mrs Fekter explained, that this project, this law, was awarded a prize even in Germany – and today we are actually already adopting the law of succession! Now I'm asking you [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No...!]] What has been awarded in Germany? - That's quite funny. What has really been awarded? In principle, freedom of opportunity is one of the top and most important objectives for us. It is necessary to know who gets how much support that can be used to exclude double funding in the social sector, in the economic sector, as well as in the agricultural sector. It would also be very important for us in the communities to know: Who really needs help? Who can still be supported by the community? – Today this is very often a blind flight because you have no idea who gets how much of the federal and the country’s support. Unfortunately, this law, which is to be passed today, does not at all correspond to these ideas, for in principle only the servicer himself has the opportunity to take insight to explain to him and to show how much he himself receives in support. We have no chance to review and control double relationships on the part of the sponsors, on the part of the paying agencies. That is why the new law, I mean, only produces more administrative burden and increases bureaucracy. Actually, it's a joke that you're saying today: We are trying to implement administrative reforms, we are trying to restrict administration. – This is not the case with this law at all! That is why we will vote against it, because we believe that this transparency database law does not in any way prevent double promotion or triple promotion, but merely produces more administration.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9211	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9232	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today on this Transparency Database Act 2012, this is the consistent continuation of the path that we have already taken with the Transparency Database Act 2010. Further development has resulted from the fact that, as you all know, we are on the 6th. Here in this House on July, an Article 15a agreement has been reached between the Federal Government and the countries with which the countries are also involved. And that's the last step, as it were. This transparency database law has two essential elements: one is the transparency portal, the other is the actual transparency database. I believe that this is actually a win-win situation for both citizens and public administration: The citizen receives much more service, he receives in the transparency portal an insight into what services, promotions, transfers under which conditions – in which case he has not so far had – and the public has facilitated execution. Now it is also true that multiple promotions can be shown here. I am very glad that we are able to take this step today, because I have already said the following from this speaker's mouth, ladies and gentlemen: We have one of the highest social quotas in this country, about 30 percent of social products, on the other hand, we have still not overcome poverty. What does that mean? – It can only logically be said – high social rate, poverty still exists – that, as well, the security of the social system is not given. I believe that this transfer database will contribute to the fight against poverty, in the end, because, through the transparency portal, every citizen will have insight into the conditions under which he receives the services or promotions of the public sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that this is really an essential step forward and it is not a coincidence – Mrs Finanzminister mentioned it in her budget speech today – that in Germany at 12. Competition via eGovernment our model of transparency database received the first prize. Ladies and gentlemen, we are setting international standards here! Mrs Finanzminister! We are very pleased that the Minister of Finance is always in favour of transparency in other areas. If, for the first time, we get a precise list of income tax reports this year, what actually happens to our taxes is exactly what we have been introducing for years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] I mean, the taxpayer has a right to know what happens to his tax. Thank you very much, Mrs Finanzminister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We did not need a law to do this, that was the initiative of our Minister for Finance! That is how I imagine a transparent, efficient fiscal and financial policy, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, all data that are not already available in the file of the Ministry of Finance, the main association of social security funds, of the AMS, will be stored operationally carried out by the Bundesrechenzentrum. I believe that we have really made an important policy to bring more fairness and more justice into the support and social system. Thank you for this initiative!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9298	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9335	Mr President, transparency looks different from the transparency of the database law. That's a joke! My previous speaker has already pointed out that this is already the second law we are making in this matter because the first law has fallen. Okay, can happen – but it's not a coincidence, I'd say. We have been discussing this project since 2009. I say to you now, on the example of a simple citizen, namely Mr Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly, what this one has from the transparency portal. In future, from the public administration, it can experience all its potential benefits from the financial sector. Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly can inform himself about the public hand, namely: I could still file a subsidy for that, and I could still submit a promotion there. [[Abg. Amon: Yes!]] – Is his right, isn't it? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Well, Mr Amon thinks that the transparency portal was probably only created for Mr Mensdorff-Pouilly. I have different ideas! I believe that the public should have a right – without the transparency portal! – to know where a Mr. Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly has been promoted in recent years. We can tell you because I have made an appropriate request myself. And behold, it turns out: Mr. Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly receives €19 000 in public funds for the promotion of his stable, for the construction of his stable: €19 000. Yes, what do we discuss about any child grants you or some of you think there are double funding? Mr. Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly has received €15 000 in EU agricultural support because he operates a mining plant in Luising. Very steep is obviously the terrain situation in Luising. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Vineyards are also mountains!]] 15 000 € – we could only learn that because for two years this EU agricultural support database was open! Now it is no longer open, and it is not open either through the transparency portal or through the transparency database. Mr. Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly has received €120 000 in support from AMS funds because he had to do short work in his weapon building in Vienna or Hungary! He was briefly prevented from operating these plants because he was in U-Haft. That's how it looks – and here, ladies and gentlemen, we would like transparency! But transparency not only for those concerned, who can then see what he has involved in promotions, but also for transparency in the sense that everyone knows what galeries are operating in that country to arrive at public funding.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9403	Mrs Fekter spoke. - Please. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank you for ‘waiting’ all the speeches, Mrs. Minister! Very nice! Classical parliamentary practice!]] Mr President, I should like to interrupt briefly: I agreed with the Federal Minister. It is not really good, either, when the Federal Minister speaks as the last one. [[Abg. Head: Eben! Both are ultimately criticized!]] This is why it takes the floor in advance so that Members have the opportunity to replicate.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9461	It is not intended to speak to the member of the government as the last party to the debate. I took into account this practice in Parliament, which I know, and that is why I meant speaking in the middle of the speakers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a disdain for further speeches!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Forget the Westenthaler, Mrs. Minister!]] [[Further calls.]] Further development of the transparency database law was due to the agreement between the Federal Government and the countries in accordance with Article 15a B-VG, which the National Council adopted on 6 June. ==References====External links== With this Article 15a agreement, the countries wanted to participate, also to bring in their funding and also to obtain access to information. The current novel is made up of two parts: A part concerns the transparency portal, which means that all public funding can be accessed via the Internet, both from the federal and from the federal states and later from the local authorities. The second part is the transparency database in which all services paid to the Federal Government's services from 2013 onwards, in particular the promotions, are personally collected. Every citizen, every entrepreneur, then has the opportunity to query his/her received benefits. Mr Oellinger, it was not up to me that only the recipient was entitled to benefit. That is, I have nothing against it, if here the House finds a consensus that this service offer is extended – but of course only in compliance with the strictest data protection requirements! We have implemented this by this law, because personal data is always subject to constitutional data protection, and therefore it is not possible to make all personal data accessible to anyone. At the same time, there is a need to simplify the administration by, for example, requiring evidence of the funding of other funding agencies, which is electronically available or that documents can also be issued to the promoter through its received funding. The entire project, both the transparency portal and the transparency database, as well as the possibility of evaluation in conjunction with statistics, the entire project as an e-government project was evaluated in the competition via e-Government with the best marks and has won the most innovative prize there. That is, internationally, it is thought to be completely different. One sees it, free from ideological glasses, as a service for the population. Because there are so many different fundings – 44 000 approaches, for example at local level, more than 3,000 at country level and still 2 700 at federal level – no one can have an overview of them because there is currently no central register, where you can see what is being promoted and from which place. With the portal, we get such an overview and with the database we also get an overview of what a single person or company receives from funding. The agricultural subsidies are already being shown transparently, and that is what will be fed in. The countries are also different in this respect. There are federal states that are already publishing all their promotions with the associated service providers on the Internet. As an example, I would like to mention Salzburg in this regard. There are other federal states that are relatively reluctant in their cooperation for this large project. Mr Oellinger, because you say there is a further development here: I can assure you now that there will be further developments! In particular, if the evaluation project agreed with the countries in the Article 15a Agreement provides, after some time, additional information, or if the local authorities agree that they too will make their funding transparent and accessible to the public accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9530	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9551	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why is this amendment necessary? – On the one hand, to prepare a editorial report, on the other hand: As regards the publication of statistics, the special provisions of the Transparency Database Act are to be repealed, so that the relevant provisions of the Federal Statistical Act are applied. This is a sensible and good arrangement, because it would seem a bit strange if the evaluations in the transparency database were not published. Mr Oellinger, whether Mr Mensdorff receives or not, is not decided by the transparency database, but it becomes at least more transparent than before. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] The law also decides whether to grant it. But whether he needs it, needs it, and if she needs someone else more, we can discuss it. [[Abg. Oillingers: You still haven't understood how the workman works!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the transparency database and the portal, exactly what we all call for in the House for years, the opposition parties are being fulfilled. At the previous item on the agenda, Mr Widmann spoke of a jungle of funding, which is a forested thing. We need to detect and stop double funding, we need to detect and stop funding abuse. This is important for policy makers. It is an important source of information to assess the need for, efficiency and effectiveness of the funding instruments. This helps save resources and simplify administrative processes. Of course, this can only work – the Minister has already mentioned it – if the corresponding service providers feed in the data. Article 15a contracts have already been concluded. This transparency portal, together with the database, is also an advantage for citizens, a significant relief. They may draw electronic evidence of applications for support and forward it to the authorising bodies. This is a major simplification in the bureaucratic process, a part of the administrative reform, which is also repeatedly called for by the opposition and the Court of Auditors. This draft law has therefore earned a large majority in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9623	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9644	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Just briefly to the procedure, because we discussed this before: Whatever you do up there with the President or he with you, I hold for my group once and for all: It is good Parliamentary Usus that the Minister or the Minister speaks after the first round of Members, so that smaller groups can enter into the discussion and you can address the arguments so that you can discuss each other. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] And if there's only one round, there's only one. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I note that it is not all right for you to report after the third speaker and then no longer have to go into arguments from other parties, because then you are leaning back and tormenting your iPad again on the government bank, which you are squeezing all morning. Now to the matter itself: Transparency is not yet a guarantee for social justice, Mr President. That's not it at Weitem yet. They have meant that this transparency also creates a certain social justice, I do not see it that way. Still because of the fact that there is simply no such transparency. This is a cure that is going on today. We are amending a law that was passed in 2010 but has not yet been implemented. There's no such thing as that at all. It doesn't exist! We're changing a law that doesn't exist de facto. There is no transparency database, nothing at all. There are Article 15a contracts, Mrs Minister, to which you refer. Just tell me what the city of Vienna actually does for the transparency database! Tell us! And I would have liked to discuss that with you. What did the city of Vienna do for this? Besides an interesting statement by the responsible Vienna city councillor Brauner – I think she is also vice-president. In an interview on the database of transparency published in May of this year in the daily newspaper “The Press”, Mrs. Stadtratin Brauner said the following – I mean, you are shot by the sun and the moon, Mrs. Minister: “What I heard from the transparency database makes me skeptical.” Then the question of the “press” – you have to imagine, the competent councillor, who is actually responsible for it –: “Are you against it?” Mrs Brauner said: “The current proposal is inappropriate.” – He is inappropriate! That was a few months ago, that's all on the table. And Brauner continues: “He is extremely complicated and means a crazy bureaucratic effort.” – That’s what Mrs Brauner says. And then the colleague comes out from the SPÖ before me and says what a great administrative simplification that is! His own councillor in Vienna laments this bureaucratic effort. You don't know yourself, deputies, that's the truth. [[Abg. May. Kuzdas: And you know each other?- Oh, my God!]] They come out here and defend something that your own people in Vienna shoot through the sun and moon. Do you know what Mrs. Brauner continues to say? “The only thing it brings” – that is, the transparency database – “is service posts. In Vienna we needed eighty people to manage the database.” 80 people in Vienna, Klubobmann Cap, needed a “wonderful” administrative simplification! I congratulate you, colleague of the SPÖ. If these are your administrative simplifications, I can only say: Good night, dear state and dear countries in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What this administrative simplification of the transparency database looks like is obvious. [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] So, that's the transparency database. Look at this. That's the new one now. You can look at that. And do you know where the transparency database is? I ringed her in, there! Do you know what's strange? – There has already been implemented what Mrs Brauner says, namely that they have no interest at all, because there are only arrows gone, but none in. This database of transparency is not being fed at all. Mrs. Minister! You can maim that, your prestige project from your predecessor, that won't come! It is likely that we will be standing back in two, three years and will pass a legislative amendment to a law that has not yet entered into force. It is a huge farce that will be enchanted there, a Potemkinian village that will not actually work, does not exist and will not bring any transparency at all, because your country representatives are not willing to participate in it. It is a shame what you believe in Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9714	The amendment tabled by Mr Kuzdas is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9765	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter) Now don't log in again, now you have nothing to say! Removed, prepotent to the no longer going!]] Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 1891. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Stummvoll, Krainer, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning § 18 and § 34. In view of the fact that there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt, in the version of the Government template, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:08:28]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1900 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on Austrian Contributions to International Financial Institutions (IFI Contribution Law 2012) (1920 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1901 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Increase in Austria's quota for the International Monetary Fund (1921 d.a.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1904 D.B._Other Organiser Amendment to the Convention establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (1922 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9821	We come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Podgorschek has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9848	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the current situation, we are opposed to the increase in the rates of the IMF and, as a consequence, to payments to the IMF, on the one hand, because of the impenetrable role of the IMF, such as the one currently playing in the troika in Greece, and, on the other hand, through the treatment of debt countries, where it is more likely to give the impression that the IMF is acting in the sense of the financial economy and less in the sense of the States and the taxpayers. It is, I think, no one escapes and it is constantly in the media: Greece is facing a new debt cut. We can assume that this will meet our budget sooner or later. I believe that, at the same time, a bankruptcy would now be cheaper than to shoot forever and see Greece as a barrel without soil. Strengthening the country's lack of competitiveness can only be achieved in the long run by devaluation. Therefore, Greece must withdraw from the euro, whether it is so appropriate or not. Only a depreciation leads to growth, and then Greece can return to the euro zone sooner or later. It must therefore go from our point of view to a waiting room, or whatever you want to call it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This, of course, is not in the sense of the European politicians, some of them really, I have the impression that economic logic is missing. It is only a narrower EU ideology. But you just have to take note that the Earth is now no longer a disc. I know that Galileo, too, took 359 years until he was finally rehabilitated by the Catholic Church. But it is true that, as it is at present, Greece cannot be kept in the euro zone. This has already been recognised by Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg, who now also notes that Greece will leave the euro zone within six months at the latest. It is, exactly what Greece is getting, an end to horror better than vice versa: a terror without end. Therefore: No payments to any institutions, IMF, ESM or other institutions at the expense of our taxpayers!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9904	The next speaker was Mr Bartenstein. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9927	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The position of the liberals on Greece is not new, but it does not become more reasonable. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The position of the liberals to block payments to the IMF now is new and even more unreasonable to me than the position of the liberals in terms of Greece and its stay in the euro zone. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For decades, the International Monetary Fund has been doing indispensable work to stabilise countries in a financial terminal. Troika and Greece have already been mentioned. Also there is the IMF, but not only there. Now it may seem as if this is already a huge sum, namely the doubling of the IMF's equity to 477 billion so-called special drawing rights, that is the IMF's currency, which is about 1.2 € per special drawing right – that is to say, about 600 billion €. On the other hand, this is de facto the first capital increase since 1998 and from our point of view therefore absolutely justified. If we now mention the IMF, the Monetary Fund, and €600 billion here as capital, it is about ten days after the ESM has become operational, but it is obvious that you look at yourself a bit: Well, what does the IMF have to do with the ESM? Some of us have done this, and I have also mentioned several times that Europe needs something like a European Monetary Fund. This has now become the ESM, with the financial stability and facility of a total of €700 billion in de facto volume of liability, so not so far away from the IMF. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the comparison is already coherent. But it is also coherent to take a piece of excitement out of the whole ESM topic, because hand to heart: So far, what has it done to us politically if we have equipped the IMF with resources to assume the appropriate liability? So, as I said, we should leave the church in the village for ESM and approach the subject with a little more serenity. One more thing: No government of this world volunteers under the IMF's Kuratel – it's help, but it's also Kuratel. And some voices say: A government that once has to knock on the IMF has never been re-elected, so politically not a real incentive to be introduced to the IMF. We should also see the attractiveness of the ESM. You will certainly only go there if it is absolutely necessary and it is no longer different, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. One last on other topics. I believe that the increase in funds for the International Agricultural Development Fund and the Asian Development Bank are part of our commitment to EZA. We continue to insist on spending 0.7 percent of our GDP for EZA by 2015. This is actually a very ambitious goal. The goal is not new either. I believe that the extension of the possible activity of the EBRD to the entire Mediterranean area should be welcomed. The aim of the EBRD is, among other things, to ensure market economy and democracy. When you think of the Mediterranean, you also think of Arab development, of Arab spring. We know what we're talking about. We would also like to support this right up to Mongolia.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e9987	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10009	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The IMF quota increase is in itself something you can in principle agree with. It is only because we see the problem that the Minister could not explain to us in the Committee how this actually goes about the stage. We therefore see here, as it were, a problem as to how this should work with the exchange of shares, and we will reject it accordingly. But where I am basically different from my predecessor, the question is about Greece and the euro. I think that the announcement that Greece should leave the euro is very dangerous in the sense of self-fulfilling prophecy. No human can predict what happens in Europe today when Greece has to leave the euro. However, it is certainly – and this is what the many studies there are – show: It threatens recession, mass unemployment, which would endanger social cohesion. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Capitalism!]] For this reason alone, a clear no to that! We agree with the other two legislative proposals. With regard to IFI a fundamental yes – only because it can be counted on on the ODA quota. However, if the target of 0.7 percent is to be achieved in 2015, then speed will have to be significantly increased. EBRD Statute Change: Yes – positive in the sense of a sign for the Arab Spring, and also because it is an organization that basically has a very good track record in developmental issues, which is human rights. But as a problem and as a wormhead drop, we see that the EBRD is now also a bank that promotes the retrofitting of an nuclear power station in Ukraine. There is a signature of Global 2000, and we see this project in Ukraine as a problem. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10046	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10068	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to talk about the two relevant development policy proposals: the replenishment of the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the Asian Development Fund, on the one hand, and the amendment of the Convention with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the extension of its activities in the Arab Spring area, on the other, on the other, to try to help and effectively promote principles such as multi-party democracy, but also pluralism and the market economy. If this is about the means of promoting and supporting private entrepreneurship initiatives, I should be right. Yesterday we had an exciting event here in Parliament, where we talked about the role of private donors as a new player in development cooperation, which also includes the latest international documents, such as Busan's. The representative of the Ministry of Finance mentioned yesterday as a focus on IFIs that there is a need to improve the conditions for investment, But the private sector will also be directly encouraged by about 30 percent of the volume in the future. However, it remains to be done at the macro level too, such as to maximize the relevance of the projects to combat poverty, to ultimately highlight and promote the real impact of development cooperation on the regional economy, to optimise, to strengthen local value chains, but also to perceive and address the poorer population as both consumers and producers. These are very important objectives that we can support in parliamentary terms, where we should be involved. Let me take the opportunity to say something about the development budget. It is welcome that in 2013 the budget provides € 6.6 million more for bilateral development cooperation in order to stop the constant decline that has prevailed so far. With this we should really have reached the valley floor now, and I assume that it will continue to go uphill from the year 2014. Of course, it is necessary to take appropriate measures in the Federal Financial Framework Act. A further reduction in the amounts in 2014 would not be logical or reasonable. I would be in favour of adopting a new and truly binding budget roadmap in this regard. Mr Rossmann spoke in front of me and said that in 2015 we will reach the 0.7 percent of GNI for development cooperation. Unfortunately, I do not think this is realistic anymore, but we should agree at least until when we really want to achieve the goal – for example, at least until 2018. It is very important to pursue development policy with more money, because only if there is a reasonable financial resources, will we be taken seriously on the issue of international. We from SPÖ are quite ready to take appropriate steps in relation to federal financial framework law. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10116	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10137	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: High House! Dear Frankie!]] In fact, ‘genuinely paid!’ is also relevant to these agenda items, which essentially concern payments to international financial institutions. We have said in the Committee that we can already discuss development aid, and we are also quite prepared to have a proper, objective discussion. However, the arguments - and I have already said this to colleagues in the committee - must also be taken into account by NGOs in this field. There is increasingly a climate of skepticism, of criticism, of whether all the funds we pay into these giant funds – the Asian Development Fund is the €32 million we are sending there now – then really get where you want them. It is also the question of whether, with such huge financial structures, there is sufficient influence at all and can be determined in such huge funds in order to be able to manage the funds accordingly in right channels. There are many NGOs who no longer see this, and believe that it might be more interesting and useful to grant such funds in future on bilateral relations and to establish bilaterally in negotiations: Yes, if we are involved there with financial means, we want to support this or that project in particular. – I believe that this is reasonable: away from the large funds, into which everything is poured into and where one cannot understand what is happening with the money, and towards bilateral agreements and bilateral support. There would be better control. With regard to the extension of the IMF, the increase in Austria's quota by €2.2 billion from 2.1 billion special drawing rights to 3.9 billion, one has already to hold – and Mr Bartenstein did not say that – that by increasing the quota the interest income of the Austrian National Bank is falling and therefore the profit distribution for the federal budget, for the federal government, is also falling annually. You didn't say that! But you have to know. Now I'm telling you quite honestly: We shoot at that every time to save any Marod land that has in fact lost nothing in the euro zone. It would be more reasonable to prepare for the exit of such countries and to keep the money in the country instead for budgetary measures, for example in the social or family sphere. That would be more important. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The reason for the payments is the favour of the euro countries, which is continuing, and of course, all those who criticize it are right. Furthermore, further additional obligations are not excluded. This is then being discussed more and more, more and more, in different tranches. That's quite interesting: We are dealing here with three items on the agenda, on which we are generously distributing funds with both hands or giving up money, and before that we have had a agenda item – the budget speech of the Minister of Finance – in which she has told us how difficult it is because you have to save and we have too little money. That doesn't fit together and that's what people no longer understand, and that's why we criticize it. We are also doing this on the third point at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is even more so because the EBRD is expanding its support programme, its funding, its beneficiary countries in the southern and eastern Mediterranean. It has attached this to the condition that these countries are committed to the principles of multi-party democracy, pluralism and the market economy. And now I ask Mr Cap as a great foreign politician: Morocco, Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia and, as a culmination, Mongolia as a solution to the implemented multi-party system, pluralism and the market economy. I'm really wondering: Do they mean that? If one considers that an extension of the EBRD framework is to be extended, and nothing else is agreed upon and demanded by five countries: Multiparty systems must be present, pluralism, market economy. - Oh! I have read a word: “recognize. ” The confession is enough! It doesn't have to be there yet, you just have to confess. That's enough. “We too!” someone says there – one of the dictators or any of the, what I know, extremists who are running around there now, because the Arab Spring has not brought hands to the heart where we all would have liked it, it has not so far been in multi-party systems, not in more pluralism and not in the market economy. If that will be the case, you will see it first. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I am sluggish about how to agree to such an extension of the EBRD's activity with such a justification, because in the end this means nothing more than more and more liability for Austria. And I'm sure we're not there from the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10197	The next speaker was Mr Glaser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10218	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The contributions to the international financial institutions are part of Austrian development cooperation and can also be expected from the ODA-Quote. In the field of multilateral assistance, we are doing well in Austria, although critics say that we are doing too little in many areas and overall. I'm part of that too. As I said, in this field of multilateral contributions – be it contributions to the European Union or to the international financial institutions – I believe that we are contributing to making comparable contributions to other countries. This is also reflected in the fact that contributions to the international financial institutions, for example, were at €160 million in 2010 and rose to €228 million in the meantime. From these contributions to the international financial institutions – specifically €16 million for the International Agricultural Development Fund and €32 million for the Asian Development Bank – loans are granted to the poorest countries in the world on relatively favourable terms and conditions, or non-refundable grants. And what's going to do with it? – Infrastructural projects will be implemented, and food production will be tried to increase the value added by integrating small farmers into the value chains and strengthening food security through regional cooperation. All in all, they do a good job. In particular, however, it is possible to promote larger projects through these financial institutions. There have been various criticisms, and I too believe that the knowledge of the achievements of these international financial institutions is not really great. In May last year we had a debate on these IFIs with State Secretary arbitration. [[Abg. Pendl: A good State Secretary!]] It was found that these IFIs are important for them to do good work, but it would be desirable for us to know more about the activities of these financial institutions, especially here in Parliament. So we will certainly continue this discourse. As necessary, it has also been shown that we are increasing competence in the area of development cooperation. We have this competence, for example, in the field of ADA. But we need them even more in the field of business, the private sector. Companies complain that they do not have access to these IFIs projects. This testifies to the lack of competence. Mr Petra Bayrhat mentioned the meeting yesterday. Among other things, it has been reported that especially in those countries where development cooperation is also perceived by the economy, the quota can easily be fulfilled, because development cooperation is not only seen as aid to the poorest countries in the world, it is necessary, but it is also seen as an economic factor. That's why we should take more care of ourselves in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10256	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Kaipel to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10279	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The three applications under negotiation deal with adaptations to the country's crisis and development financing. With the IFI contribution law, we fulfil the commitments to support the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the Asian Development Fund with the amounts previously mentioned as a contribution to international solidarity, but also to the achievement of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, namely the halving of poverty by 2015. These funds help the poor rural population to grow more food, increase their incomes and determine their own lives. They also facilitate access to small loans, adapted technologies, fair markets, basic infrastructure, health services, education and the like. Since 1978, the IFAD has invested 14 billion dollars, helping some 400 million people to find a way out of poverty. From 2006 to 2010, ADF invested 2.5 billion dollars annually to combat poverty in the Asian region. We also decide to double the special drawing rights at the IMF. For Austria, this means an increase of around 2.1 million to 3.9 million; at the same time, quota shares are shifted in favour of developing countries, resulting in a slight decline in Austria's share. The IMF's main financial source is the Member States' quotas, and they also determine their access to loans and their voting rights. This measure is a consequence of the financial crisis, in which the need for crisis loans has increased dramatically, but at the same time the capacity of the IMF has fallen sharply. As a result, G 20 in 2009 called for measures that we want to implement today with these applications. At this point, it may also be noted that the IMF will change its strategy in relation to the allocation of funds, which have always been very strict. Recent studies have shown that the fiscal multiplier is not 0.5 as previously assumed, but 0.9 to 1.7, and this means that every euro saved has a much more negative impact on economic development. Finally, we are adopting an amendment to the Convention on the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This will extend the EBRD's scope of action to the countries of the southern and eastern Mediterranean, thus supporting economic progress in this area, which can also have a positive impact on migration movements. Finally, I note that the applications to be decided not only represent a contribution to international solidarity but also a chance for Austrian companies to open up new markets. We both want to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10326	Mr Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10347	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the intensive debate on three similar but different agenda items. Very soon: The IMF quota increase serves to ensure that the IMF can continue to provide sufficient liquidity for what it has done as a crisis response in recent years. I think that's very important. Even if the IMF is critically questioned for its role in the programme countries and now also the economic expertise in terms of growth prospects in the programme countries, it has done a positive job. In fact, we decide that the Oesterreichische National Bank is authorised by the present law to increase its shares in these special drawing rights, because it there maintains, on behalf of Austria, these special drawing rights, that is, the currency of the World Monetary Fund. For IFAD 9 and the Asian Development Fund only two brief notes: I also believe that these multilateral financial institutions, as part of development cooperation, are necessary, especially for small countries, which are thus also given the opportunity to participate in larger projects, i.e. to do something on a larger scale. It lacks any basis to play out multilaterally against bilateral development cooperation. We have just presented today that next year also € 6.6 million more are intended for bilateral development cooperation in the budget. I have also decided for the discussion what the results of the work of these institutions are. This is about the whole, not just the Austrian contribution. At IFAD, the result is that 400 million people in poor rural areas have benefited from programmes on our planet and have been part of programmes. 4.5 million, including two thirds of women, were trained in agricultural production techniques because it is precisely about people learning to feed themselves. About 700 000 people have been trained in business and business activities to be able to make sustainable economies. 2.2 million people were taught in the management of municipal projects, as everything from water supply and wastewater to basic services is part of it. The results of the Asian Development Fund, by the way, are essentially about the last five years, i.e. not the entire period of existence: 19 million students were granted access to education through the establishment and improvement of 60,000 classrooms and training of 720,000 teachers. 252 million people were supported with regard to access to economic opportunities and social institutions through the construction and renewal of more than 56,000 kilometres of road. This may sound simple now, but it is often so in certain areas of Asia that people can't even get to where they could learn basics without the availability of roads. 2.1 million households have received clean drinking water through the installation and renewal of 14,000 kilometres of water supply pipelines, and 1.8 million households have been connected to the electricity grid or now have improved electricity supply because 35 000 kilometres of power supply have been built. This has also stabilised its production and information possibilities. Looking at what has been invested in energy efficiency and renewable energy in these countries means saving 2 million tonnes of CO2. To the EBRD two references: The aim is to extend the scope of the programmes precisely in favour of Arab spring in countries which meet the requirements of multi-party democracy, market economy and these requirements. fill. This has no financial impact on Austria because only the programme area is expanded, but not the size of the development bank is extended. However, in order to bring this together in connection with opportunities for the Austrian economy, I would like to point out the following: While we have paid €143 million of capital and thus hold 2.28 percent of the Bank, the Austrian economy has benefited from the European Development Bank's programmes in recent years with orders of around €100 million annually. We can only see that economic opportunities for our country are well combined with assistance for poorer countries. That is why I think all these three projects should be supported and hope that they will be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10413	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft IFI Contribution Act 2012 including title and receipt in 1900 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading too, in order to give a sign in this regard. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft law on the increase in Austria's quota for the International Monetary Fund, including the title and receipt in 1901 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty – amendment of the Convention establishing the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – in 1904 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request made by the Financial Committee within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the French and Russian language versions of this State Treaty must be made known by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of Finance. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Neubauer: Colle Bucher stands!]] [[14:42:19]] 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1893, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on the re-use of the former Austro-German Community frontier customs offices (1925 d.a.) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1894, e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the fight against cross-border undeclared work and illegal cross-border lending (1926 d. B.) 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1882 D.B._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and Georgia and Additional Protocol amending the Convention on the Functioning of the European Communities, of the one part, and the Republic of Georgia, of the other part. On 14 April 2005 the Council of Ministers signed an agreement in Vienna to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes (1927, e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1890 D.B._Other Organiser Second protocol amending the Protocol on 25 February. Agreements signed in Hong Kong in May 2010 between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China in order to avoid double taxation and prevent the circumvention of taxes on income and wealth (1928, e.g.) 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1896, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one hand and the European Economic Area on the other. Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income and wealth in Vienna in January 1974 (1929, p. 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1897 D.B._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Cyprus and Additional Protocol amending Council Regulation (EEC) No. Agreements signed in Vienna in March 1990 to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes (1930 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10486	We now come to points 8 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Haider. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10515	Mr President. High house! Mr State Secretary! Six agenda items – my group will agree with the first two, the two agreements with the Federal Republic of Germany – one concerning cooperation in further use, the re-use of the border customs offices, the other concerning cooperation in the fight against cross-border undeclared work and illegal lending. If we are able to put the cooperation with the Federal Republic of Germany on a viable footing, that can only be our consent. We will not agree with the other four agenda items, the amendment of the already existing double taxation agreements: with Georgia, which has been in force since 2005, with Hong Kong, which has been in force since 2010, with Switzerland, which has been in force since 1974 and with the amendment of the agreement with Cyprus, which has been in force since 1990. We believe that this change is not necessary. Just briefly for the spectators – we have a lot of young spectators, whom I warmly welcome – about the history: Four years ago, the then German Finance Minister and current SPD Chancellor, Mr. Peer Steinbrück, launched a hunt for tax refugees and tax evaporators and managed to have the OECD Austria, Switzerland, Belgium and Liechtenstein put its eyes on the so-called grey list of tax havens, and it has put a pattern agreement on the States for such double taxation agreements. In this Parliament, the government parties took part in the first round of the elections. In September 2009, this OECD pattern agreement was adopted and all double taxation agreements are now being amended. We have already seen in these changes an erodement of the Austrian banking secret, we have also rejected that at the time, and will therefore, of course, in consequence of this rejection of the erodement of the Austrian banking secret of this non-necessary change in the existing double taxation agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10549	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10570	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear audience at the gallery! My previous speaker, Mr Haider, has already referred to these six points, and of course we do not agree on all six points. With regard to the agreements with Germany very well, but as you also said, in the double taxation agreements with the countries which are being evaluated in a row, just as it is, in order to name the names: Cyprus, Switzerland, Hong Kong and Georgia – we could now discuss for hours what you have said. The fact is that these double taxation agreements and these evaluations are simply necessary. Austria is export world champion. We know that every second job depends on export. And it is simply one of the most important things to invest abroad and also to transport goods abroad, that the framework conditions fit that fit the tax conditions and the legal conditions so that our companies also have the necessary protection; this is simply necessary. But I know certain opinions that you can only pick up sugar, but where obligations arise, we should not actually be there. To sum up, we know that this fits that this is all right, and this also shows the success of the companies that, as I said, are active abroad and also work or expand. As far as the agreements with Germany are concerned, we know that this was absolutely necessary in the case of undeclared work and temporary workers. There must be no distortion of competition, and it is also about the employees themselves, so that they are properly insured and the few black sheep that exist in this area simply come to the ground to stop this distortion of competition. As regards the border buildings at the borders with Germany: It was very, very important that you made it fast now. There are millions of broken ones that could be useful. There are already enough examples, I see it at home. I live in a border area, near Sillian, near Italy, where wood processing has been established – in Thörl-Maglers the product piracy has settled – and there is sufficient demand to benefit from these buildings, so that the Republic, whose property they are, does not have to bear the maintenance costs of these buildings, but that revenue will be recovered from them. As I said, All six points are important for the Austrian economy, and of course there is a clear agreement from our group on all six points. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10609	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10631	Ladies and gentlemen, I can take a short look at this because we will give our assent to the two main points. We believe it is reasonable and correct to continue the border customs offices, to provide them with appropriate care and to give them tasks – in the economic field – because we cannot rule out the temporary introduction of border controls, and then the infrastructure should be available. As you know, in some areas we are in favour of temporary reintroduction of border controls, especially when crime is again very high or when there are special events in the country. We will therefore agree to this. The agreement with the Republic of Germany on the fight against undeclared work is also reasonable and is of course supported by us, which we already believe should be controlled, in the form of a reporting system. It would be interesting if Parliament were to receive reports on a regular basis, particularly as regards administrative costs and the success of this cooperation. Everything else, there is no change, namely in the various double taxation agreements. We know that the Coalition Government remains guilty of its part of the agreement, so of course we reject it, because we believe that banking secrecy in Austria should not be remedied and the savers should be protected accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10661	Next speaker: Mr Haberzettl. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10682	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! I shall now proceed with the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the The Federal Republic of Germany deals with the subject of combating cross-border undeclared work and illegal cross-border lending, and I would like to start my speech with a quote by Professor Friedrich Schneider, who said in August of this year at an event: Growing shadow economy and social fraud are a lot of discussed topics today. In Austria, the resulting damage in 2012 is between €2.0 billion and €2.5 billion due to tax and social security failures. - Quote. Although only part of it is correct and only part of it can be sought again in the cross-border area, the damage can be estimated in millions, I think. In order to combat cross-border manifestations of undeclared work and illegal cross-border lending work, there is a need for a well-functioning intergovernmental cooperation in this area. Some Member States have already concluded bilateral agreements to combat undeclared work. The Contracting States in this case are thus seeking to intensify the cooperation of their bodies in the above-mentioned offences. Thus, starting from a Council resolution from 1999 to a communication from the Commission from October 2007, they are in line with the intentions to strengthen the fight against undeclared work. What are the areas covered by this agreement? – for the exchange of information on the establishment and task of the audit and control authorities and the appointment of the relevant contact persons, the joint planning and implementation of preventive measures, the exchange of information on testing and working methods, the transmission of necessary information, the unsolicited transmission of communications, so-called spontaneous communications, information on the progress of a procedure and the exchange of staff as hospitals. It does not include assistance for the payment of levies or judicial assistance. Central contact points are set up in the respective Contracting State for the execution of this contract, and a common on-the-spot check is also possible. The content of this Treaty is probably not fully in line with the needs to combat cross-border undeclared work. But if you know the rigorous access of the German authorities to social fraud, you can say, I think, that it is a right step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10731	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10752	Mr President. High house! I should like to refer a little closer to the government template concerning an agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany on the re-use of the former Austro-German-Austrian border customs offices. I think it is very supportive to say that there are common controls, which are regulated in 17 articles. I am allowed to strip Article 8, where it is regulated that the institutions of the neighbouring country are not allowed to wear military clothing and not a military weapon. I think we should consider this again, perhaps evaluate it next time. The service clothing helps to recognize, and the service weapon basically serves self-protection. Because customs handling is also expected to involve perpetrators I think you could think about it. I know it from my own professional experience. The control of goods, which we are talking about here, has nothing to do with border control, and the border controls are, of course, suitable for that, because this is somehow a needle tube and therefore ideal for such controls. If the Carinthian colleague, Mr Obernosterer, has also spoken of product piracy here, this shows how many areas such controls can, of course, be effective. And now I can go to my home town Bad Deutsch-Altenburg – this has nothing to do with a common border with Germany; it is located at the border with Slovakia. We have a noticeable tendency towards car burglaries, towards property crime, towards copper theft. Everyone driving the train knows how often it happens, that there is a stop and you have to change. The latter, from my point of view, is that our local cemetery is always visited again and again – because of small things, if there is a bit of copper to see. A widow was with me a week ago, spoke to me – very, very personally – and asked with tears in my eyes: What do you want me to do? My husband died a few years ago, and for the second time the tomb was visited. I therefore think it would be useful to think about extending this action and to think about how we could create a new, additional control density at all the previous border control points. That, I think, would be a reasonable answer to trends that I can see at least in my home community. Everything else remains the way it is. It is certainly an invitation, because after stealing the car it takes perhaps ten minutes and you are beyond the state border. I therefore believe that this action is useful and I think it is worthy of imitation to produce a density of control in all other areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10800	I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda items 8 to 13 on the implementation of a short debate. [[14:59:37]] Short debate on a request for deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10822	We are now entering into a short debate. The short debate concerns the request made by Mr Pilz, colleagues, from the Committee on Inquiry to clarify the grounds of corruption for reporting up to 4. ==References====External links== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the current deadline request. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e10861	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the Examining Committee, as you will soon need to be aware, is in front of the Examining Committee. We have known each other for a long time now and we know exactly what will happen when the most important payday of 2013 – and that is the National Council election day – is approaching. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Too long!]] [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, believe that you can now afford to change sides again on the issue of anti-corruption and put yourself on the side of political corruption and its covert interests. However, you know as well as we do, or many of you know – and this has also been shown at the Federal Party Conference of the SPÖ in St. Pölten – that this will not happen in the long term. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Were you there?]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Were you there? - No!]] Mr Commissioner or Mr Comrade, I don't have to be there to see what's going on with the SPÖ. I don't have to be there to see how many people in the SPÖ – right in the SPÖ! – say: The course at the top of my party is wrong! I don't have to have been in St. Pölten to know how many decent members, officials and functionaries of the SPÖ are no longer ready to take this course to the top of the SPÖ. I must not have been in St. Pölten to know how hard your so-called trustees in the local and urban organizations are to explain to people that the party president must be hidden from Parliament. What is it for a Social Democratic Party that has to act as a party to hide its own chairman from Parliament? - That's completely absurd! This is certainly nothing to go to and say in the 2013 National Council elections: We don't know where we just hid the Federal Chancellor, but please choose him! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The mushroom will find him!]] This is a proposal that voters are unlikely to follow. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, but not just the members of the Committee of Inquiry, please remember the last Thursday in the Committee of Inquiry, where we are the first and provisionally last witnesses to the major Eastern business of Telekom Mag. Martin Schlaef in the Committee had: He said, I think, 82 times: I quit, and yet we were able to harden the suspicion that Mag by presenting our proofs alone. Martin Schlaef is not a successful Austrian entrepreneur, but a successful strawman of organized crime in Russia. – This is the first point that we could harden alone in this survey! It is becoming increasingly clear that Mr Mag. Sleeping in the damage of Telekom Austria AG amounted to at least €500 million. And it is becoming more plausible and more likely that Mr Mag. Sleep this not alone, but in agreement and coordination at least with parts of Telekom Austria AG's Board of Directors at the time. This was not some group, but it is managed by ÖIAG as a property representative, and the Minister of Finance is behind it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's it!]] Finally, this is a group in every respect – from ownership to its future – in the interest of the Republic of Austria. And then after this almost one day's survey of the Lord Magi say. Sleep the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP: We don't want to know anything anymore, we don't want to know what happened, we don't care!Unknown term type: "%s".? If a strawman of organized Russian crime damages an Austrian company perhaps by hundreds of million €, then SPÖ and ÖVP say: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] We don't want to investigate this!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. May. Kogler: With the help of an Austrian bank!]] Yes, are you already on the side of the successful attempts of organised Russian crime to take economic and political action in Austria? What is your interest in not being investigated? Mr Schickhofer, Mr Pendl, what are your interests in protecting Martin Schlaff from parliamentary investigation, a strawman of international organised crime? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schickhofer]] What's the interest of the SPÖ? What's the interest of the ÖVP? Or, the next topic we were not allowed to investigate – and there it becomes easier –: the advertising stores at the top of SPÖ, Werner Faymann, Josef Ostermayer, ASFINAG, ÖBB – but not only that! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! We were in the committee at the point where Werner Faymann and his State Secretary Ostermayer have “excepted” companies such as Austro Control, the FFG, the Vienna airport and even the Vienna lines in order to produce products such as “Austria”. And the axis, the ad-corruption axis, Faymann/Fellner was not allowed to be further investigated in this investigation committee. Why did the ÖVP play here? – Probably because there are three points, the Ministry of Agriculture. The survey of the Minister for Agriculture alone has shown amazingly: not only that he does not know who the Farmers' Federal Newspaper belongs to – that is absurd! – but we could already present ourselves in a survey of a member of the government – and that is not absurd! – a dense and 100% proven network of hidden and partly illegal party funding of the Austrian Farmers' Federation by the Ministry of Agriculture. And suddenly we were not allowed to investigate any more! Why, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, did you cover the ÖVP here? And why do you perhaps do the favor of the year on a fourth subject of proof to the Freeman and the BZÖ? . We should have examined the key chapter of free foreign policy, namely organised citizenship. We should have investigated why the Freedom Party believes that only rich and, in part, not even criminal Russians can buy Austrian citizenship, but children who have partly arrived as babies in Austria, kindergarten, school, all in Austria, are “washed” Austrians after their division, instead of the Russians who buy citizenship! If someone has enough money, he also has the Freedom Party on his side of citizenship. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The liberal and orange citizenship bazaar – that's why it went! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you know that you cannot prevent the Enlightenment of everything. Our proposal is before we discuss the re-establishment of the Committee of Inquiry: Give the Committee of Inquiry the opportunity to fulfill the task that you all decided with us a year ago! Extend the deadline until the beginning of December. I can assure you that by then we will be able to examine everything and clarify it all and present a complete report to you, as it belongs to a self-confidence, fair and anti-corruption parliament. But if you think that you have too much to fear from this Enlightenment if you believe in SPÖ and ÖVP that the prevention of corruption is more important than the fulfilment of the parliamentary mission to combat corruption, then today is a political revelation. Then today you will not just say to this house: Yes, we said before the summer, we want the sharpest laws in Europe, but now we are on the other side again, now we are protecting Martin Schlaff from SPÖ and ÖVP again, the organized advertising corruption, the illegal financing of the peasantry and the liberal citizenship bazaar! I ask you one last, in particular you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: At a single small point, we have found that the liberal/orange Mr. Koloini in Carinthia explained in a survey that there is a very branched system of hidden and secret free savings books at Kärntner Volksbanken. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We wanted to look at this in the investigation committee. And now you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, are preventing us from investigating not only the liberal citizenship bazaar, but also the illegal financing of the Freedom Party. We won't let that happen! We'll give you the chance to extend the deadline. Otherwise, if you choose the wrong page, I'll just tell you one more thing: Friendship!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11028	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11053	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz, we have seen it in committee: You can do all this here – that it is stillless, let alone – but only in the protection of immunity! - Only by knowing what we're talking about. Neither this House nor anyone else needs to listen to all the opinions in the Committee for hours, some of which were not even accused but quite normal information. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You do the investigation!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What about Taus, Sundt, Cordt? Why aren't the witnesses being loaded?]] Whether this is an appropriate style, Mr Kogler, I doubt, let us put that up better. I have already said the last time I would like to look at your reactions if the other way round would be formulated. – This is really our problem or one of our problems. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to quote colleagues Amon right now, but we all know – you can read it, I invite you to do so: The Committee has been asked several times whether there is another question, and everyone has said: No, no, no, Soon we were outside the door, everything was different! Demands have been raised again. – These are our common problems. We are still standing on what we have decided together. [[Abg. Brosz: What is that?]] In a unanimous request, we decided: until 16. October. [[Abg. Brosz: That's exactly the one with the report!]] ==References== October! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All here are parliamentarians and professionals and therefore know that it is not always easy for five parties to find a common denominator and to reach a unanimous decision. It's not new! And those who have already been in several committees of inquiry know that it is always problematic and leads to tensions when one tries to combine different opinions to come to a common opinion or a report if you want. Ladies and gentlemen! I carried out a week ago – and this is the truth, Mr. Pilz: No defendant is treated before an Austrian court as some persons here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] I don't even want to know what a scream there would be in this Republic if that happened to anyone from your party. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who is blocking the reform?]] The persons who come to the Investigation Committee are not accused or accused, they are informers! It doesn't get any better if you confuse this continuously: We are a Parliament, we have the clear legal mandate to investigate in political terms how the procedures were – we are not a prosecutor, we are not a court! This permanent mixture is a problem! It's all like fog, it's all intertwined. In those cases of which we all know that the prosecutors determine that proceedings are running, let us work the justice! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I have confidence in Austrian justice. However, these are complex cases. One cannot constantly change one's mind, and this House has not deserved it either. I think we should try together – yes, Mr Kogler, is right! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You should have given the speech three days ago, then you would be 60 percent for the chairman!]] I do not wish it to you, but if it were the other way round, you would see how sad you really are. By what you often tell others! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the Greens.]] I'm not the defender of the informers, but that you treat these correctly and politely, you should actually know since the folk school. [[Call:No]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Since the folk school you should know this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] These are the problems we have with each other. And then still artificial excitement is not a good thing. You can do this very cool. I'm convinced that the courts will work everything out. Let's not make a mistake, ladies and gentlemen: All experts, but also all political groups, have acknowledged that this was the most successful investigation committee in history. [[Call the Greens, anyway!]] - That's him! Let's not talk to him bad! It will not be the case that everything in this Republic – up to the Constitutional Legislator – depends on the wishes of Mr Pilz. There won't be any. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We work on the basis of laws, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that we have achieved a lot together and decided months ago. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are acting against the mandate of the plenary! That's incredible!]] That is why I see no need to decide on an extension of the time limit here.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11243	Mr Amon is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11264	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would recommend, Mrs Glawischnig, to make Dr. Pilz appear more often. He's a really good advertising carrier for the green party. -Yes, that doesn't matter. [[Abg. Oillinger: But with you too!]] It has each party's representatives. You have yours, we have ours. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The good Dr. Pilz is a representative of the Greens – and that, I think, is remarkable, because the Greens are very happy to represent themselves as “high-ranking democrats”, as those who hold human rights particularly high – who make fun of people who are learning about them. But you know as well as I do that a very essential element of human rights is that everyone has a right to a fair trial. Dr. Pilz has made fun of an information person who has turned x-time because the survey has just taken a long time. He made fun of it, and he does not take exactly this fair procedure seriously. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is obvious that a person who has been accused is entitled to take action before the committee of inquiry. This is no reason to make fun of it, Mr Pilz. I'd like to tell you that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] They are also exactly the representative who makes it so difficult to think more deeply about the issue of minority law, Mr Pilz. [[Ah-noise with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does “thinking ” mean? We have an agreement!]] This is precisely the difference between your behaviour and the behaviour of the Greens in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Oillingers: You know them very well!]] They deal with the right-hand side of the information. They deal carefully with the sensitive files that exist. [[Abg. Oils: Yes! Yes!]] – You don't do all that! Your whole conduct in the Committee of Inquiry shows that after every survey – this is not at all your concern – there is your small standing press conference to get as fast as possible To present your picture of a deed. It's not about objective truth finding – it's not about you! – but it is a matter of making some cheap points to get the other parties to pick up stuff as quickly as possible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Thank God you are responsible for objectivity!]] [[Abg. Brosz: The truth is at the ÖVP!]] That is why you, Dr. Pilz, are not concerned with finding truth objectively. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It was your high-principled committee chairman who himself said that we would be done with committee work in mid-October. You said that yourself. Dr. Pilz, if we're investigating a little, we'll probably find a statement from you, where you said we'll be done in October. But tomorrow – we will have a little more time – we will still have to deal with this in terms of content. That we could not continue to work intensively in August, dear Dr. Pilz, was not the fault of the government parties. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where is the witness Taus? Where's the witness Sundt? Where's the witness Cordt?]] You have had this chaos to answer from the Greens themselves, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is a permanent Lamento on a five-party request, which you have decided here that we have a timetable for the deadline, which provides for a report to be submitted to the Assembly tomorrow. That's what you decided to do. That's why you've been a blackmail all the time?- Oh, my God! Well, excuse me, what was the agreement in connection with the committee of inquiry as a minority law after your division? What was that, Mrs. Glavischnig? Have you gone here and told the government parties, for example, that we only agree with the bank package if you sign a minority right here? Was that a blackmail after your diction? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You're wrong in remembering that!]] It is really incredible that the opposition parties can be torn into such a process. Of course, this was not an extortion, but it was a conflict, as is quite the custom of the parliamentary procedure. And that's why, Mrs. Dr. Glavisch, this request is not an extortion, but a five-party union. Five parties agreed on a timetable, five parties agreed on an end to this Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11449	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11470	Thank you, Madam President. . Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are now briefly discussing a request for a period of time or extension, as you might say. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I think this is wrong from the wording. It should actually be called: do not shorten. Because what de facto is behind this often quoted five-party request is a reduction. Therefore, the term extension is actually wrong. This committee still needs to meet now and for itself. Instead of shortening the expression, one could also take the expression off. This five-party rule was, of course, not an extortion, Mr Amon, I know. But the question is: What if it wasn't a compulsion? What would have been the alternatives to this Wednesday plenary session? – Immediate turning off! Please, we have no choice. If I can choose today if I get sick or die at the same time, I prefer to get sick and not to die right away. Since the summer, this has been happening through the entire committee of inquiry, since Mr Jarolim has been and has been replaced, and since Mr Amon has been listening more closely to the party line, since then, we have this very "constructive phase" as often referred to by the two government parties. This has also been referred to several times in the press releases as a model of success. And now I'm wondering, If this was really such a success model for the government parties, why do you actually turn it off? Why Extend You not this glorious phase of the history of ÖVP and SPÖ? I know, Mr Pendl said it once more: We're not the justice, we're not the prosecutor! But in addition to the criminal aspects – Mr Pendl, you should actually know – we have to examine political responsibility, and this has not been questioned on a number of issues. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] She could not be questioned, because only – I am taking the words of my colleague Pilz back into my mouth – Mr Mag. Sleeping as a victim when the defendant was questioned. Where, then, are the other witnesses who are not accused, who cannot constantly turn themselves away, who cannot say, I am not saying that now, but who must declare under the duty of truth? Where was the ad topic? – We had four people listening to section heads, and they didn't tell us anything. But those who could have told us something else, we didn't load. And come on. You don't ask again with any five-party requests, because – once again – you'd rather be sick than die immediately. So don't say that was the great friendship and the great satisfaction! Or: Telekom, shooter. Mr Schieszler still does not have his denunciation rule, he has still not been there. He could tell us so much about what happened. - But you don't want to hear him at all. Why – once again – shorten You're this supposed success model? Why is this place being discussed today about human rights which Mr Pilz is supposed to break? But Mr Klubobmann's head, in his speech yesterday, immediately had any accusations of mandates, without taking human rights into account. [[Abg. Head: What kind of accusation?]] First of all, you have said that human rights and everything you need to defend, at the same time you have violently attacked and accused a green representative. Why is everyone talking about a fair trial today, but we don't ask witnesses, we're always just asking the accused? The defendant may, of course, express himself in any court proceedings, but they do not do so with us, but there are also enough witnesses being questioned. The investigative committee does not ask for witnesses. What about minority rights? I know you're always hard on minority rights. How does that really look? How difficult is it for the ÖVP when we reveal their things, or for the SPÖ in a few things? Despite all of these suggestions that you have brought here at this point, you can't take it off, it doesn't take your officials off, and it doesn't take your voters, your members off, and you see that you suffer damage, the SPÖ has gone through the last weekend very bloody. You will notice it in the current surveys. And that is exactly why this “success model”, which you just call, now needs to be finally turned off, why not continue the deadline, that is your method. You can then take a look at the results of the election, what this has really brought you. Morally, it doesn't bring you that much, but quite the contrary: You're going to bleeding heavily!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11522	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11543	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have somehow developed my ability to compare through this committee of inquiry. - You are laughing, Mr Amon. No, I mean nice. I've got another football comparison. They really manage to coordinate, SPÖ and ÖVP, the government team, a set elf meter, a successful one To transform the Committee into an own-initiative, which will not only lead to political insidiousness, but will continue to express itself in constituencies or in protest votes. I really don't understand. Let's do this systematically, that's really not a problem! You have rightly said that I once said in the media that we will be done in mid-October, according to what I can expect from the government parties. I made the proposal, we do it thoroughly, at the end of November, beginning of December, so that we are finished in autumn. That would have been possible. It would have been possible to thoroughly update the East business, load Taus, load Cordt, possibly add additional people who know to, certainly Sundt, a key figure. That would have been possible, not a problem. We could have felt a little deeper on the tooth in the question of gambling. You didn't want to. To the ads: We would certainly have gotten the minutes of the hearings of the ASFINAG Boards by the public prosecutor if we had stayed for a longer time. And then really the confidence of the population in politics, in the self-cleaning process, in the polythygiene process of an investigation committee would have been possible again. I was really very personally interested in it, as a citizen, not as a politician. As a citizen and as a learned teacher, it is quite important to me that people take democracy seriously, that they have confidence in politics, that they participate in community life, engage in political processes, and not the terrain, the stage any figures, be they billionaires or millionaires, or other zampanos. That's what I want to prevent. And that's why, personally, the Committee of Inquiry, as an act of polythygiene, was really a personal concern to me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's why I also suffered from these tactical maneuvers. Surely the background is also that I am more sachpolitical. That is why I am now addressing the arguments quite specifically. Mr Pendl, yes, it was a matter of political responsibility, and it is a difference to clarify political responsibility or to prove legal investigation competence. I was always on my side to clarify political responsibility. And there have been many, many pressed, and we have not been able to load some essential persons. However, this is your political responsibility, now viewed differently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Yes, Mr Amon, clear, fair procedure. I am in favour immediately, and you also know that I have intervened several times in respect of human rights and the protection of individuals in their personal rights. There is also the need to launch a certain reform project here. But first of all, we must uphold a fundamental principle, and the basic principle is: If a committee is asked to clarify, reveal, retain political responsibility to produce a report on this matter unanimously, then the top principle for the Members working there, but not turning it around, shortening it, somehow suffocating it, and finally going out and saying, yes, we have gone to each other. No, that's wrong political style! That is why I must say once again that it is all so sad, because the basic concern and the fundamental intensification of this committee of inquiry, namely the Restoring trust, through your government behaviour, through your tactical thinking – that has been the self-terrorist anyway – has been destroyed, the chance has not been perceived. Unfortunately, we are now more or less in front of a shredded pile and unfortunately have no report either. And this is really a suffering chapter, a painful thing because of the work done by all the parliamentarians. We would have liked to have done all this. That is why we have once again the opportunity to put an orderly end to that by means of a deadline. It's necessary. Polythygiene is also an act of political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11631	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11653	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we support the Green Group's request for a simple reason: because – and this is already striking – the following has happened in this Committee of Inquiry, particularly from the SPÖ: As long as it was about thinking and hoping to do a general bill, Mr Cap, with black and blue-orange times of government, the Committee of Inquiry has always had time in the world. When it came to Telekom, there was a lot of time. We have also made it quite clear. When it came to the BUWOG, we had a lot of time. We have also made it quite clear. But as soon as it was a matter of clarifying the SPÖ painting, in concrete terms the allegations relating to the ad affair against Mr. Faymann, one has suddenly had very fast on the part of the SPÖ, one has suddenly had no interest in the Enlightenment. Even when it came to clarifying the eastern shops of Telekom, in whose center is Martin Schlaef, who also has a SPÖ seam, the interest in the Enlightenment was also coming to an end. In fact, this is exactly this shameful background that you have acted for party-tactical reasons and have thus withdrawn your maneuvers. The story is then also just at times and punishes exactly those who have triggered the whole thing. Because if a strategy failed and if a calculation did not go up, then it was the strategy, then it was the calculation of the SPÖ in this investigation committee. If one consistently acknowledges that one wants to clarify further, then of course one also has to extend this period. The Telekom East business is about hundreds of millions of euros of heavy transactions in Belarus, Serbia, Bulgaria, which are well-informed. And this is not the case with an information person who still benefits from the right to be released for this purpose. It is also necessary to load a Mr Taus, a Mr Cordt, a Mr. Ex-Bundeskanzler Schüssel, also an ex-Vice Chancellor Gorbach and many others, if you really want to clarify the backgrounds of these millions of transactions. The same applies to citizenship. In the ad affair, it would also have been necessary to load one or another person. As I said, the interest was then over very quickly when it came to the SPÖ itself. That we have always known for the Enlightenment, also in our own ranks, and that offensively operated itself, shows a simple view of the figures. From before- Painting FPÖ and BZÖ politicians or functionaries have been loaded a two-digit number, one by the SPÖ. You have approved one of the only ones, namely Mr Ostermayer, the Secretary of State, who, as far as advertising is concerned, had to hold his head in the committee for Mr Faymann. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, Enlightenment looks different! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In fact, as far as you are concerned, you want to keep everything under the spell. But, as I said, I also see this with some relaxation. Mr Pendl referred to the judicial system. I also rely on the judicial system to determine correctly. But I also rely, above all, on the power and competence of this Parliament, this House and the control force of this Parliament. I am sure that not only the BZÖ, but also the other opposition parties will make effective use of the many instruments available to control, even in the future, that at the end of the day it will not be possible to lock the most successful U-committee because it was too successful. This committee is closed because of too much success. That's the point. But that won't bring you anything. You've experienced it at the party meeting. You will see in the 2013 National Council election what the electorate considers to be what the electorate also thinks – and I would like to conclude that – that the only one who has said in the SPÖ will ultimately have to say that Werner Faymann is in charge of the Committee of Inquiry, that is, Mr Jarolim, who has been a political leader in the Committee of Inquiry. If you, Mr Klubobmann Cap, had you, Mr Pendl, had you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, been one of Jarolim's highly valued colleagues in the Committee of Inquiry, then there would have been a lot to spare you, some negative headlines and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany might have been such a disastrous result of just 83 percent on a party day.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11726	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from Mr Pilz, colleagues, the deadline set by the Committee of Inquiry to clarify allegations of corruption for reporting to 4. ==References====External links== I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This request does not find the majority and is rejected. [[15:38:13]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11762	I will resume the negotiations on points 8 to 13 of the agenda and draw attention to the fact that there are only three speeches on these agenda items and the next votes will take place. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11787	Madam President. Dear member of the government! Not present, but would still be fine. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Behind you!]] Ah, now arrived, Secretary of State. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: I was there; I did not ‘ get in ’!]] We will vote in favour of these government proposals. However, I would like to say a few things in particular, namely the double taxation agreement between Switzerland and Austria. To remember: As a result of the debate on tax havens, Austria has committed itself to introducing assistance and exchange of information on tax issues under the OECD Directives. At the time, Austria was on the grey list of tax havens. And the consequence was a law of enforcement, which subsequently formed the basis for further DBAs. Now a peer review was on the program in this context. Austria was examined in this context in 2011. Once again, the result was that a double taxation agreement had to be reformed. Why? – Because we had the suspicion at the time, although we agreed to this double taxation agreement, that it was overhastely formulated and left back doors open. That is why we have already called for an OECD representative to be present in order to clarify whether these model agreements are actually being fulfilled or not. In addition, this aid agreement has been further irrigated by the implementing provisions. It is therefore urgent that Austria should make a more sincere and convincing policy in the context of the fight against tax relief and tax havens than those we have experienced in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11843	Mr Hagen has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11864	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on the re-use of the former Austrian-German Community border customs offices is in order. I shall therefore vote in favour of this agreement. It regulates the continuation or re-establishment of certain customs offices as internal customs offices situated on the territory of the country concerned. Furthermore, this Agreement regulates the applicable legislation for the customs clearance and treatment of seized and collected goods. In my home town of Hörbranz – you all know this community from the Ö3 traffic reports – there is such a customs office. The rental contract by the Federal Republic of Germany is still running until 2024. It would be foolish to disband this and to set up a new customs office beyond and beyond the border. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment briefly on the tax agreement with Switzerland – although not on the double taxation agreement which is on the agenda today, I would have liked to ask Mrs Finanzminister something. I shall now refer it to the Secretary of State for you to know what you have done with this tax agreement with Switzerland, which you have interpreted as preventing black money. I illustrate this in two examples. The first example: Today a very fragile old lady made an inheritance in Switzerland 40 years ago when she lived there. This lady sold the house she inherited and placed the money on the bank in Switzerland. This is an old age insurance for them. And this money is now being used, she is treated as a tax refugee and is almost presented as a tax offender. This money has never left Switzerland, it is generated there And now you're cashing from this one. Ladies taxes on this money she inherited there. – Is it fairness, ladies and gentlemen? The second case: You know, I live near the border, Vorarlberg borders Switzerland. There are many older people there who have experienced the Second World War. With monetary union, when Austria joined the euro, many, just older people have come here and have constantly created a small savings account in Switzerland – in Austria already taxed money – almost as an emergency. And this emergency guy is now being criminalized by you. This money already taxed in Austria is taxed again. That's where I wonder where fairness is. Think again about these steps! Perhaps it can be improved, perhaps there is a way to get rid of this agreement again. But I can only reject this tax agreement, ladies and gentlemen. I think it would be necessary to take such examples into account in order to take up the draft law again, to change it again. I can only hope that the Swiss will reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11909	Mr Kirchgatterer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11931	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Especially the guests, very successful works councils of very successful Austrian companies, welcome to the Hohen Haus! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My previous speaker brought the example of Vorarlberg and the municipality of Hörbranz, which has a positive effect on agenda item 8. In Upper Austria too, we have a location with Suben, which has a particularly high-quality freight transport structure – road, rail, motorway, rolling land road. TOP 8 is also very important in this regard. On agenda item 9, Mr Haberzettl, I can only underline the fight against cross-border black work in cooperation with the Federal Republic of Germany. This is a very important point that is gaining more and more importance. Agenda items 10 to 13, the agreements with Georgia, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, Switzerland and Cyprus comply with the new OECD standards. Ladies and gentlemen! All these points show that international cooperation makes sense in the interests of Austria, strengthens employment in our country, strengthens domestic businesses and is important for our further positive development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11974	It now has Mr. State Secretary Mag. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e11995	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In addition to what Mr Kirchgatterer has rightly held, I come again to the various points that have been summarized in this debate. One is that control of undeclared work, namely the measures we can take to combat undeclared work between Austria and Germany, is greatly improved by an agreement that Austria and Germany are better informed and that the persecution is also possible across the border, both as regards illegal foreigners employment or the violation of labour, industrial or tax regulations. It is therefore better to pursue black jobs. This also helps to prevent the abuse of social benefits by people's black jobs. In Germany, the financial control Black labor is responsible, in Austria the financial police. That is why this important agreement has been presented by our House, but it has, of course, also been involving the Minister of Social Affairs and Labour and the Ministry of Social Affairs. This is a major step forward in the fight against undeclared work. We will continue this path and now gradually conclude similar agreements with the other neighbouring countries in order to be able to achieve this improvement there too, and thus to implement bilaterally effectively what, unfortunately, is very fragmentedly regulated in EU law. The other thing is that the former customs offices, which are stationed at the border between Austria and Germany and Austria, have not been able to stand there and continue to be used since the removal of border controls and due to the Schengen area, namely, the border customs office Suben, which is to become an experimental customs office, where customs clearance is to take place in the future as a service for the economy, especially as a freight and distribution centre. This required legal support, because the old law of 1955 did not reflect it properly anymore. The double taxation agreements here today bring the implementation of OECD standards to better exchange of information, including to combat tax evasion and other tax evasions; they are therefore again an important step towards combating illegal financial flows. To Mr Hagen in the near future. They may have messed up a little fundamentally: The settlement agreement with Switzerland, which is now to be taxed retroactively in Switzerland, applies only if the money is not legally taxed in Austria. In other words, someone who has already taxed it will not be asked to cash back again, but he will also get the proof that he has already done the taxes. Only those who have spent the money in Switzerland to “save” a tax – under quotation marks – or, in order to say it clearly, withdraw taxes will in future also have to make its tax contribution in Austria. So the case you described is not possible at all – or you have understood the fundamental misunderstanding. However, it is a reasonable agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12054	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's conclusion is not wanted. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on the re-use of the former Austro-German Community frontier customs offices in 1893 of the supplements provided for in Article 50(1) B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the fight against cross-border undeclared work and illegal cross-border lending, to be approved in 1894 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1) B-VG. I would also ask for a sign here in the event of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and Georgia and Additional Protocol amending the Convention on the Functioning of the European Communities, of the one part, and the Republic of Georgia, of the other part. On 4 April 2005, the Commission decided to grant authorisation in 1882 of the supplements provided for in Article 50(1) B-VG to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxation. Here again, I would like to ask for a sign of approval if it is agreed. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Second protocol amending the Protocol on 25 February. Agreements signed in Hong Kong in May 2010 between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China to avoid double taxation and to prevent the circumvention of taxes on income and property in 1890 of the supplements provided for in Article 50(1) B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol amending the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one hand and the European Economic Area on the other. In 1974 in Vienna, agreements signed between the Republic of Austria and the Swiss Confederation to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes, to be approved in 1896 of the supplements in accordance with Article 50(1) B-VG. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask him for a sign to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Cyprus and Additional Protocol amending Council Regulation (EEC) No. Agreements in Vienna signed in March 1990 to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes, to be approved in 1897 of the supplements in accordance with Article 50(1)(B) of the basic Regulation. Here again, in the event of approval, I would like to ask for a sign of this kind. – This is accepted by a majority. [[15:53:46]] 14. Point Report of the Main Committee on the Government Template (1909, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Government's request for a popular survey in accordance with Art. 49b B-VG (1918 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12157	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12189	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on the popular survey on the possible abolition of compulsory military service, there is for me an objective and a political level. At the objective level, I was very surprised that the SPÖ can agree to this question. What is this question in which an alternative is described as a professional army? – The central question on the 20th of October. January 2013 will go to this country is not “vocation” or “not profession”. Mr Darabos, if you do not yet know: We already have a professional army. We have a professional army, to which there are additional presenters and an additional military component. No one is discussing the abolition or maintenance of the professional force. The only thing we are discussing is whether, in the future, all those who serve in the military security policy, that is, in the federal army, do so voluntarily. It is a single question, which means: Voluntaryness on one side, compulsion on the other. I am sluggish about why the SPÖ and the Minister of Defence were unable to put this only reasonable question at the centre of the discussion. This will also be the problem in the population survey on the 20th century. Be yes. The problem will be that there will be an immeasurable confusion in the population if we are not able to clarify as much as possible in scientific discussions. We are in a completely bizarre situation. The politicians in particular of the ÖVP, but also those of the FPÖ, stand up and say: Military force must be maintained because we need civilians because we can no longer guarantee the care and red-cross operations if we do not force young men to be trained in combat tanks! No one would normally trust to face the Austrian population with such a senseless argumentation. [[Abg. Clickovits: That's just you!]] – Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and also of the colleague, who calls himself misleading security spokespersons of the ÖVP! You know exactly what those present most often do. I have experienced it in the Bundesheer-Reform Commission, where a truly competent and personally friendly and transient chief of general staff called at ever shorter intervals on the evening of a joint meeting of the Bundesheer-Reform Commission: Ordinance, red wine! And, of course, the ordination was one or more presenters. The service providers are used everywhere. One of them wash dishes and after six months are excellent dishwashers. The others serve and are waiters of a degree of training that is not found in the private sector because they can serve and salute at the same time. [[Abg. Newborn: Real professionals!]] – Real professionals, as Mr. Officer says here. The objective level is not that. We almost all agree that this is an absolute impotence and that it is unreasonable to remove more than 30,000 young men each year from their training or from their careers. Everyone knows that! You also know about the ÖVP and you also know about the FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's about political change. ==References====External links== January Wins: Is there a black and blue success against every reason, or is there even a vote against the Minister of Defence in favour of a proposal that is reasonable in the core? We will not only discuss the matter in the future, but also about how, for example, the Raiffeisen Group is trying to buy this vote. Mr Veit Sorger is suddenly the president of the “Pro Wehrpflichtung” Committee, who has just disbursed in Carinthia at the Hypo Alpe-Adria.- Oh, my God! Does he at least invest his fast hypo gain in the “Pro military” committee, or does he do this on Raiffeisen’s costs? Raiffeisen Holding General Erwin Hameseder was a professional officer for twelve years. Now he is at the head of Raiffeisen Holding and says: Raiffeisengeld pure in a pro-ÖVP campaign, pure in a federal army-back-in-the- past campaign, because I want it as a military general. These are the interests, and we will talk about raiffeisen, we will talk about how a group abuses savings, cooperative property and others in order to promote black and blue in this Republic. That is why the ÖVP and the Freedom Party are doing! You don't think anything about the military obligation, but it's a question of taking a last chance of a black and blue political success at the beginning of 2013. We in the Corruption Investigation Committee have examined long enough black and blue successes from 2000 to 2006, and that is why there are also important political reasons for the abolition of all compulsory services, a black and blue success on 20 June 2006. ==References====External links== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12250	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12272	I would like to predict that we have been having a debate on direct-democratic instruments for months, which is likely to continue, and now, of course, with the popular survey, there is a possibility of using a direct-democratic instrument, coupled with the political commitment that, whatever the outcome of the popular survey, it will ultimately be implemented. After all, this is something that, I assume, should actually welcome all five political groups in the House that we have chosen this way, because the discussion about self-understanding, commission, doctrine of Austrian security policy, the Austrian federal army has been moving us for decades. That is why I think it is right now to try to involve the population. I think the question is an honest one. In the discussions it has often been so far, that some have said: The German army in this form only exists more so that it passes on civil service in this form. At least sometimes, when I think of some purchases such as the famous platers for the Marchfeld, which have a maximum crushing of the asparagus there, but otherwise have no sense of security policy, or when I think of the much too expensive Eurofighter. With the safeguarding of neutrality or observation in the airspace, if unknown enemy objects approach and penetrate the airspace, it has been justified that one needs these sinful Eurofighters. But I don't want to repeat now, we've already discussed and dealt with this x-time. There has never actually been a clear concept in that sense. Sense crises in the federal army, in the officer corps, in the suboffensives, often not a clear self-understanding and above all the self-esteem, how often have we discussed this? I have already said this today how often we have discussed in the event of postings, in foreign operations: What's the equipment like? What's the education? Is the safety guaranteed by the young men? What is the counter-proposal? – The counter proposal is a professional army. The question is therefore also correct: Professional/Social or Civil Service/Werkpflicht? Many of those who had to carry out military service have always said: These are lost months of my life, I have nothing of that! I have been able to serve the officers and officers, I have continued training in the field of installation, have been driving around as truck drivers! It was only a fraction for the actual core tasks of an army, and this is now more evident in this discussion. In find, this model proposed by the Minister of Defense, this professional, will lead to a different self-understanding, to a different sense of self-esteem. It will lead to the fact that, when foreign operations occur, they are really more professionally occupied. This will also increase the security aspect in Austria, because it is more professional. It will also be more professional in the area of disaster protection, where only a fraction has been in use so far, because most of the volunteers, the volunteer fire brigades, who had to deal with professional firearms. As far as the social year is concerned, the weak years are now coming, there will be too few people in civil service, they will be poorly trained, only six, seven, eight, nine months active, and badly paid. Social year, on the other hand, means good pay, good education, men, women, young, old – what more do you want? You kept saying: We don't want to do that! That was always the language of the ÖVP. Then came a bowl, and key has compacted it at all in the reform commission with Mr Zilk as chairman. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] “General” Pilz was there, others, all have contributed, many of you, many of us. The steps have already been taken in the direction of Profiherer. Now this has developed, now we're just about to finish, and now you're saying no. Because at some point Mr Häupl said this at an unfavorable time, you are now in favour of military service. This is like Zwentendorf back then. You're always for nuclear energy, but because Kreisky has made a vote, you're against nuclear energy. That's the logic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I was also against nuclear energy, I have always been against nuclear energy, but for the professional I have been for ten years, for at least ten years. And especially good I like the social year. That's really a good consideration. You have a problem and are being picked up. – You will still be in 10 minutes, not in 30 minutes. [[Abg. Wöginger: Who should report? Who?]] Quality, professionalization also has its price. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, it's clear! Where?]] - Don't shake your head! At the expense of security, at the expense of social services, this means that fewer and fewer people will be doing civil service, and then you will have to wait 30 minutes, as Mrs Mikl-Leiter said. [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool! You don't believe that!]] Then we're right where we don't want to go! Then I have to say: Men, women, boys, old people in the social year – isn't that wonderful? - Yes, paid, exactly. [[Abg. Wöginger: Then paid!]] There is a pressure in other countries. In addition to Greece and Cyprus, we are the only ones who have a military obligation at all. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm gonna grab your 30 minutes, Mrs. Minister, but you have to see it differently with the 30 minutes. It will be the same, and I have to say: I don't want you to need the service once and it matters whether you're being picked up in 10 or 30 minutes. I don't want that, neither do I. This is an aspect that is important. A force in the federal army, a profit team, that will then be highly specialized people and not any right-wing extreme rambos with a red cloth on the head. That's absurd! There will be highly specialized technicians, the economy will “trap ” around these people afterwards. [[Abg. Wöger: You're in Parliament today!]] You know that very well. It's a question of the project. In France there are long times contracts, three to five years, and if they prove themselves, three to five more years. In the UK, they are largely already entering the economy at the age of 45. It's only with us in Austria that it says: Have we always had, never worked! It has always been wasted money, the young people have always been wasting their lifetime, but because it has always been so, let's stay with it! And why? – The SPÖ doesn't want it anymore, we want it! - That's absurd! The same applies to the opposition. The blues were also once for a professional army. I can show you the entire party decisions and also say: So, fingers down, bag – and changed. That's it. I'll tell you something. This is about the fate of people, about the army members who are already professional and who want to see a sense in their activities, and it is about young people and their future planning and life planning. It is about security, it is about the protection of disasters, and it is also about social service – the word “social year”. We should all finally think about it and work to ensure that we reach this change in the People's Survey.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12381	The next item is the list of Members. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12403	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Dear Mr. Self-defense Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The ongoing preparations for the population survey show: The coalition scrap around the federal army is perfect! Today, Darabos, in her lean budget speech, has drawn up a powerful wax of water. The ÖVP grants the voluntary professional clear rejection and bunk with it. In the past, the political positions and arguments were changed in a short time, and now you, Mr Klubobmann Cap, have to think of branded speeches as a professional army. In return, for example, the ÖVP claims that disaster aid in the aid can only be dealt with with with with by recruits. – This is a cheap and wrong argument that we can easily disprove. People recruiting, basic military servants can only support, but professional soldiers are trained in advance for any kind of disasters in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The professionals in the army are immediately available and ready to use. Only professional soldiers, of course, guarantee immediate assistance in the event of possible disasters. That's one of the core tasks of our federal army. In other areas too, ladies and gentlemen, such as foreign employment, more and more professionals are required. Therefore, we have assessed the situation with experts and have come to the conclusion that the abolition of compulsory military service is a security gain for comprehensive national defence. I emphasize: The abolition of compulsory military service is a security gain for comprehensive national defence. [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we are in favour of the democratic instrument of popular survey – just not in this form, as it happens here! We are missing essential, namely the clearly defined objective, which a federal army of the future must handle in Europe and in Austria. We need the Security Doctor to make a serious assessment of the situation. This has been rubbed by you for 18 months. The Security Doctrine is important to serve the population as support for their decisions. Citizens need to know what long-term consequences may occur in the respective voting behaviour. That is why we ask the BZÖ to provide timely information to all the voting persons in Switzerland as a serious decision-making aid. Our request is as follows: Request Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on ensuring that the public is informed before the public poll on the introduction of a professional force or the maintenance of the general obligation to do so The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government shall be asked to provide to all persons entitled to vote in good time before the public consultation on the introduction of a professional force or the maintenance of the general military obligation, under the direction of the President of the National Council, in agreement with the parties represented in the National Council, on the basis of the model of a ‘vote document’ used in Switzerland before plebiscite.’ I'm looking for broad support. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The political loser of this popular survey is already firmly established, and this is the arrogant, removed Austrian People's Party. She wants Also, in the area of comprehensive national defence, hold firmly to old structures. This ÖVP has been playing a huge chance today. She's hurting Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12496	Mr Liste's request has been properly put in place, although the title is not correct. It is clearly a motion for a resolution and not a request, but since the House here in the National Council is not voting on headings, but rather on texts, it is, of course, permissible. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12597	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12619	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! In view of the debate so far, it is certainly difficult for our television viewers, in particular, to take a picture of what they were talking about on 20 June, because of the worst party policy polemics. January, if we take the decision today, we should vote for it. Mr. Dr. Pilz, Mr. Dr. Cap, I would have expected a little more of you than the “common sensor” you have shown on this question, something other than cheap party political polemics, something different than to bring down the basic defenses, to represent as mega-senseless slaves, something other than the Austrian federal army, which is a professional army, simply to shut down. Just about you, Dr. Cap, I would have expected something else. We have professionals at the Austrian Federal Heir. We have been overreacted to young people with our basic military servants, whom we need to train well and which we want to include in the mixing system. And we have a militia that's supposed to be much stronger. That all of this works, Minister of State, you bear the responsibility for it! It's a shame you didn't comply with the lawgiver's order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) “Are you for the introduction of a professional army and a paid voluntary social year?” is this a question. “Are you in favour of maintaining general military service and civil service?” is the second question, and I hope and am actually sure that this question will answer the majority of Austrians with Yes. Why will she do it, why should she do it? – The majority will do so because the Austrians are sufficiently responsible and know what they have to do with the Austrian federal army, which is now the most manageable, because you know that it is there in the event of disaster, and because they know that the people who do not want to serve the Austrian federal army on the weapon want to be active in a variety of other areas, and then, voluntarily, they will be doing a useful job for society in the social field through civil service. These are the principles that motivate us to further reform the Austrian federal army. Yes, Federal Minister, the Austrian Federal Army needs reform steps – reform steps which, unfortunately, you have not implemented! You have the ÖBH reform in your drawer, Federal Minister, you have reform approaches in your drawer, as we could improve system maintenance accordingly. - All this has not been done. [[Abg. May. Schickhofer: But we do not want to maintain and improve the system, but to strengthen the power of use!]] Mr Federal Minister, I expect you to report objectively now in your responsibilities. What you're doing now is hard on the abuse of tax money. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You really use posters today that clearly apply for the professional army, your political will. That's not all right, Minister! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] This is about tax money that needs to be used properly. The Austrians have a right to be informed. In any case, we will do everything and cooperate with all the forces in this country, who are good will and who want to develop the Austrian federal army, so that we can have more security in this country again. I beg you, stop talking bad about the federal army! His employees don't deserve this, but the Austrians don't deserve it. I hope, Minister of State, that you will receive our 1 400 recruits on 26 May. October will be praised, not send the message and call their will, their personal will, to serve Austria as a mega-senseless service!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12716	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12737	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not about disputing the Austrian federal army, but about finally implementing reforms, which are careful, sustainable and long-term. What the advocates of the military duty here and in the media coverage, which also includes all at home, try to explain, is based on completely outdated, traditional and outdated systems of national defence and internal security. The advocates of the military duty adhere to a system that drags young men out of the working world, from the working world and out of training to serve coffee, weeds, or play chauffeur. All this has to be done. The proponents adhere to a system aimed at tank struggles and border operations, although Austria is part and good partners of the European Peace Union. These are all old systems that are no longer modern, and it is finally time to actually implement sustainable and caring reforms in the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The compulsory obligation is by no means the right way. The popular survey on the abolition of compulsory military service alone will not create this reform either. This, in itself, very good instrument of direct democracy, can and should be a good and important way to support and contribute to the reforms. But – and this has been demonstrated by my previous speaker, Mr Slickovits, once again – this popular desire is not about the future of young people, it is not about the future of military service and civil service, nor about the expansion of direct democracy, but about coalitionary political calculation, about a pre-election campaign that is conducted on behalf of Lower Austria, on behalf of the head of state Erwin Pröll, so that it also has a topic to go in the right direction here. And the Federal ÖVP, including Minister of the Interior Mikl-Leiter, participates in this game. It's not about the future of young people, it's about coalitionary Hickhack and party plots. The Minister of Finance has put this on the table today quite clearly and clearly. She said quite clearly in her budget speech that she wanted to maintain this old, outdated, traditional system. Should the people in the referendum be the model of She will do everything she can to prevent a new model, she will certainly not agree to any additional costs, she will do anything to prevent these additional costs. That is, the ÖVP is completely blocking, both at the national and federal levels, once again blocking the burden of young people. And the social system should continue to be safeguarded by young workers – a social system that has earned more, which has earned a real labour market policy that has earned well-trained people, good and life-savingly paid people. All of this can happen in my opinion, and all of this should also be the subject of a popular survey, but the question of popular survey should be another question. Because fact is: It's about military service. And the only right question would be: The abolition of compulsory military service: Yes or no? Everything else comes after the popular survey. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Civil service is defined as a replacement service in the case of refusal. That is to say, the public survey does not need to take place on civil service, nor does the people have to vote on civil service, but only on military duty. Everything else organizes itself. The question of the government template is therefore completely unclear. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Because that's the puddle's core!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12841	The amendment tabled by Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill is sufficiently supported, is also properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12908	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e12929	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! There is a certain shadow of the intensity of the project we are debating. No reasonable person in the Republic doubts that the passionate opinion of Dr Pilz for the introduction of a professional army is only an intermediate step towards the complete abolition of the army. Everyone knows that, too, my colleague Pilz has never really fought. That's how it should be. The colleague who spoke before me is still in a certain state of idealism, but he is not likely to be really viable within her group. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] But it is true that we are already witnesses of an extremely interesting historical phenomenon. I quote the unthinkable relatives of the Social Democrats, the FSG trade union Korecky, who is so, who is not worth anything to you, is he? [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Darabos doesn't want anything to do with him either, with Mr. Korecky!]] [[towards the Federal Minister Mag. Darabos]] So is he an Olympic tourist or a party day tourist? You don't know that anymore from your side? [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Darabos.]] Korecky, after all, a part of social democracy, which is at least observed outside social democracy, says: For 100 years it has been a concern of social democracy to create an army “out of the people for the people. ” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is extremely interesting that, due to a rumour of Mayor Häupl, who saw that he was not going to be happy with the election of Vienna, and taken up by the president of the German Chancellor Faymann, who had been punished by the comrades, the Federal Minister of Defence who was behind me, who held the obligation to “meddle in stone”, turned to the professional army within a week. I guarantee that we understand this continuity of which you certainly don't understand anything [[Abg. Petzner: This is your party program!]] [[Abg. Petzner: You don't even know your own party program!]] It's completely unnecessary that you make grueling intermediate remarks that don't do the thing well. The fact is that the question put into space by the FSG trade union Korecky – or his historical memory – is, of course, directly related to the concept of duty, which is reworded as a forced service in an ancient Communist way. – All that is a national duty is then considered to be a compulsion if it becomes unloving. In any case, this is an aspect of the service which the State requires of adult male citizens: to do military duty on the one hand, and to refuse or refuse to provide civil service. There can be no doubt that these phenomena of service to the public are a part of the society as a whole, including civil society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Petsner: FPÖ party program from 1998!]] [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: (in the direction of Abg. Petzner) Some things have changed already!]] If I am talking about the use of military officers for activities that are not directly related to the military service, it should be remembered that no one here complained that last week's Gardebataillon base attendants were helpful in the establishment of the breast cancer event in Parliament, who brought in, set up and removed the necessary facilities through three days. The military service as a whole, as a duty to society number one, to be available for national defence, to be used for disaster, is an essential element of Austrian civil society. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Petzner: That's incredible!]] What's incredible? [[Abg. Petzner: How you argue this is incredible!]] Mr President, your inability to pursue thinking processes and to be thinking witnesses of the one spoken here has already been demonstrated several times. It is extremely unnecessary that you do this today! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Summary: I am looking forward to the fact that this public survey is taking place, because occasionally it must be over with the grievances at the expense of the state. I promise you that in this People's Survey you will be called for the maintenance of the general military service, so that – probably and hopefully – a fair discussion and a fair effort to launch the necessary reform steps in the army will take place. In this sense: 20. January is a good day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13106	It has Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13127	Madam President. High house! This with the good day has already been said by an ex-minister who is now somewhat unmistakable in the media. I should like to thank you in principle for the discussion, even if there are different opinions in Parliament. We've known that for a long time. But I would like to thank Parliament for the hope that, after this debate, it will be possible to conduct a popular survey on the future of the Austrian federal army to the future of the Austrian military system. It is an important signal of democracy. You can not only talk about direct democracy, but you must also live it. The population is reasonable in this question, and I would like to make this quite clear today, because it has been asked, and there, even with various political parties, again and again, whether the population is at all powerful enough to answer such a question. I'm sorry, it's about the security policy of Austria. The question is simply asked: Profession and "voluntary social year" on the one hand – general military service and civil service on the other. This is acceptable to every Austrian. To that end, I would like to thank Parliament for being able to conduct this popular survey. In fact, other European countries have not done so. We are, as far as I know, the first to present this important question to the people. And that's an important process. If you assume from the starting point that 27 states have already switched 21 to a professional army, you can say in principle: It can't be that bad! [[Abg. Scheibner: Does this apply to NATO, if?]] We are only more in the “unification” – under quotations – with states such as Greece, Cyprus – for certain reasons: Fear of Turkey – Malta – Switzerland is not an EU member as much as I know. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I do not know if you need further assistance in EU history, but Switzerland is a neutral state that has nothing to do with the EU. But by the way, if you already ask this interim question: There are two neutral states, Ireland and Sweden, which have gone from the general obligation to military service to a professional army. Moreover, this was also the experience that we have taken from Sweden and Germany, which has also encouraged us to take this step towards popular survey with the recommendation: Profession. I'd like to answer an intermediate call here: We have had some bloody conflicts in recent months, for example in Libya and Syria. Do you know what armies have been used there? [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, the guilty!]] – Armed forces! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not an argument!]] So that's not an argument against a professional army. The Syrians shoot at their own people, and the Libyans did. I would also like to address this briefly in order to pay tribute to history. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We now come to the subject in total: Yes, there is a need for reform in the Austrian federal army. We found him together. There is a five-party decision on the Austrian Federal Hero Reform Commission 2010. And we have also clearly defined – and I believe there is no contradiction here in this respect and no other opinion in this House –: The threats have become others. The cold war is passé. The Iron Curtain has been torn down thanks to God. We now have other threat pictures. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, Darabos!]] We have international terrorism. We've got cyber attacks. We have the failure of states. We have to deal with disasters of an international and Austrian nature. And we have peace missions to deal with. By the way: In the case of peace missions, only professionals are already in use in the Austrian Federal Army, namely professional soldiers or military soldiers, as the new system would provide. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Miliz soldiers are compulsive!]] On the question of the militia raised by Mr Maizovits: It's a special challenge you're putting on me here. My predecessor, Minister Platter, abolished the military exercises. I brought her back in. I would like to stress this very clearly once again. I've made sure the militia can re-exercise what has not happened under Platter. It's got to be stuck here, too. I would also like to write that to you in the main book. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the BZÖ.]] Until recently, an ex-minister has been sitting here, Martin Bartenstein, I thought he'd been sitting here so far. He was also a member of the Cabinet Schüssel, and at that time a policy was made that went towards the professional army. You should tell people that too! The ÖVP has actually taken the preparation for this professional army, but is now adopting it. Okay, yeah, it is. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: How did you deal with the military duty?]] But you have to say that as it is: that the ÖVP has also carried out a swivel here, and this swivel has gone in the other direction – precisely for quite comprehensible party political reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Clickovits.]] We currently have 60 percent system holders in the Austrian Federal Army. We have cooks, we have waiters, we have drivers. These aren't basic defenses with military uses. And we have the following picture in the postponing of these basic defenses: When we talk to them, when we analyze how the ground defense service was, those who have been used in the military field say: Yes, you can gain something from the ground defense service!, and those who have been used as a system holder say: No, that didn't make any sense! Unfortunately, this is systemimmanent. We cannot use the basic defence workers differently because otherwise we could not fulfil the tasks that we have to fulfil. We have 1,800 ground defenses that are to be considered cooks, we have 1,500 in use as chauffeurs and only 115 as tank grenades. [[Abg. Maij-Weggen (PSE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I'll prove it to you! They misinformed the population!]] These figures are true, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Clickovits: That's wrong!]] That is to say, we have to ask ourselves whether we really need to “happify” 23 000 young men with six months of forced service – under quotation marks – or not. By the way, birth rates are falling. The General Staff has calculated that if we fall under 21,000 basic defenses, we will no longer be able to carry out our tasks. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Clickovits.]] The General Staff has calculated this, under the leadership of the Chief General Edmund Entacher. I would like to stress this very consciously. That means we have to make reforms here. And from my point of view, these reforms have to be set in the direction of a professional force, because we are better able to carry out with a professional army the tasks that we set ourselves – disaster protection, foreign intervention and the God, thanks to very theoretical case of national defence. This was also confirmed by the General Staff, in a model that was calculated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Ikrath.]] A word to civil servants – not my area –: It was said, as I also heard in the discussion with civil society representatives, that for a “voluntary social year” 1 400 € per month is too much. - Excuse me, a civilian earns 300 €! If you find a volunteer who is bound for a year and who doesn't have to be 18, 19, 20 years old and a man, but can also be a woman and can have an age up to 50 years old, and you pay him a decent wage of up to €1 400 and give him the opportunity to find a job afterwards in the social field, and then say that's too much, then I find the cynical, I say quite openly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Coming to the conclusion, I would like to mention the fear of people – perhaps also of the ÖVP – that: The old model has 12,700 professional soldiers. In the new model it would only be more than 8 500. In return, instead of the 1,600 time soldiers we have, we would bind 7,000 time soldiers to the German army for a period of three, six or nine years. This ensures refreshment and also the social-political blending of the Austrian federal army. We would set up a proficiency of 9,300 soldiers who, over a period of time, commit themselves to the Austrian Federal Army, also receive money for it, namely € 5 000 premium per year. This would also ensure that all social strata are represented in the Austrian Federal Army. And in return, we could drop the forced service for ground defenses. Who's afraid of this system? This system is calculated. This system has more competence than the current system. We would have more professionals in Austria. We would then have more competence in the Austrian Federal Army. We had more motivation and we had no compulsion. That's why I'm going to be on the 20th. Yes, of course, for my model. And I would invite everyone in this house to look at this model carefully.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13319	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13340	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If it were so that an important question of security of the country would also be made the basis of the instrument of direct democracy, because, in addition to the political decision of the representative representatives, one would also want to involve the people, then this would be a good thing and support. And if it were so that we would have to go about how best to fulfil the tasks of the security policy and the security of Austria, and then we would consider and weigh the advantages and disadvantages of compulsory military service versus a volunteer army and then all of us would come to a decision together and then implement it, then it would be optimal and then that would be our responsibility which we have here. It's about the country's security! It's not about party-political games that get through there again and again, it's not about who's on the 20th. Mr Jann, which party and which opinion, will win, but it is a question of what basic path we will take in the future in order to ensure the security of the country and its population. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But this is clearly the case in this debate. That's exactly why we're really hard on ourselves. We are basically for the instruments of direct democracy, but it must not be an excuse if politics cannot agree, just as it is now in the Federal Government, that we say: We cannot agree, so we ask the population! And then you don't ask – what's bad? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hübner.]] An instrument of direct democracy cannot be an excuse. An instrument of direct democracy can be a complement to democracy, but cannot be a way out of the dilemma that we have a federal government that can no longer agree on anything. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And the people are also not told what the result is, because you are now asking for a way, but the goal is not yet clarified. We once said that we need a new security doctor first. We've been working on it, but the work has been done in the sand; Mr Fichtenbauer knows. Then they say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, We know what we want with this army, and then we think about the way we choose to achieve these goals! What is the result, Mr. Collegue? You know that? - No one says that. And it is just as honorable to honestly argue for the maintenance of the military duty and to work for how honorable it is to argue for a voluntary system. You should not play this out and discredit each other, but you have to say what the result is. As far as a general obligation as it now exists, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party is concerned, you also have a wretched degree of responsibility. They were the ones who, without necessity, reduced the obligation of military service from eight months to six months. And then, of course, it's true: There's no future for the Miliz. And: Not the basic defenses are pointless, but the system is pointless to train someone for six months – and now I leave out the 60 percent system holders, but only those who are trained in the military – and after this six months of training I send them home with a handshake. Where they're finally trained, where I can use them, I'll send them home! This is not a sensible system, either for commercial or for security reasons. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you are in favour of general military service, you also have to say that you have to extend it, then you have to take action for at least eight months of military service. But you don't dare to say that. If you're for a volunteer army, as well as I am, then you have to say: The current system does not work. An official service right, where someone is in service at the age of 18, enters the Austrian Federal Army and knows that he will have his job there for up to 65 years, although he is not needed for so long, that is not the system we need. And, of course, we need attractive incentives, we need to create transition opportunities to other areas of public service, we also need to finance retrainings and training, it has to be attractive to pay and also the training service. All of this must be done before the general obligation of military service is abolished or, as we propose, suspended. And finally, it must be clear that a system based on voluntaryness necessarily includes the international component, so if one divides the most important point of military national defence into an alliance – whether this is the European Union with a guarantee of assistance or whether it is other security alliances such as NATO. Whether it's likely or not, but it's never impossible to rule out the fact that your own country is being attacked militaryly, and if everyone else supports us in solidarity, then you can switch to a purely professional system, because then you don't need so many own soldiers in this case. But if you're not ready to take this step, then you need to This capacity to grow and then, of course, the question of compulsory military service has to be asked again. We say that we are in favour of this alliance component, and that is why we are also in favour of a professional implementation of a volunteer army with professional soldiers, as we now have it, and a volunteer military. And we should be proud of it – and there are also some here, as I am, the military soldiers, voluntarily! – and we are proud that we are in Service of security of the country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This should be supported, it should be promoted and not said: It doesn't work! And in the end, we are talking about asking the question of this public question, which is necessary, namely this basic orientation in security policy, and from that the question of the military system is derived accordingly. There is no such thing as the question of how you bring them in here now. The information, I fear, will not be objective either. They leave the population alone with a responsibility which cannot in fact be taken over by this state of information and this question. We are therefore taking a step here by introducing the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this would be a useful question, where it is clearly explained what is going on afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13471	The amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13565	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13586	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome it on 20 July. January 2013 comes to a popular survey, for one reason: because every day that is still going on until then and where the population is not spoken accordingly to lead the way to the government, the coalition. I say this quite consciously so. Of course, there is no question at all: If a government coalition in coalition formation has excluded such an important issue or has not seen it as a joint project, but at the same time it must be noted that the requirements for an army that has changed to the defence of the country must also be thought into the future by a minister of defence who takes his office seriously, and make proposals as to how he best meets the mandate of the Republic to lead this place. So if it is not possible to find a non-fractional common approach with the coalition partner here, then the instrument of the popular survey is a Good instrument to get light into the dark here, although at the same time it is promised to look for a common path according to the findings obtained from the results. Then it's going to start right, ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== The reform has not yet taken place in January 2013 for or against the respective point of view. And here, Mr Maij-We are already a little bit sloppy, and I am saying this very consciously in your direction. Mr Scheibner has already said: We have not really debated the security strategy yet. Although the Council of Ministers has already decided to do so, we are not in a position to discuss this together in Parliament because the EIA has a few problems because it finally wanted to interpret something into it, which was not the case in the Council of Ministers. So we have the situation now, we have the population voting: Obligation – yes or no?, without defining exactly what the army should and must do in the future. There is already a demand for policy, perhaps we will have to lay down a chancellor until then. [[Deconstratetive applause with BZÖ]] Perhaps we can work together, Mr Slickovits, to tell the people about the date of the vote, what the army will have to do in the future. Federal Minister! Of course, we will do everything we can to support your efforts. But we already have a request. Both heads of the coalition, Deputy Chancellor Spindelegger and Chancellor Faymann, have emphasized that they will accept the result, with no regard to whether the participation was as large as you wish, or a little less, and take into account the will of the population. That's important, because if we're after 20. Januaryen again to discuss together whether it makes sense to lead the German army in the future as we then make it up together, then we have a problem with credibility. Then one will be able to explain this to the population very difficult. But I am very optimistic that the pledges of the party leaders here become law. And then, as Parliament, we have to contribute to the fact that we then, together – and I hope for a broad consensus – define what is to be expected for the future army, on the one hand for the army staff, who also need to know: How long can I take a common path in my future professional design?, and also in relation to it: What will be the future of our commitments, which we all accept anyway, with regard to civil protection, to foreign operations? But that also needs to be defined with regard to the strength we want in the future. The population will not be left alone with the decision when, in common, each of us from his point of view – I am thinking of the parties too – to bring to the people why one is for one or the other. I think we have it on the evening of the 20th. It is a very, very important common task, namely the security of this country, to take note of those who have taken note of it. Our department of defence itself, but in the end we do not want to question the defence of the country, but we are all on the defence of the country. But at the moment we do not have a precise plan in which direction it should go. The Federal Minister has a detailed plan; he will contribute to it. And others also have a plan. Who will win the “competition” with the population? – From today’s point of view, this is not clear. But it's clear: The result must be binding on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13661	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13683	Madam President. High house! The question of security is undoubtedly one of the most important questions at all in Austria. But as we are dealing with this matter, this is nothing but a shift of responsibility. We already heard it today: In other countries of Europe, this question was decided in Parliament. However, they are depressing responsibility because you are not able by the Federal Government to bring about material solutions, and in the end – that is your “strategy” – prepare the pre-election campaign for the 2013 National Council elections. - That's the only background. And once again the German army must, once again the question of military duty must come up to make this cruel party policy! That, ladies and gentlemen, is really disgraceful! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In reality, as the former Minister of Defense Scheibner, Mr. Colonel List, or I, as Lieutenant Lieutenant, have already formulated, you have to prepare a proper defense doctor and ask: What does Austria even want? Do we want to remain neutral as it is in the law? Do we want comprehensive national defence or do we want to join a European alliance? – This is the first question. That also depends on the size of our federal army. Furthermore, the questions would have to be asked: How much equipment do you need? Which locations do you want? Only when this concept stands will the question come to an end: What do you need to do? – 12,000, 15,000, 20,000 professionals, with a professional mill, for example, or do you need 50,000, 60 000, 70 000, 80 000 or 100 000 who are recruited due to the general obligation of military service? That, ladies and gentlemen, would in itself be the approach that every general officer will confirm to you. You, Minister Darabos, do it the other way round. You first ask the question: Obligation or professional? This is completely wrong access! It's like you'd decide before you bought a car: No, I'm just driving diesel, but then, for example, buy a VW that needs super petrol. Then what do S’ do? - Then you can't drive it! Again: This approach is fundamentally wrong and purely party-political! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] – Mr Auer, I am coming to speak to you and Raiffeisen. If there is no military obligation in 21 EU countries and in these 21 countries that also works – with cancellations or with additions, depending on – and nowhere the social system has collapsed, I wonder why this should not work with us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have to think European once! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] There you have to look beyond the edge of the plate! Maybe you'll find appropriate models that work. I can tell you the following: We from BZÖ want the best security for Austria, but not only on a plaque as you carry it from the ÖVP: The best for Austria! We want to know that de facto implemented. But you certainly can't do that from the ÖVP, because you actually misuse the voluntary associations, just as you do from the FPÖ. They all hated each other, so according to the motto: Whoever is against the obligation to military service is against social associations, is opposed to the support of charitative events et cetera. That is not true, we know very well that this works very well in other countries of the European Union. – What you do is that you oblige young people to perform a forced service, which, in principle, has almost nothing to do with the military. Seventy per cent of the groundmen are system owners, but they have nothing more to do with the military. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] And half of the population is not included because it is female; there are also constitutional concerns. My question in the direction FPÖ and ÖVP: Where is the alleged youth party at the FPÖ? Where is the Youth Party at the ÖVP? If you rub young people from FPÖ into a system where the young people sit down to 60 percent, even 70 percent of the time pointlessly – that is to say the highest officers in the federal army – without proper use, then that is unbearable and unacceptable! [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: At least a situation where young people still come together! Let us be glad that there is another institution where young people come together!]] Coming to the end: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, prepare models, inform people neatly and then make a referendum! But please do not just make a referendum, because there are many topics on which you could vote in Austria. A referendum costs about €2 million, and if we agree, we could add four, five, six questions. That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you want that from SPÖ and ÖVP, then ask the people and make the 20th. January 2013 to a day of real direct democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13816	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the very situation that I have already tried to prevent in advance, namely that at this point, in order to pre-empt my decision, I do not allow this amendment, for a reason which has also been communicated in writing to all members of the Bureau. I know there was a back and forth. I follow the legal basis of the legislative and legislative services of the Parliamentary Directorate. It is not a systematic context in terms of content. Since the principles are to be maintained that amendments and additional proposals should have a systematic context – including legislation – and we must act on the basis of the general provisions, I have also decided to do so. I also announce – so that we can also anticipate this – that we need to deal with this question in detail in the Presidential, too, because, of course, I want to avoid such misunderstandings in the future. I claim that the legal and legislative interpretation by means of legal and legislative services is in the interest of all matters of the minority and opposition to be interpreted here narrowly and not far, but I remain in my decision today. We will be in the President-in-Office's office once again. I have already seen that Mr Scheibner now wants to express his opinion. – Mr Scheibner, Member of the European Parliament, on business treatment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13857	Madam President. I make the request, which you already follow, to debate and decide in full this question of law in the Presidential. I would also like to ask, but I assume, with little prospect of success, that you still allow this request, because it is not only my legal opinion, but in the comment on the National Council's Rules of Procedure of Zägernitz, it is expressly stated here that the President or the President has to examine the approval of amendments or supplementary requests not in terms of content but only in formal terms. Additional requests may be made if they relate to a law which is subject to negotiation. And that is clearly the case from our point of view. This is not a law, but a popular survey, and we simply want this supplementary request to make further questions the subject of this popular survey, which is therefore absolutely acceptable in analogy to the relevant provisions. I would also like to point out that if this is not allowed to happen now, it will be in the main committee. It still allows for this amendment – then it has prejudicial consequences, because I can recall many templates, up to budget-accompanied laws, where, if you are of this narrow legal opinion, as you have just formulated, you should not have allowed these supplementary requests, where you simply put some paragraphs in a law, and then, in the Committee and in second reading, you brought with you many additional proposals, other materials which have not been in any context related to the matter under discussion, but which have only formally affected the same law. It is precisely this formal context that we see here, too, and that is why we believe that this amendment or add-on proposal should be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13899	Ladies and gentlemen, I could now present you with a whole list of evidence of the opposite of the previous admission and non-approval practice. Of course, in the meantime we have studied intensively. All this does not benefit from the fact that the legal opinion is divided and a decision is to be made from my side. I have met them for non-admission, and I assure you that we will once again deal very thoroughly with this subject in the presidential. I cannot resort to a similar situation in the matter of popular survey, as we all know, since it is the first time that a popular survey is to take place. So: I have not approved this request. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e13935	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Before I go into my speech on the first People's Survey in the Republic here, I would like to point out a statement from you, Federal Minister Darabos: They compared the Austrian army, the Austrian soldiers with the army in Libya and Syria. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Incredible! Incredible!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: This is a lie!]] Mr Darabos! The Austrian Federal Army cannot be placed at the same level as the Federal Army of Libya and Syria! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We are a rule of law, we are advocating the Convention on Human Rights, we are advocating the European Charter of Fundamental Rights! We certainly don't compare ourselves with that, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: So cheap! Do you really need that?]] The Austrian Federal Constitution states: ‘Austria is committed to comprehensive national defence.’ And on top of that: “Every male citizen is defenceworthy. Citizens can volunteer Service in the federal army as soldiers ().” And: ‘Whoever refuses to comply with the obligation to do so for reasons of conscience and is released from it shall have the duty to provide a replacement service (civil service).’ These provisions are discussed in the Austrian Federal Constitution. And only for this reason, Mr. Federal Minister, because in 2010 three days before the Vienna municipal council election of the mayor of Vienna, from now on there is another party opinion in the SPÖ, everything was all different. [[Abg. Blow: He didn't use anything!]] Since then, no stone has remained on the other side because some stones have become butter with you. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] Mr Federal Minister, this is the reason why we stand here today and question the people with direct democratic means, because we have reached a decision of principle in which the Federal Government has no unanimous opinion. And when, if not, when it comes to fundamental questions of the Republic, do we benefit from the means of direct democracy? This is precisely a question of principle. This allows us to reduce the gap between the representatives and the representatives. We must close this gap between politics and voters, that is our mission! And that is why I am pleased that we are voting on this popular survey today. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I agree with Mr Scheibner that this is not about party policy, but about the system. That's exactly what it's all about: What system do we want in the future? Do we want military service and civil service in the future, or do we want to have a professional army with a voluntary social service? This is a very clear question which the Federal Government has found and which it is presenting today for the vote on a People's Survey. There can be no compromise on such a question. There can't be a little military duty and a bit of a professional army, but there can only be one defiance – or there can be. That is why it is not a weak decision, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, but it is a structural question that we want to clarify, and we want it to be decided by the Sovereign. Because who's afraid of the boss? Who is afraid of the boss here?, I wonder in the whole discussion. The boss, the Austrian Sovereign, can decide, and this boss will be on 20th. You're the one who decides. And I am pleased that he has this opportunity and that we are thereby also enriching representative democracy with direct democratic means. That is why the Austrian People's Party has presented a democratic package which we want to bring together to strengthen direct democracy together with representative democracy: for example, facilitation of popular desire and petition rights, more citizens' concerns such as questions to the members of the Federal Government directly in Parliament. To strengthen these elements is to be done, ladies and gentlemen. We must close this gap between the representatives and the representatives! Fear is not a good counsellor in such a decision! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The core of our democratic package is therefore: to inform, discuss and convince. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever wants to have an army from the people for the people and a civil service with the greatest benefit for Austria, is right on 20 June. Let's go!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14048	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14071	Mr President. High house! It is very interesting to have followed the debate so far, with what arguments or non-arguments are being used here in particular by the SPÖ. If this is the only argument, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, that everything in the federal army is so terrible and that the wasted time is, I ask you: Who could have changed it? The answer can only be: The Federal Minister could have changed it. But he didn't. On the contrary, he has even gone here and, from the time that Mayor Häupl has called for the military duty to be abolished, torpedoed this project, namely the attraction of the ground defense service, and has thereby done a great deal of damage to the German army. But that's what we've been doing since 2007 by Federal Minister Darabos, who has been a minister since the last few years. But one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: We liberals are not afraid of the population, we are not afraid of the people! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the contrary: We are looking forward to carrying out this popular survey because we are sure that the Austrians will make the right decision, not least because they have recognized that the opinion swing, the SPÖ zigzag course for purely electoral reasons has taken place. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Federal Minister Darabos has proved to be a supporter of the mayor of Häupl, or, as has been said, he has deliberately tried to block the meaningful attraction of the federal army. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are pro- and counter-arguments, there is no question, and I am grateful for the fact that there have been material contributions, such as those made by Mr Scheibner, for the fact that up to now this debate has not taken place in this House in the field of security policy. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is always pretended as if we had no professionals, as if everything were as terrible as if the federal army were not working at all. But there is hardly a meeting where defence policy is not on the agenda, and we do not thank the German army if that was the assistance in the east of Austria, whether the efforts are foreign, where Austrian professionals, Mr. Federal Minister, professional soldiers and military soldiers, stand as their husband, whether the aid is in disasters and accidents as in Styria only a few months ago. This is the performance of the Austrian federal army, which is the performance of the officers, the sub-officials, the batches and also of the recruits who, despite this chaos and uncertainty policy of Federal Minister Darabos bravouros, are serving Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are very clear: ==References== January 2013 no experiments with the safety of Austria! A clear yes to the German army, to the military duty, thus also to civil service and thus also to a proper security which Austria and the Austrian population deserved too!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14133	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14154	Mr President. Mr Darabos! Minister Mikl-Leiter! High house! Unfortunately, you have not received any arguments from the previous speaker, ladies and gentlemen, but only this one stop from the liberals, when it comes to evading the Minister, although this minister has very intensively taken care of the interests of the German army and has carried on improvements. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: What is a ‘unit stop’, Mrs. Colleague?]] And that you, Mr. Kunasek, as the German army's employee, are taking such bashing here, this is really a pity and a rejection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you want to kill someone again?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Today we decide on the People's Survey text for the 20th century. January 2013. This population survey, this great coordination with the Austrian population, is an important decision. Some previous speakers have said that the population would not understand the two questions or need much longer explanations. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: You don't even understand that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you already have to put your trust in the population, that people in Austria know for which system they choose: for a voluntary system or for a forced system. To make this important decision is to create the people, ladies and gentlemen. ==References====External links== Mr President, I should like to make a point of order and decide on this point. This is a great responsibility because it makes a far-reaching decision. And it is assured that the outcome of the survey will be implemented. The fact that we bear this great responsibility together with the population should cause us to engage in the discussion of material arguments and not with one another with polemic statements. [[Abg. Street: When do you start with it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Bring one!]] I would have liked to make two factual arguments. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Please!]] I am glad, my colleague, that you listen, that is, I think, very important. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: It hurts in the ears, but yes!]] The Austrian population knows that it has a great responsibility and will make an important decision. And that you smile hard about it here, I think it's very, very bad. It is currently the case that, due to the compulsory military service for young men, their training and careers are interrupted. It comes to an incision in CVs. We keep talking about how important education and training are for young people in our country. We must therefore face this problem and see that there is no longer any such interruptions that these cuts will be removed. In the event of the abolition of military service, there is voluntary access to the Austrian federal army. All personnel managers in companies know that voluntary access brings greater motivation. A greater motivation increases the performance of young people and thus also increases the performance of the federal army in order to be particularly well equipped for the tasks. The other voluntary decision made by the model presented by Mr Darabos is that one can voluntarily choose to make a social year, which can lead to a reorientation and a reorientation with a proper payment. A voluntary decision brings a high motivation and brings important improvements also in the social and health fields. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: And let the system crash!]] Motivated and interested people are important for the Austrian Federal Army and also for the social and health sector. Ladies and gentlemen! Values of Austrians! We are convinced that you understand the questions and you will make the right decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14305	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on the main committee's request for a People's Survey, 1918 of the Supplements. To this end, the following amendments have been tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues and amendment by Mr Scheibner, colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the amendments mentioned in the order in which they are submitted, and then I will vote on the main committee's request for a People's Survey. Debates of the European Parliament If you agree to this amendment, I would ask for a sign. – The application does not find a majority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner, fellow Members. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the main committee's request for a People's Survey as amended by the Committee's report in 1918. I would like to ask those Members who are voting in favour of the committee's motion for a resolution. – This is accepted by a majority. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on ensuring that the public is informed of the facts before the public survey on the introduction of a professional force or the maintenance of the general obligation to do so. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The application does not find a majority. Rejected. [[17:16:33]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1903, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law, which amends the Labour Law, the Land Labor Act 1984, the Labour Constitution Act, the Labour Contract Act, the Workers' Protection Act, the Foreign Employment Act, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Construction Workers' Allowance Act and the Construction Workers' Bad Weather Compensation Act 1957 (1947 e.g.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1769/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, ladies and gentlemen on measures against precarious lending (1948 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14401	We come to points 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Doppler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14428	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Agenda item 16: Borrowing. The loan work is very booming. Lending workers work across all sectors, from the hospital to the cleaning industry, even in the National Bank, temporary workers are employed. 2 to 3 percent of all self-employed workers, about 80 000 people, are already employed as temporary workers. And every fifth job offered by the AMS concerns a rental company. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Originally, the rental workers were intended to cover job peaks in companies. The rental workers are usually cheaper and their service relationship can be dissolved at any time. What is particularly disturbing to me here is that the companies pay the costs for temporary workers as real-time and not as personnel costs. I'm sure that's not all right! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where are rental workers used very often? . Very often they are used where particularly dangerous work is to be done without being trained accordingly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! According to § 135 of the Industrial Code, in the event of gross infringements of labour law, the concession can be withdrawn at any time, but until now, I believe, the concession has never been made. There is, of course, a great deal to be asked about unemployment in temporary work and the continuing training fund. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We are not satisfied with this proposal, we certainly do not agree with it in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14477	Next speaker: Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14499	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very sorry that my previous speaker has here signalled that this very important improvement in the situation of Austrian temporary workers and temporary workers is not accepted by the Liberal Party, because this new legislative act, which has become necessary as a result of a directive of the European Union, means that the situation of workers employed in temporary work in Austria will be greatly improved. About 75 000 Austrians are in a lending relationship. It can be put to the fore as follows: That's not the kind of thing that ever happened. There are many people who have a very nice job, who are doing well. Lending workers are very often faced with a wide range of discrimination, and I am therefore very glad that this government template, for example, makes it clear that discrimination is prohibited, and that now it is also ensured that temporary workers and temporary workers, who have often faced racist discrimination, sexist discrimination in companies and who have often failed to do so simply because of their situation, are opposed to such discrimination. Both the person who leaves behind and the person employed by the worker or the employee are taken into account. – A good and important step in the right direction. What is also very, very important to me is the fact that in the future the transferor is obliged to inform at the latest 14 days in advance when it comes to the termination of the employment in a company and the rental worker has already been left to work for more than three months, that the employment of this company will be terminated. This is crucial, therefore, because it simply ensures that colleagues can plan much better. To conclude: It also provides for the creation of a fund where workers can also consume skills measures in the future. On the one hand, this benefits not only workers but also the companies in which these people are employed. For me, however, it is also an important step in the direction that, after a further qualification, these people have more opportunities in the labour market. I am very grateful to the competent Federal Minister for the preparation of this government proposal. It is a good, right step in the right direction to improve the situation of temporary workers in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14541	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14562	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Up to 100 000 people are employed in the temporary work sector, so the industry is constantly growing. The number of temporary workers has tripled over the last ten years, and the number of companies operating for the temporary workers has also increased steadily. That sounds good a priori, a growth industry, but everyone who knows a little bit about it knows that the conditions there are extremely unsatisfying. This is primarily due to our laws that create framework conditions that definitely make temporary workers into second-class employees. In addition, even the existing laws are unfortunately very often ignored or deliberately avoided by the rental companies. And against all of this, far too little is done because our control structures, both in terms of competence and resources, are not sufficiently equipped. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that these problems exist not only in Austria, but also in the EU directive, which we are supposed to implement here today or take the decision to do so. In the run-up to this implementation, there were months of negotiations with the social partners, and one thing became clear: Unfortunately, employers are not interested in it – not a bean! – that there is also little improvement for workers who are actually discriminated against. Unfortunately, this is also the cause of the fact that, despite the fact that the trade union is certainly committed, this result is, at the end of the day, very thin. I'd say it's a disappointing result. For years, this has been the first opportunity to discuss really intensively the conditions of the industry, possibly also to improve something, and employers have been formally danced around both the negotiators and you, Minister Hundstorfer, and Mr Mitterlehner. Finally, the result was a mini package, and even this mini package was fought by the employers. They wanted to prevent this in the last second, although the negotiations had already been completed. I think that's a chuzpe, and we can't let that happen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I would have expected more courage from you, and also from the ÖVP, for I must say that there are decisions of the ÖAAB which are very clearly addressing the shortcomings in the industry, and there are demands of the ÖAAB that go well beyond the present presentation. [[Abg. Wöginger: Well, that's something, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] I know, Mrs Csörgits and Mr Muchitsch, that you have already said or will stress again the great success of this proposal. I also think – unlike the FPÖ; we will also agree – that the good steps are being taken there. But you and I, we all know that this will not solve the really big problems of the industry. Last year, we Greens have been very busy with all of this, together with experts, trade unions, including those concerned, and have drawn up proposals that are available here today in the form of an extensive package of applications. That is why I would also like to make a formal amendment to the amendment, to explain it and to address some proposals in detail. The first point is the usual wages. We demand that the rental workers be paid usual wages, i.e. the company-specific supplements, special payments et cetera. If this is not the case, hire workers de facto are still cheaper than the parent workforce. This means that wage dumping is, as it were, justified in the current legislation. I am also quite sure that this scheme does not correspond to the implementation of the EU Directive. Second point – for those who know the industry a little bit –: We have a massive problem with the common solutions around standing times. In other words, it is very common that a common solution should be established immediately after the end of a deployment, but where the employee is persuaded, yes, I would say, often needed. The trade union says that 80 percent of all agreed resolutions take place under such circumstances. The problem is that employees often have massive income losses in the short term, because they change from regular income to unemployment, and of course we, as taxpayers or public authorities, also take part of the entrepreneurial risk, because, so to speak, the entrepreneur, who would be obliged to continue to employ under the collective agreement, will be transferred precisely these costs to the public. I think that's absolutely not to be seen. Sure, this fund is going to do something, but we don't think it's enough. We therefore demand the immediate ineffectiveness of such consensual resolutions if they take place immediately after the end of an operation. Another point is the 14-day rule, which in itself is a good idea, but there is already a bit of a sign-bourgeois implementation, because we know that the rental workers industry is not one that strictly adheres to rules. Now there is the requirement to inform 14 days before the end of the operation, but you have not provided for any sanctions or penalties or damages in the submission. Will they stick to it? - I'm pretty sure: no. Ladies and gentlemen! There are still so many points, the speaking time is almost over. An important point is the punishment. The penalties are now being increased, but if you look at inflation only since the last increase, it was higher than the current increase. That is to say, even with the current increase, we have not yet reached the intention of the punishments of original 1988. This is an absolute expression for us. We have therefore made the proposal, similar to the social dumping law, that the penalties should be calculated per employee in the future. This is fair and would at the same time bring a significant increase, because it is now, as it were, per case, not per employee concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! It is still about strengthening the works council rights, which is already relevant, but so to speak, not essential in detail. One important point is that we know that, as it were, renting is not only used to cover the peaks of orders, but that there are increasingly also companies that are economically good, which are going to gradually replace the regular workforce with rental workers. We think that this needs to be pushed forward – by the way the ÖAAB sees it again – and we have therefore requested that the number of temporary workers in companies be limited to 10 percent. Another important point, which Mr Doppler has already mentioned, is that in the balance sheets of companies that employ temporary workers, these appear only under material effort. We want to change that. We want to see transparency and believe that this can counteract the transformation of ordinary employment into temporary employment. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Furthermore, I have already mentioned that the existing laws cannot, unfortunately, and will not be adequately controlled in the future, if there is simply a lack of resources. This is particularly problematic in an industry with many misunderstandings. We therefore make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be at least a first step, and after this report we could start to think of a new control structure. Ladies and gentlemen! That was a lot, I know, a lot of proposals and arguments. [[Abg. Neubauer: That was very good!]] I think we have the problem that fixed jobs are gradually converted into rental jobs, and we also have the problem that we continue to have laws that make temporary workers second-class employees. We can't take both of them! Three quarters of all temporary workers are massively dissatisfied with their work. I don't wonder, I want to change that. I want all employees in Austria to have fair conditions. Unfortunately, the rental workers in our country need much more than this government template offers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e14665	The two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and the amendment, as explained in the key points, which is distributed because of its size. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15003	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15024	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schatz, we are pleased when you have read the ÖAAB proposal. Yes, it is true, with this law, some demands relating to rental work are fulfilled, and therefore we welcome this law as well. Borrowing is an important instrument, including the coverage of tips in the businesses, and of course we must continue to develop this law. This proposal clearly improves the protection of workers. I am concerned to say a few words on the labour market as a whole, because I believe that we are doing too little. We currently have a very well-functioning labour market with a current unemployment rate of around 4.5 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Rent workers off?]] We lead the EU 27 with it. We have the lowest youth unemployment. It is now easy to get started, that is, we also have to take action on what we are doing. It is important that people really have employment in this country to this extent too. If we compare this with the previous year, we have around 50,000 more employees, and this is certainly an important basis, including social peace and prosperity in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is actually being changed with this paper? First of all, an EU Leighwork Directive will be implemented. The Social and Vocational Training Fund is being introduced in order to avoid unemployment in this area in order to prevent standing times. The 14-day pre-announcement period will be introduced and a non-discrimination ban will therefore not be allowed to take place against employees, and it will bring about a wide-ranging equality between leavened workers and regular staff – in the area of pay, working time, holiday arrangements, it will provide access to discounted canteen food, means of transport and operational childcare facilities. These are important measures to ensure equal opportunities for temporary staff. There is also an increased integration of employees into the workforce, equality between workers in the field of safety at work, increased information requirements and mandatory compliance with the high Austrian standards also for foreign workers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a very important step – Mrs Schatz, I would like to stress this already – which is being made by this law. Of course, we will have to look at this in the future, evaluate it and, if necessary, of course move forward further development. That's not a question. But the rental staff – and that is what we also recorded in the ÖAAB key request, because you mentioned it – must be transferred to the regular staff after a certain period of time. Finally, I should like to take a short look at the previous debate. Mrs Schatz, you have also spoken about wage dumping in connection with this law. In the previous debate, including in the context of military service, there is no military service, there is no civil service anymore, about the replacement model with the €1 386 for a year, about an employment relationship among the organisations where civil servants are currently employed, for example the Red Cross, hospitals, the disabled facilities, and the old and care homes. In my company, at the Red Cross in Upper Austria, we pay a basic wage for a rescue aneist – where I work, Mr. Neubauer – so we pay a basic wage of €2 100. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is your business?- Oh, my God!]] Now, according to this model, someone should be hired – a paid volunteer service is, in my opinion, a contradiction in itself – with 1 386 €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I am Chairman of the Works Council for 1,600 employees. I can't agree. [[Mr Haberzettl and Mr Mag. Honey.]] Civil servants do not have an employment relationship with us, there is a question of employment. If you are talking about wage dumping, then not only unilaterally, so you also confess to it in the whole! I have this request to conclude.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15104	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15125	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, My previous speaker has made a number of points in the law, which are certainly in order, which also represent improvements. We also welcome these, such as access to canteen food or access to childcare facilities, but we will not agree to the law, as has already been said, because structural shortcomings are still present. We currently have an unemployment rate – and the Federal Minister will certainly improve me with the exact number again – of about 25 600 temporary workers, which is about 11 percent more than we had last year in unemployed temporary workers. And we know very well that, of course, with the so to speak, the economic crisis, the temporary workers will again be the first to become unemployed. Therefore, it would have been useful to make a law that would really help this group of persons or lift up injustices. Now it is in this law – this can be seen as a positive one – that, if an end to this commitment is to come, the rental worker needs to be informed in good time – but if that does not happen, there are no sanctions. So this law is half, I believe that it is missing in the truth clear solutions. That's something that's only half answered. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The next thing we see as a problem is if, immediately after the termination of the employment relationship of the temporary worker with a company, the employment relationship with the temporary employment firm is also resolved. There are virtually no control options, and that is going on and on. That is, this abuse has not been revealed in truth to this day. There is also – and that has already been said by one of the previous speakers – the story with the effort to do so. If I don't count costs for rental workers as personnel costs, but as a material effort, we know very well that it's just going in the direction that companies want to save structurally and pretend to reduce staff costs and therefore reduce regular staff and take up temporary staff instead. This cannot be in the sense of this law, please! That's where you've got to sit. That hasn't happened until now. We'd really like that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A few words to the Fund, which is now being set up: There is already a fund for temporary workers, and it has already been shown in the past that those temporary workers with the lowest qualifications have also made the least use of the training offers from this fund. Even the Federal Chancellor's Office has criticised the fact that nothing will change. It is therefore not quite clear why this should now be carried out in this way. In addition, it is still planned that this fund can provide support not only in training but also during unemployment. The aim must be to prevent the unemployment of temporary workers. With this law – that is reluctance – you just promote it. That is, it is now also the case that it is precisely rental companies that should do this. You should be In this way they will lose the jobs of their low-skilled workers, so to speak, and they will continue to train them. In other words, it will not encourage the temporary employment firm to provide additional skills for the low-qualified staff. That means that this is a very, very gross abuse in this law. But it was interesting – and that confused me – when the colleague Csörgits made himself here and said that the temporary workers were so exposed to racism. This has confused me because the Federal Minister in the Committee has told us: In Austria there are 957 rental workers who come from abroad, and 860 of them are employed by a single company in Vorarlberg. – I can't quite imagine that, it doesn't fit in somewhere. If this company works so awfully, you should create extra sanctions for this company. Therefore, everything in everything: As long as these structural measures, these structural improvements for temporary workers are not given, we will not give you our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15196	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15217	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that there are workers' redundancies that we need a labour market law simply demands the labour market. It is also true that rental workers are of course a welcome staff to reduce job peaks, and that regular staff is replaced by rental workers. But in principle many companies have hardly set up a large quota of employees, but mainly recruit them after they were employed for some time as temporary workers in the company. A problem, but we will hardly be able to deal with this through a law, is that this sector is first affected by a break in the economy or by rising unemployment – that is clear; that is what it is now. If a company suffers from an economic downturn, then first the people who work as temporary workers will have to leave the respective company. But what is necessary is that one simply creates a equality, that one eliminates these differences between the parent and temporary staff, and that is now happening to a large part with this new law. It will now ensure equality with the common workforce of workers with regard to remuneration, working time, holiday arrangements, access to occupational welfare facilities and information on job openings. The information requirement will also be improved in this area with regard to workers' protection in respect of workers' and workers' establishments. It is also positive to note that the Fund also fulfils these useful tasks for labour market policy reasons. The funds for this have already been raised today, namely that, above all, few qualified persons, who have on and on themselves the most standing times, have taken little advantage of it. But these too have the opportunity to receive their grants from this fund. In general, this new law has not yet reached the end of the flag rod, but in any case it creates more rights and more Equal opportunities and is definitely an improvement in the current situation. That is why we will also give our approval to this new law.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15259	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15281	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! I can only agree with Mr Dolinschek's words. I do not want to beautify certain things now, but I do not let them talk about how it was done, for example, by the colleagues of the Freedom Party. The fact is: With the new directives, the amendment to the Labour Forces Act is very likely to improve for temporary workers in Austria. The amendment is also a further step in the implementation of measures against precarious lending, as requested by the Greens by colleagues and as included in the proposal for example in item 16 of the agenda. The aim of the novelle is of course – quite clearly – to close the gap between temporary workers and regular workers in their different claims regarding industrial and social security technical matters. This is also important, because fact is: From the original economic point of view, from the point of view of economic policy, namely that loan work should cover job peaks, we continue to remove ourselves. Each of you, ladies and gentlemen, certainly knows an example where temporary workers have been working for years in the same company, with the same employees and there is a permanent transfer. That is why it is important that many temporary workers have the opportunity to be treated as a regular worker, even as far as the claims are concerned. For all those who continue to receive peaks of orders and who are then the first ones to be dismantled when economic collapses occur, it is important that this social and continuing education fund be financed from 100 percent of employers' contributions from 2013 onwards, because it is precisely this fund that enables interested temporary workers to be financed by means of further training measures and that higher qualification is also taking place. This does not promote unemployment, but, on the contrary, we are putting an important focus on continuing employment and also on higher education. We have practical examples in the area of business agreements at various levels, as mentioned by our colleague, in terms of rental workers, where a quota of temporary workers is practically agreed by means of a business agreement. We are also focusing on this issue in future collective treaty negotiations, at least in our sectors, and there is also the Health and Occupational Care Act, where a 15 percent quota is accordingly defined. It is important that this issue is dealt with further. It's perfectly right: In this case, we have certainly not reached the end and the goal, but the fact is that this novelle is an important contribution when it comes to not playing out permanent workers and temporary workers against each other. This novel is a real sign and an important contribution to it and goes in the right direction. Thank you to the Minister of Social Affairs, his department and his staff for this innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15332	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15353	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to bring in two or three more thoughts. It is no question that we have a number of problems with this sector, and with this innovation we are trying to finish another piece. We are also one of the few countries in Europe that have a collective agreement for rent and temporary workers. The great neighbor has no collective agreement, nor any other neighbouring country. We're here, I think, very well secured. Although it is now presented in this way by the quantity structure, it is currently only 2.8 percent of all Austrian employees in the field of rent and temporary workers. In peak periods it is 3 percent, over the annual average it is 2.7 percent, and 2.8% – only for the ratio calculation. That is why Mrs Schatz's request goes empty, because the federal state with the highest share of temporary and temporary workers is Upper Austria, and the highest level there is a maximum of 3.7 percent. [[Abg. May. Honey: What does this have to do with the application? I don't understand!]] – You wanted to install the 10-percent clause. [[New call of the abg. May. Honey.]] - Yeah, it's never going to work out. In the whole of Austria, a maximum of 3.7 per cent of all employees are temporary and temporary workers, and Upper Austria is also the Federal State – Mr. Deputies Schopf will say the same – in which we have most of the business agreements with the limitation of temporary and temporary workers. [[Abg. May. Honey: Sony has had 60 percent rental workers in Salzburg! A company!]] You know, that's a problem, how to explain it. We have a huge company in Austria, which has all the employees at a business location in a GesmbH, and the whole is actually summarized in a holding. For example, at the Voest I have all the apprentices of the Voest in a GesmbH, but these work at ten different locations. How do we explain it now? This is always a subject on which it is about what rent and temporary work really is and what has developed so far. But Mr Schopf will say something about this. I note that the liberals are not willing to offer an improvement to a professional group that is not very good at the time or there. I take note of this with regret, but please do not say anymore, you are the representatives of the little man! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Are you the representative of the little man?]] Sage Please don't do that anymore! No, you really are not, because otherwise you would vote for this novel that is a further step towards improving the situation of a particular group that does not go very well there or there. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: After where is still being improved?]] The fact that this is a somewhat complicated terrain has been seen, because we have negotiated all this with the Chamber of Commerce, and some of the members of the Chamber of Commerce have then set up a so-called rebel organization and are trying to undermine all of this. We have all remained very stable and have not taken all of this so seriously, because what the rulers want is a step backwards into the last century – and not progress. I would still like to see Zivi once again waving up to address just one topic – and not to be angry! –: Solidarity in the Red Cross is ending, because there are nine different wage tables. We have Red Cross federal countries with a wage of 1,200, and we have one with 1,600. If you count this on a 48-hour week, if you count everything in, you will get the €2 100. That's not a theme. But this is just an example of Upper Austria. In Tyrol it is quite different again, because they have much less, and the Burgenland has something else again. One can only see how complex the industry is, because there are a total of 17 different collective agreements – only to know what we are talking about – and that is what we have chosen, namely, the largest one. Currently over this BAGS KV 100 000 people are paid, and these 1,386 € are the entry level in this BAGS KV. It's not a wage dumping, it's not an underrun of existing things, but it's just an attempt at unity, because that the Red Cross has nine different wage tables, also shows a massive unity among themselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15457	Next speaker: Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15478	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A dynamic, pulsating economy, which we must all be interested in, needs clear rules, regulation, both for businesses and for workers – this is at least as important. This material law, which we have presented, is an area with much further reference. You see in the application how many legislative instruments are in place for change. It is really about bringing the temporary workers to the rights of the regular workers. The question of temporary workers is, of course, a subject that can be assessed from a variety of points of view. I have ventures in my constituency, which in peak hours have well over 1,000 employees, and if there are difficulties in selling, then they reduce this number to 700 to 800 employees. This is mainly controlled via this area. That is why I think that we are, because this is so large a part of the workforce – even if it does not seem that way – that needs to be clearly regulated here. The purpose of this proposal is to implement an EU directive. There's something in the lurch. That could have been in 2011, but it's going to be done now. The social and further training funds are also involved. I think this is an important area for all those who want to take part in it. It is also a matter of avoiding unemployment as such. One, as I mean, also important development. It is not only about covering the tops in the industry or in the construction industry, but also about seasonal kidneys in other areas that, when any tops work is in progress, one can bring people up and do their work according to clear regulations. I would like to emphasise that it is a matter of improving the protection of workers, and that it is also about not making any differences between permanent workers and temporary workers as far as possible, and that it is also about putting temporary workers in the same legal position as the regular workers, for example, in the Pension Act from the fifth year onwards in the case of permanent employment. I would also like to highlight the social and training funds for all those who come into this situation, so that there is no standing time and no idle periods, but that people can get involved and continue training so that they can: as a qualified worker then can access and enter into the further work process. I also consider the information requirement to be very important because I know too many people who are suddenly confronted with the fact that the service relationship can no longer be continued. There's no bad idea about that. These are processes, things that happen in reality that meet us very often. All of this will be improved or substantially changed with this legal matter, and therefore – but the decision remains everyone’s own – I do not understand that such an important thing is denied approval. We take the responsibility so comprehensively that we give our consent here, because it is in the interests of both employers and, in particular, workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15530	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15566	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Wöinger, I am surprised that there are nine different wage tables in the Red Cross throughout the Republic. I think there is also a lot of work needed for the works council. [[Abg. Wöginger: We have the higher!]] You are invited, and the trade unions will, of course, support you in bringing us to a common wage table at the Red Cross. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also surprised that Mr Doppler of the Freedom Party has mentioned a number of improvements for temporary workers, and as a consequence he has said: And that's why our party won't agree today. [[Abg. Neubauer: The ÖGB has strongly criticized this!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Doppler.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at all the innovation, there is actually no deterioration for the affected group – there are only improvements. Of course, there may be a number of other points which we want, above all as a representative of interests, especially as a trade unionist, but I think we will continue to ask for these points in the future. Much has been discussed today about the employment rate of temporary workers. It has been said that there are, of course, farms and, above all, large farms where we have proper business agreements, where a quota has been set in these business agreements, which provides 10, 12 or 15 percent. However, we already have the right to enforce this quota in court on the basis of the constitution of work. Unfortunately, we have still led a few processes in this direction. We have just recently conducted a very important process at the Steyr Labour and Social Court, which has set a quota in a very large holding by the competent court. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a number of points where I believe that temporary workers and temporary workers will have great advantages. It is about the fact that in the future, colleagues from the temporary employment sector can also use the welfare facilities. In the future, they will also have the opportunity to have their children cared for in farm childcare facilities. The same applies in the field of means of transport and in the field of canteens in the establishments. There are a number of regulations which, in the form of business agreements, have mostly been developed by works councils or works councils together with the relevant trade union, and these business agreements will also apply to those colleagues in the future. Therefore, I think: A good template, Minister! A warm thank you on behalf of 75 000 colleagues!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15630	No one has made any mention of this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall proceed to the vote, which we shall take separately from each committee proposal. First vote on agenda item 15: Draft federal law amending the labour law, the land labour law, the labour constitution law and other laws in 1947. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Schade, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. We shall come to the vote on the amendment or amendment tabled by Members. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen on Articles 1, 3 and 4. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – It does not find a majority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those members of the House who have given their approval here for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who give their agreement to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you are also in third reading for this draft, I would like to ask you for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Treasure, ladies and gentlemen concerning the visibility of latent workers in the annual accounts. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Treasure, ladies and gentlemen, on the review of the control structures of labour leave. Who supports this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1948 report of the supplements. Whoever joins him, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:04:15]] 17. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1902 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal-Senioren Act (1949 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15743	I'll call the 17. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Hechtl. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15771	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! With this law, the Federal-Seniors Act, for the first time a uniform national quality certificate – or one can also say: Label of goodness – created. We currently have 850 old or pensioners' homes in Austria, of which about 25 percent have already introduced a quality management system. This Federal-Seniors Act puts the quality, in the sense of a single directive, in the foreground in order to introduce the same quality criteria in all old and care establishments. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Quality, quality assurance is an important aspect today. Quality and standards are parameters that are required by our customers, if you can say so. Quality, however, is also a requirement that we make every day and that is a matter of course for people working in the care sector in many areas. With this law, the quality standard in the homes, I mean, is definitely raised and is also more clearly brought to the attention of the inhabitants. This bill has also been preceded by a working group where the draft was prepared in collaborative cooperation and many ideas have been introduced which are now reflected in this draft law. Dear ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I would like to thank all those who have been involved in the fact that we have this federal-senior law with such a great quality and can decide today, whether it be the ministries, whether it be the respective organisations or the countries that cooperated here. Thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for this bill! I am convinced that the 70,000 inhabitants in the old and nursing homes will appreciate this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15811	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15834	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Seniors are always worried about: How will it be in case of a case? Am I being well cared for in a nursing home? – These concerns are largely unfounded in Austria. In general, the 850 old and nursing homes are given a very good witness. And yet, the choice is sometimes not easy for those affected and their families. There is now more assistance, an important innovation that we want to decide today, namely the national quality certificate of old and care homes. And if you're wondering, Again a new pickerl, another new seal of goodness – do we need that? - Yes. The national quality certificate is decisive. It should be based on uniform criteria throughout Austria. This has already proved itself very well in a pilot phase. The aim is – my previous speaker has clearly pointed this out – and this is important for us to push for quality. That's a heart concern. For each of the 70,000 people currently living in these homes, only the best possible quality is good enough. And the jumping point is: The establishment and operation of the homes and also the control are in the competence of the federal states. It's supposed to stay the same. There may be different criteria depending on the country. The Federal-Senior Plan, which we have only decided in 2012, recommends a national quality certificate. This is a wish of the senior representatives. . We are pleased that we can meet this request of the seniors today. Who's funding it? – The government supports certification financially, even if the respective federal state also takes part in the costs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a sensible solution. An additional control of old and nursing homes has also been carried out by the People's Procuratorate since the summer. There's a lot of things going on, like: Are too many sedatives given? or: What about hygiene? and much more. Through all these controls, we want to gain more security, more security, so that older people who need help are really well cared for. For us it's not just a new pickerl, but for us it's a lot, much more. That's why: What do we want for our seniors? – First of all, more precautions so that they do not need care at all. Secondly, Barrier-free conversions so that they can stay in their own four walls for as long as possible. And third – if necessary –: the best possible quality in the homes. Ladies and gentlemen! This is, as it were, the roof, the goal that stands above all, for all people: It should be possible to live in dignity at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15890	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15911	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree to this law with abdominal pain, therefore with abdominal pain: You, Mrs Aubauer, have said that this is a quality certificate that can be addressed. But that is not really what I think, because those things that are essential are still being controlled by the countries. It is positive that there is a uniform line. So far, homes with the involvement of the carriers have already been able to apply voluntarily for certification. A quarter of the homes in Austria already have a quality management system. There, however, the following is considered: First: Can you optimize processes? Secondly, Can resources be better exploited? And thirdly, How can you better use the time quotas in the house? – In other words, these are all things that actually reduce the cost in the house, but do not really have a direct impact on the quality of care, that is, on how lovingly the residents of the house are treated competently. And also in the national quality certificate, the focus is on process quality, i.e.: How effectively does the home work? – So you have to be really careful here, and those who are interested in a home site continue to say clearly that the structural conditions remain in the competence of the countries and are being examined there. The establishment, operation and control of homes are national matters. We have therefore sought a way through this construction to nevertheless find a uniform model of how, despite this country competence, we can better assess certain criteria. What is not examined, Mrs Aubauer, is the question of whether someone has received too much sedatives. You can't do that. That's what a doctor needs to do. Wouldn't be nice if that happened. How is the test now being carried out? - From the countries. This is where the country itself can decide how often it is examined. There comes a head of office with experts, with psychologists, with a nurse, looking at the rooms. The rooms can be designed in such a way that the resident can also influence the design of the room himself. How are the timetables designed? For example, there must be nothing registered with pencil. Is there regular care also for the staff who are under very large, also mental, pressure? What do the plans look like? What does the laundry room look like? Is there also really the clean laundry separated from the dirty laundry? Is there a security officer in the house? Is there anyone who's dealing with the elevator so that it also works? – All these things are examined by the countries. You just found this interim solution. I believe that if you really wanted to find an optimal solution, you would have to go here and say: All right, setting up and running are the country's business, and as far as the control is concerned, another body should be responsible for the control. Then it would be perfectly organized. But I understand, of course, that it is not so easy to enforce the legitimate interests that we all have with each other in the course of negotiations with the federal states.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15953	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e15975	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Hofer, has already given some indication of where the problem lies. Here again, federalism, with its unfavorable effects in this case, is affecting us, so that we come to a solution, namely to this national quality certificate, which is welcome in itself, only if the federal government loosens money for it and, so to speak, animateds the federal states in this way that it agrees to a matter that should be of course. And yet – Mr Hofer is right – even if the national quality certificate has been introduced, essential problems have not been solved yet, but we are still in the process. Mr Gend. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. He may also think of a single control system or a uniform and comparable staff key. But these would be further milestones on the way to comparable quality criteria that we urgently need in the field of care, not just for a federal country, but for all nine in common.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16007	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16028	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! 80 percent of the people who are of the appropriate age and need care and care are cared for at home and cared for, 60 percent of them from their families, from family members. But also the stationary care – for about 17 percent of the caregivers and caregivers – is an important pillar, an important stand in the guaranteed care, especially for people of old age or for the most seriously needy, but also for people who need a home for short-term care, and also for those who have their place in an old-age home in an old-age home according to their desire. I have to say at this point: It is true, of course, that there are absolutely different regulations in the individual Länder, and it also depends on who the operator is, which institutions and institutions are the operators, but a large part of the homes and retirement homes do excellent work. And I think, even in the care and care, a lot has changed, even in the old homes, and this must be said here again. We shall vote in favour of this proposal. It is a voluntary quality feature, a voluntary quality seal for old and care homes to improve the situation of residents, but also for employees. The costs are, of course, divided, and, as I have pointed out in the Committee, 49 percent of the costs have to be borne by the homes themselves. The Federation gives incentives for training those who certify here. We will, as we have said, give our consent. However, this must not be concealed from the fact that we still have no sustainable overall care concept with a clear formulation of the responsibilities. My previous speakers pointed out the problems when homes fall into country competence. We have the care fund until 2014, but what is then? By 2014 certain funds are planned; 2013, we have heard today, € 200 million. It is distributed to the countries, and I am asking myself as the Upper Austrian, since the first partial payment to Upper Austria in May, which actually happened to the money. Then: It has obviously not changed much in the care for those who need it. That is why, Minister of State: We are also waiting urgently for the nursing service statistics you have said in an answer to a question that this is still outstanding. It must not deceive us of this qualification feature and the seal of quality that the care allowance is not adjusted annually. This adjustment is missing, and I ask for it again at this point. What I consider positive is that there has been an administrative reform in the payment of the care allowance, which will certainly also prove itself. It must also not deceive us of the fact that nursing homes are still under severe cost pressure. In addition, there is this demand, which is always the same as from the base and the real operators, 10 percent of the care money now retained by the Financial Office will not be kept away from homes, because an even higher cost pressure with increasing quality and increasing performance is almost impossible. This not only concerns nursing homes, but also the mobile services for which it is becoming increasingly difficult to find suitable employees. Thousands of nurses and assistants in the homes and mobile services are already missing, and forecasts say that this will be particularly noticeable by 2020. Why are so many missing? – I think that with one reason the high drop-out ratio is because this professional activity is very difficult to reconcile with the family, because part-time work is very widespread in this area, because it is not different, and especially older employees, because they simply cannot endure the burdens and the constant requirements that are placed on them every day. With one reason, the less attractive salaries as well as the large pay differences between the organizations are certainly also. There is also no uniform system across the country. If I think that a professional gets €1 900 gross, what is ultimately left net if you include the high taxes and taxes. That's where I have to say honestly: The work on man is not honoured accordingly! That would be the task of the union to finally make sure that work on people, work with people is paid accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! It also needs courage for new ideas as regards the training of staff. I would like to point out again that there have been applications for the teaching profession “care and care” that are rejected each time. Here too, I think, one should find a compromise and talk in a serious round of talks about whether there are no possibilities in this regard, for example schools, high schools that have a care centre where young people can start training at the age of 15, where accompanying a corresponding theoretical training takes place. As I said, we agree with voluntary qualification, which is basically good, but that is just a side-front. The main front, ladies and gentlemen, is still a construction site – a construction site on which there is an absolute need for action. We must therefore finally act so that people in Austria can continue to be self-determined, manageable and quality maintained and cared for in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16090	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16111	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think that this issue – the quality in our old and care homes – is very important to us, that we will now demand and that we will continue to demand enormously in the future, and that is why we need to pay more attention to this issue. The old and the nursing homes are homes for and with people in special situations. On the one hand, it is about the inhabitants who need professional and human funding in an intensive way. That's what it's about. Employees, who often carry out their activities with great responsibility. This is about family members and their concerns and concerns when it comes to their family members. And finally, and finally, it is about those responsible themselves who ensure that they can keep their homes structurally and financially in the future. As you will have noticed, I see this subject more widely than some of my previous speakers have outlined. I therefore see this law as a force for the quality offensive, because we know that many operators are taking part in optimizing the processes in their homes to exploit their resources, but also in order to make better use of the time quotas. This time is a valuable one, so it should not be spent on administrative matters, but on the inhabitants, for the people in these homes. I think the introduction of this national quality certificate clearly contributes to increasing transparency. This transparency, in turn, is a prerequisite for lifting the image of these institutions – our old and care homes. Furthermore, this certificate helps to reduce the wild growth that has been created in some of the seal of quality with the standards that are now being established throughout the country. We have nothing to do with the fact that people are unable to orient themselves to the stamps of goodness throughout our federal territory. Only with this new national certificate will this be achieved. Secondly, I am glad that the Federal Government and the Länder have now agreed on the question of funding for implementation and that, we have now heard, there is broad agreement in this House on this implementation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16162	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16184	Mr President. Federal Minister! As the last speaker to the Federal-Seniors Act, I would like to briefly discuss the benefits of this national quality certificate for old and care homes. This certificate is concerned – and I say that is why it is a voluntary measure – about 70,000 residents and some 30,000 employees in old and nursing homes can be affected. For me personally, this is an important step in the right direction and a win-win situation. Who are the beneficiaries of this quality certificate? On the one hand, this is – very important – the inhabitants of our homes, because the quality standards indicated give security and strengthen confidence in care and care. Therefore, they are especially important for family members. But the employees are also beneficiaries. They now have a visible outward sign of their performance, their role in relation to the inhabitants and their relatives, and the certificate gives security in their work. However, the operators of old and care homes are also beneficiaries because these quality development measures contribute to optimising processes, better resource utilization and effective use of time quotas. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the most important time is that the employees can spend with the residents. For me, however, the Federal Government and the Länder are also beneficial, because the qualification and certification also improves quality, and therefore – as has already been mentioned several times – I see this certification instrument as positive, because it is beyond the borders of the federal states and thus also makes it possible to compare the facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I should like to thank the employees and all those responsible in the old and care homes for the excellent work they do for our highly regarded people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In summary, I am convinced that this law contributes to further strengthening the image of old and nursing homes. For me, therefore, the financial expenses of federal government, countries and home operators are justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16238	Mr Hundstorfer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16259	Ladies and gentlemen! Just briefly: I thank you for the approval of all the political groups. The 2011 bill will be available soon, then we can answer your question correctly. A little joke only on the edge: In the course of the 19 000 control studies we carry out on the Centre of Expertise regarding home care, we check for a criteria catalogue from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler. In the stationary area, we will work a little bit on it – but you all know the constitutional situation of the Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16300	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We now come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1902 of the supplements. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this draft for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. If you agree in third reading, I ask you for your sign. – This is just as unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:31:05]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 2062/A by Mr Renate Csörgits, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, on a Federal Act amending the War Victim Supply Act 1957, the Victim Care Act, the Military Supply Act, the Vaccination Act and the Crime Sacrifice Act (1950 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 2035/A(E) by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, colleagues, on the termination of the disadvantage of the 2008 pension adjustment for pensions under the compensatory allowance rate (1951, e.g.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 2063/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, ladies and gentlemen, on adequate deductions at the level of the pension scheme for all those pensioners who were discriminated against in the 2008 pension adjustment process (1952, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16378	We now come to points 18 to 20 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting is not required. The debate opens up to Mr Neubauer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16405	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, that day could have started so well today that it could have ended so nicely if we look at the requests on the agenda in the social field: I would have been critical, but then I would have said positively that today we are finally rehabilitating the puss of the 2008 pension adjustment and making the pensioner some 1.1 percent in addition to 1. October – but then Federal Minister Fekter came to the budget and explained in her presentation that she is proud that there was a savings package for the pensioners, and that she is also proud that there was no protests from there at all. And here I have asked myself whether there is a certain need for information on the part of the Federal Government or the Federal Minister, whether there can be a certain form of refusal of reality here, because the number of people affected by poverty in the Austrian population has increased to 1 million and 500 000 people in that country are manifestly poor. And I wondered if the Minister could still understand with her salary of €16 000 that at least 650 000 pensioners suffered massive financial losses due to this 2008 pension fee. I also wondered how one can fix that in the event of a daily loss of the purchasing power of pensions and a massive 25 per cent loss of value these pensioners do not know in part how they will be Can you finance life – or did you, Mr. Federal Minister, know that last year in Tyrol an oil tank filling cost an average of €1,500 and this year costs €3 000, so the costs are 100 percent expensive? If it is claimed that there has been no protest, then I may point out to you that my office alone – and this is the file register – has received 1,786 letters and e-mails from concerned pensioners who no longer know how to live their existence with this curable pension at all. [[The speaker shall keep a folder of documents up to date]] Did you know that in these times, where we are so rich, the women's clinic of the state hospital in Linz must turn off the heating, the ÖVP at the same time a third director who wants to install at the spag and the black Christian union to give it its blessing? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller]] In my opinion, this is really an approach where the Federal Government has already massively failed in the social field. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore conclude today with the request to support the request made by our group, the pensioners who did not benefit from this scheme as a minimum pensioner during the 2008 pension adjustment and who have therefore suffered a loss of up to €400 in recent years, to grant a lump sum payment. I would like to ask you: Wake up your social conscience!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16472	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16493	So I have rarely heard as much nonsense as my previous speaker here in the House, and I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to really explain why we are against your requests, and to that end it is necessary to look back into 2008. [[Abg. New builder: Then it's always been time!]] At that time, in order to say that clearly, there were two different pension increases, and in this context those pensions, which are below €747, were raised less than the other pensions. This has led to the bringing of actions that have ultimately even gone to the European Court of Justice, and it has been found that there is, in fact, discrimination against those who have filed the action, which in turn has led to the ball being in politics. But that would have meant – and you know that, Mr Neubauer, quite precisely – that only those who filed the complaint would have received a 1.1 percent pension increase retroactively. [[Abg. New builder: We would have complained in the name of everyone!]] And it would have been necessary to roll up pensions retroactively for this group of persons, which would also mean demanding higher health insurance contributions and re-rolling the wage tax in return. In February of this year, this situation has led Social Minister Hundstorfer to invite the social spokespersons of all the parties represented here in Parliament. The following agreement was reached during this discussion: It is said that only for a handful of women and men – namely those who have filed the complaint – pensions are raised retroactively by 1.1 percent. In return, all pensioners whose pension was lower than the so-called compensation allowance rate – at that time the 747 € mentioned by me – receive a special adjustment of the pension amounting to 1.1 percent. This arrangement is not only tangible, but it is also social for me, and that is why this proposal was carried by all the parties back in February, and I would like to thank the Federal Minister Hundstorfer very much for this – and I also thank the pensioners for this step now with 1. In October, they received an extraordinary pension increase, which they urgently need. As a matter of urgency, they need them – and now I come back to you, colleague Neubauer – because the income losses you mentioned just before came about because, during the black and blue-orange government, almost once-payments to the pensioners were made to them all the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: This is stupid! That's an incredible nonsense!]] That is why the representatives of the FPÖ, who accepted one-off payments at the time, now make themselves here and now say something like Robin Hood [[Abg. New builder: This is an incredible nonsense!]] The poor pensioners! Let's finally do something for her! – Here you can see how important it is for you to reach a five-party agreement here in Parliament, and how you stick to it – today so, tomorrow so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] This is a policy that we do not need and that our pensioners also do not need in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16598	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16619	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelberger, it was true that when the pension adjustment was made in 2008, pensions were only increased by 1.7 percent by the compensatory allowance rate and everyone else by up to 2.8 percent. In addition, the European Court of Justice also ruled that the Court of Justice should: ==References====External links== All the social speakers were invited by the Federal Minister to consider how we are doing here, because the whole of this means, of course, a great administrative effort to re-roll all the pensions concerned. We then agreed, as the Supreme Court has said, that it will increase by 1.1 percent to 2.8 percent. However, this extraordinary pension adjustment does not take into account inflation-related losses since the 2008 pension adjustment. I know that this is a very minimal amount, that this also concerns pensions, the second or third pensions, and that is not the final conclusion of wisdom. There are a number of those who have objected to this, have filed a complaint and may no longer be living at all; that is already a problem. Our request aims to ensure that those people who have experienced a certain disadvantage with these pensions are entitled to a “sugarl” in 2013 by means of the pension adjustment. That's what it's all about. Then everything would be paid off. Mr Spindelberger, I have to say one more thing: Today, your colleague Jan Krainer has said that under the blue-black government in the pension area, inflation has always been adjusted. I would like to say the following: In 1999, the compensatory allowance rate for single person was € 590 and in 2006 it was € 690. So much has never been increased in the time of socialist government participation in the compensatory allowance rate! - That's what I'm talking about. You have to stick to the facts. It's all right to criticize one thing and the other, so we do. But please just one thing: You also have to admit what a political competitor has done well in his responsibility! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] I miss this in the political culture in Austria. I simply miss it, that you can go here and say: Yes, this is a good idea, either from the Austrian People's Party, from the Social Democratic Party or from the Liberals, from the Greens or from the BZÖ, to which we can gain something, and that is also in our sense. - What kind of stone does someone fall out of the crown? It must be possible! To the Military Supply Act, to the Vaccination Act, Crime Victim Law: We will give this request our consent because it is a necessary measure in the interests of those concerned and in order to avoid a reduction in pensions, so that these people who have relatively little are not disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16680	Next speaker: Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16702	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dolinschek, I would like to answer you already. It is great and good that there is a common agreement that the government template is now approved. But the application of the BZÖ is simply not feasible in practice. [[Abg. Dolinschek: It can be converted into zero-commanights!]] – There are approximately 600 000 requests to be rolled up individually, and this is certainly a considerable administrative burden. But not only is this a reason for this, but we will now conclude a rounding for these 620 000 pensioners. It is, I believe, very welcome if there is no such reduction in pensions in social compensation and precisely with 1. In January 2013, when calculating income-related benefits, the current pension levels are taken back into account and usually transferred. To Mr Neugebauer – Excuse me: New builder. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – My President Neugebauer would never say anything like that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Neubauer, as you have weathered here, what has now been said or not said in this budget speech – and I can assure you, not only the Minister of Finance, but we know from the ÖVP, like our government partner, what benefits the seniors have provided. But we also know that we have to look at young people, at people who are at work, and we see this together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On your request, I would like to say: This is actually a discrimination if you want to go through it the way you want it to. With our request, we have an adequate discount payment. In this sense, I hope that, as you have already said, you will agree to this and that in general is a solution according to this OGH judgment for the future for our pensioners who are in the smaller part of their pension.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16758	Mr Hundstorfer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16780	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only for one's own psy- Chohygiene, Deputy Neubauer: These are small and micro-pensions, but for none of those who purchase these micro- and micro-pensions, this is the only source of income. You know that very well. For the wide range, the second-rate pension, partly third-party pensions, or living in the family association and more are deserved, so that no compensatory allowance rate is available. They're supplementary pensions. That there are, of course, a few of them who have only this pension from their philosophy of life, but because they are married, can't get anything else – yes. But you also have to look at the course careers of those concerned, which contribution times they have. That's why we leave the church where it belongs. We have, of course, made a good proposal. I was glad that this was possible with all five parties. The fact that two opposition parties now compete with each other, as they may be able to get something out there or there, is legitimate, but I do not quite understand it. I'd just ask you: Imagine these people who have 25 €, 50 €, 100 €, in the argument, not as if this was the only source of their life! You know exactly that's not the way it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16816	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16837	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to go back one step: Pension increase 2008. A pension increase, where low pensions are increased lower than higher pensions – such a snap idea has to come up with! At the time, however, it did not only invade the government parties, but they found them to be good and – even more shocking – the senior associations have said: Wonderful, wonderful, that's exactly what we want. - That's one. We have already pointed out at that time that this will not be the case. We have also mentioned examples, Mr Federal Minister – I have to disagree now, although there has already been a loophole in it – where, of course, people in the family association, male and female, each have such low pensions that they still do not have to reach the common compensation rate and, of course, when a pension increase of more than 1 percent is lower, they have rightly felt disadvantaged. Clear: After this supreme judgment, the situation was unsatisfactory for those who did not go to the Supreme Court. That is why we were very happy and agree that there was this proposal, which, of course, cannot produce the legal status of 2008 for these 500 000 or 600 000 persons concerned. But it was also clear to us that this will not work unless we give up the pension insurance institution for two or three years so that it can calculate pensions for these 500,000 people. On the other hand, we must also say, of course, that what is happening to misery or poverty in this Republic is not just for these 500 000 pensioners. Not only are these 500 000 pensioners the poor, but among these 500 000 or 600 000 there are those who have quite a considerable first or second pension, and there are other poor people who probably do not receive pension or unemployment benefit or emergency aid, and those who do not come to an increase because the ÖVP has their objections again. To sum up: We stand by the compromise that has been agreed. I do not think it is good to try to make unnecessary small amounts out of the FPÖ and the BZÖ, which no one has ever realized. [[Abg. New builder: Small money for pensioners we call that!]] – Because no one is interested in what you have produced today in the debate on rejection. I'm sorry. It is an agreement that is reasonable, and one can take note of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16876	There is no further statement of words to this effect. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Draft federal law, which amends the War Victim Care Act, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Military Supply Act and other laws, including the title and receipt in 1950 of the Supplements. If you are in favour of this draft, I ask you for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I would also ask for your approval in third reading. – That is just as unanimous. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1951 report of the supplements. I'm asking for your sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1952 report of the supplements. I ask for your consent. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:52:39]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1611/A(E) by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Members of Parliament on the introduction of a minimum statutory wage of €1 300 to combat wage poverty (1953 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues, concerning a Federal Law on the Law of the Federal Republic of Germany of Germany of 14 February 1922/A ==References====External links==* Official website No. 22/1974, amended (1954, e.g.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1153/A(E) by Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on a Federal Framework Act on the uniform rules for the exercise, training and remuneration of social workers (1955 d.a.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to the Council for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the Helene Jarmer, colleagues on the reform of the right of equal treatment (1956, e.g.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from Parliament to the Council (Doc. Helene Jarmer, colleagues on the treatment of the National Action Plan for People with Disabilities in the National Council (1957, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e16998	We now come to points 21 to 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reports are not desired. The debate opens up to Mr. Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17026	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking today about a reform of the right of disability, we should also appreciate the contribution of disabled people to the economic crisis. Today, I would like to emphasise that disabled people are burdened, for example, by the abolition of the NOVA refund, by difficult access to the first care allowance levels, by non-adjustment to disability allowances, or by the loss of inflation in the care allowance, which now accounts for 25 percent. I would therefore also like to make a request which deals with this adjustment of the value of the care allowance. It is not about increasing the care money, providing more services. It is about ensuring automatic annual value adjustment, as is the case in many other areas. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to stress once again: It is not a question of increasing, but of paying off the loss of inflation in this area, because we ourselves must have an interest in the fact that disabled people can live a decent life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the field of the right of equal treatment for persons with disabilities, of course, accessibility has a very special and important role to play. We need to find a very wise and measured way to ensure, on the one hand, that people with disabilities are not hindered by barriers and, on the other hand, that those companies that have built up barriers provide assistance in order to reduce these barriers to the benefit of disabled people. Here the public hand is particularly required to play a pioneering role. Let me say something on this point, ladies and gentlemen, which is very important to me personally: When we talk about equality between people with disabilities, we also need to talk about a subject that is not often discussed in Austria, namely the Eugenian indication. It is a fact that disabled life can be killed outside the time-limit solution. A child can, if there is a suspicion of disability, be killed immediately before birth – until minutes before birth! I believe that it is our responsibility as a parliamentarian to find a solution that meets real equality. I say it quite clearly: With the current legal situation, we are not far from a national socialist ideology of unvalued life! You have to say that so clearly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore ask you, since there is already a request and will be dealt with here in Parliament, also within the framework of your responsibility, not as a representative, but as a human being, to ensure that disabled children or children who are suspected of having a disability cannot be killed until immediately before birth. It's about a life that's viable. They are full of trained children who, if they were to come to the world, could also live. I was very surprised by the opinion from the Ministry of Health on this subject, in which it has been said that one wants to free mothers from this burden, that here practical life comes to the world that is not viable. This is not true and does not correspond to the legal situation! It can be driven off as part of the Eugenic indication, killed if there is a suspicion of disability, and not when it is clear that this life is not viable. The opposite is the case. It even tells abortion doctors that they have brought children who were supposed to be killed in the context of the Eugenic indication with a syringe, or in which this has already been tried, alive to the world and then, due to the legal situation, were obliged to try to preserve this life that was already heavily influenced. They then had to experience how these babies perished. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: These are show stories!]] These aren't show stories, I can prove that to you! – Mrs Colleague, this is not a cheap polemic! [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: These are show stories you're trying to make cheap polemics!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Shame! That's a terrible thing!]] You should be ashamed if you think that – I am speaking now! [[New call of the abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] If you think it's all right that you can drive disabled lives off right before birth, then you're not far from the NS ideology, my dear lady! Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17128	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17193	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17217	Mr President. We are now discussing several agenda items in one. I would like to briefly report on the subject of minimum wage, as a request from Mr Dolinschek from the BZÖ. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I would like to say to Mr Dolinschek: The analysis of why this request was made is completely in order. The reasons are understandable and are also true from my experience. The demand for raising minimum salaries and minimum wages in our country is also in order. Only the way – we discussed this in committee – is wrong in our opinion. The way to establish minimum wages by law is, I believe, not the right way. That is why there will be no majority in the proposal, and I am sure of that. Briefly summarized: The wages of workers in the private sector should not depend on politics, not on policy. Just income development can be better achieved through strong trade unions and strong collective agreements. You know, 96 percent of all employment in our country is based on a collective contract. So: Strengthening trade unions, choosing works councils, that's the better way. An example just: A collective contract concluded a few days ago shows that it is also possible to advance into these ranks, even for apprentices. ==References====External links== January next year the apprentice compensation last year is €295. I therefore believe that proof has succeeded that there are positive developments here through collective agreements. The reward is not all. Only to set the wage by law is what you require. But what about working time? What about the special payments? How does it look like supplements, surcharges, overtime supplements, working time planning? Is all of this free, or is it to be regulated? – These points are often also important or as important as direct monthly earnings. So all of this, I think, is well included in collective agreements. I remember: In 2005, when a member of the then government, that is, Minister of Finance Grasser, even said abroad that the wage increases of trade unions are far too high for us. At that time it was about the metallurgical closure, which was determined with 3.1 percent Ist-Lohn increase. Our then Minister of Finance said abroad: No, that's far too high, but we actually have to do something, that can't be it. The danger that the government or policy will then influence what the social partners make up: I don't want to! That is why my group will not agree to this request either.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17263	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17284	Mr President. I would also like to say briefly something about the minimum wage, on the request of a minimum statutory wage. I think it is known that we Greens have long called for a legal minimum wage, i.e. a minimum wage for existence. It is totally unacceptable for us that people work full time and cannot live on it! That is why we logically support the BZÖ's request. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that there are still collective agreements that unfortunately have a shameful level in the area of minimum wage. We also know that there is an increasing number of jobs that are not regulated by collective agreements. There are, as it were, differences in how high the coverage rate is. But that's not the point. It is at least 5 percent; we have data that goes up to 14 percent. There's definitely an area that's not covered. I also have to say that something is going on: It goes a little further within the union. In fact, I can bring you closer to a decision of the ÖGB Salzburg, which definitely means that there must also be a fair income in the collective contract-free area. Then there is a legal minimum fee. - Well, that's it! I'm very happy. It is not yet said that it needs a certain amount, but there are other proposals, regionalities et cetera. But it's a step. At the same time, we probably have the definition of a very well acceptable sum of €1500 for the ÖGB women. This corresponds to about €8.50 per hour. So I think we've made progress. Nevertheless, I believe that we must solve two problems in a total, namely, that we agree on an existential wage, on the level of an existential wage. I say again and again: Let us orient ourselves to the International Labour Organisation, i.e. this United Nations organization, which proposes 60 percent of the median income. First point. Second point: We then need a guarantee that no one who is full-time gets less than this value – whether because the collective agreement is accordingly high, or where the collective agreement does not take effect, about a legal regulation. I think the debate is tough; I hope we will move on. We're on a good way, and we greens are definitely an engine.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17333	Mr Huainigg has been mentioned as the next speaker. If desired, 4 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17354	Mr President. Minister! High house! Disabled people are always confronted with barriers. For example, if I'm on my way to Parliament this morning with the wheelchair, you need five times longer. You have to wait for the next barrier-free subway – not every subway train is barrier-free – or you have to travel detours with the wheelchair, because not every sidewalk is flattened. But accessibility is gradually getting better. In particular, the Federal Disability Equality Act, which was adopted in 2006 in this House, has contributed to this. Not all parties, not all have voted in favour; I would also like to remind you of that. But it has adjusted Minister Hundstorfer – and also his predecessor, Minister Buchinger – that the law works and has led to a broad social change. These are the stages which have gradually created accessibility, equality and the elimination of discrimination. It is above all the conciliation procedures. There are 800 conciliation procedures in recent years, and 400 of them were equally successful: Without a complaint, they agreed and removed barriers. Of course, a good law can be made even better. We have gained experience, and there are also problems such as the association action where there has been no one in recent years. Or you also need to discuss the omission and elimination. In other countries, we have to see if and how to implement this in Austria. That is why it is decided today – and we have tabled the request – that a working group should be set up in the Social Ministry, in particular with those affected, where proposals for improvement should be discussed and presented to Parliament. The Employment Equality Act is expected to become even more effective. Another word to my colleague Norbert Hofer, who referred to the Eugenian indication: I also find it unbearable if disabled children are to be discharged into disability by the time they are born. We need to discuss this. But we also need enough space to do this, we need discussion with experts. I am also in favour of making a secret vote or a vote on this subject in this House, because it is a matter of conscience. Especially if we later discuss the pre-implantation diagnosis, which is also a means of selection, then Eugenic indication as a question of conscience must also be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17399	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. If desired, 3 minutes are set. [[Abg. Dolinschek: (on the way to the speaker's desk) I'll need longer!]] Voluntary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17436	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to start with our request “Minimum wage of €1 300”. But after my colleague Dr. Huainigg on the disability equal treatment law is now starting with the Federal Disability Equality Act. I think it was in the sense of all here in the house that at that time the Federal Disability Equality Act entered into force. And I think it was a unanimous decision in 2005 and with 1. January 2006 then entered into force. It is only, Mr Huainigg, that you should remember that, as the State Secretary at the time, I conducted the negotiations on this law in the final phase, with the involvement of all the social partners and also with the involvement of the disabled organisations, in particular with the Chairman of the Austrian Association for Rehabilitation, Dr Klaus Voget, or with Mag. Svoboda, as well as the chairman of the BIZEPS, Mag. Ladstatter. It was not so easy at the time to bring the whole thing into this form of law. A transitional period of ten years has been chosen to end accessibility by 2016 in all areas, whether this is happening in traffic, in public spaces and so on. Some things have not yet happened, especially in tourism not yet, in the gastronomy not yet, nor in many other public areas. Since there is a certain amount of anti-drug, with public buildings, which – like Parliament – are subject to the protection of monuments, it is of course more difficult to implement structurally sound measures. Nevertheless, we should always work on improvements. What also bothers me is that, for example, a fund for financial support for people with disabilities for enforcement in the event of discrimination It is still not planned. This belongs to a set-up, and we should also work together in the future. This also applies to changes in the construction sector, and I am now saying the following: Every human being is in danger of being temporarily disabled. I'm calling a few numbers now. 50,000 people in Austria are sitting in the wheelchair; not constantly, that can also be temporary. 70,000 people have a broken leg and are temporarily disabled. 350 000 mothers push a pram, which also includes a certain impairment. And 480 000 people have physical impairments a year. It is therefore essential that these structural and transport measures be implemented in all areas, as do the others. Now I come to the minimum wage. Mr Riepl, I would like to thank you for this contribution, because he has a completely different quality and says that it is not all a smearing, which a person demands from the opposition, but a contentious argument. I understand when someone is a trade union officer, that he naturally wants to regulate the whole of the collective treaty in the interests of the social partners. I understand! I'm also at the union, but I'm not a official, and that's why I'm squandered! I want to see those who work in the professional field – in the case of notaries, in the case of lawyers and so on – who do not have a collective agreement receive a minimum wage. This minimum wage should be linked to the inflation rate each year, similar to that in the Greens' request, which is now 8.50 € hourly wages, each year. Next: Of course, the wage is not everything, Mr Riepl! This is not all, it is also about working time, labour law and so on – but that is regulated by the law. Only the wage is regulated in the KV! That is why a minimum wage, coupled with inflation, should be fixed for those persons who have not regulated the wage via the KV. That is why this request is being made, and I would therefore like to support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17487	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 2 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17509	Mr President. Mr Dolinschek, you said in your previous speech: It doesn't happen that government parties praise what previous governments did sometime, and we wouldn't fall stone out of the crown. I have found a pass on minimum wages from the government programme ‘Schüssel II’, where, I think, you were also the Secretary of State, and I would like to praise you for that. That is to say: We believe that every employee and employee should have a minimum wage of €1,000 per month for full-time work – well, that's a long time ago. We therefore call on the social partners, as collective contracting parties, to lay down appropriate provisions in the collective agreements. The aim is to ensure that jobs remain secure, particularly in sensitive sectors. - Quote. Super – two ministers, two ex-ministers who now make the request, Haubner and you: At that time you trusted more in the social partners, so continue to do so! The social partners will continue to try to produce good minimum wages in these areas, and I think we are on a good path. [[Abg. May. Honey: But we have a situation...!]] This does nothing better than the statutory minimum wage. - That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17558	Mr Doppler has been mentioned as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17580	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! What we urgently need is uniform rules for social workers: Work characteristics, tasks. Social workers support individuals and families in dealing with social problems, conflicts and difficult living situations. They work in various public and private social services. Their activity is very extensive and depends heavily on the objectives of the institution in which they are employed. As part of the healthcare system, social workers work more in hospitals, health offices and many institutions, for example. In addition to their general advisory and assistance activities for people, they are trying to motivate those concerned to act actively themselves: Help for self-help. Despite numerous areas of action of social work, there is hardly any legal basis. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that's all right, and that can't be! There is an urgent need for a uniform system for improving employment and social legislation in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17613	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17634	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would now like to speak on Mrs Jarmer's requests on the equal treatment law and the National Action Plan for People with Disabilities, and I would also like to say beforehand that I would like to give Mr Dolinschek a hundred percent right to talk about the objective of disability policy simply being the equal, barrier-free participation of people with disabilities in all social areas as far as possible. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Huber]] I think that must be the goal of a good disability policy. Together we are on a very good path. I would remind you that many applications in the so-called disability policy are being tabled as five-party applications and are also decided. I am convinced that the framework conditions of politics include, above all, the change in people's minds – the economy, the entrepreneurs, the population, all people – so that we can really focus on people's strengths and not always put the weaknesses in the foreground. There we are, I think, all together demanded, and as we have said, there is a good way. I am also convinced that the National Action Plan for People with Disabilities is another very important step in this direction, because this National Action Plan for People with Disabilities has been jointly developed by many actors. The Ministry has led this process. They were involved in countries, ministries and disability organisations. All of them have jointly adopted this National Action Plan for People with Disabilities, and implementation steps have also been set out in a follow-up group. I believe that this is a good way, one that will create many new opportunities for people with disabilities in the next few years, but of course – and I am right to Mr Hofer – always while weighing on the economic feasibility and rights of people with disabilities, so that they do not lose sight of this either. This is a field of tension in which we move. A word to conclude with regard to eugenic indication. I know it's a very hot topic. I would really like to say, Mr Hofer, that I do not think it is all right to cut it so briefly in a two-minute contribution. This is a very sensitive issue, which, I think, should not be debated morally, but should simply be debated objectively, while respecting all the rights of people with disabilities, but also respecting the rights of women who are in this situation. I'm convinced of that. I would also like to stress, Mr Hofer, that I am really convinced that no woman is making this step easy and that no doctor is taking this step easily. This should be observed throughout the debate, kept in mind and, above all, not really moralising.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17683	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17704	Mr President. Mr Sozialminister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is the theme of the day: Disability, please wait! On point one, right of equal treatment for persons with disabilities: Of course it's a good right. Thank you also for seeing progress due to the Green request, but whether we should really be pleased, that is a big question. Disabled people must wait again, until 2014, until any accessibility comes. A question to you, Minister for Social Affairs: Why do the disabled have to wait again? Skill Do you remember my first opening speech, where I showed the sign of the “Making the Disabled Ones Law ”? Skill You remember, Mr. Minister? Skill Would you please show me that? - Okay! [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer does not remember the so-called signs.]] Law on equal treatment for men and women. [[The speaker shows the corresponding signs.]] – Do we want to practice together? Right of equal treatment for men and women. [[The speaker repeats these.]] Well, okay; I'm very happy to teach in sign language. Second point, the National Action Plan: It is really important that this action plan is dealt with here in Parliament. Mrs Van den Broek, the debate will take place in the Social Affairs Committee. Committee, but that is far too little. I would like to ask you all: Why has the disability report been dealt with here in Parliament, but the action plan is hidden somewhere? Yeah, in the committee, somewhere in the back. Why without a public? Can anyone please tell me? Why? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Are disabled people less valued? No, no, no, This should be dealt with in Parliament, in the presence of the public. It's supposed to be journalists. As has already been said, people should know what is being done. You need the public to do this. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer stands up and turns to the Bureau.]] – The Minister goes, unfortunately. Shame! Now I have said, and you, too, have said: Of course, the National Action Plan is in favour of positive things, but it must also be publicly shown. Or? Am I right? It would be important for each department to submit a report. Each department tells us what kind of disabled people are being done. So far, only the Social Ministry is responsible. Only the Ministry of Social Affairs deals with this issue. The other issues should also be dealt with. That's the point Numero one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Point 2 in connection with the Committee: It is important that a public hearing takes place. That means, as you have said: Participation of disabled people is important. Do you think it's enough if a public event was made the NAP twice? Is participation sufficient? Now we can rest and don't need to do anything? - No, I don't. That's not how it is, Mr. Social Minister. The time is already different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is important that disabled people are really invited here and a public hearing takes place, a public discussion on these issues. These issues should be addressed here in Parliament so that real, genuine participation takes place, where all progress is discussed and highlighted. I think it is certainly very good that progress is also made publicly. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like the National Action Plan to be dealt with here in Parliament. Or would you like it to be said again: Disability, please wait, we have other concerns and other problems!Unknown term type: "%s".? What's the reason? Obstacles can be cured, even in the minds, Mrs. Colleague. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17819	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17841	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope it will now be translated by Mrs Jarmer. With all the understanding of the impatience she has – she is not alone – I want to clarify only three things. The National Action Plan is the most public of all. It is fully transparent on our homepage. It is even available in easy-to-read version, so that even people who have learning difficulties can read this NAP. We have been able to adapt this together with disability organisations accordingly. You know very well, Mrs Jarmer, that even in the monitoring committee, where more than 100 participants last time, the topics of the NAP are being dealt with. Last time it was the topic of education. It was attended by the school resort. The classroom is there a speech and an answer. I was there by chance, too, for over an hour. In this way, we will now be working on the subject of each monitoring committee. But one thing is quite clear: For example, I will not be able to make accessibility within a year in schools as far as construction is concerned. That is why these transitional periods exist. That's one of the issues. I can't change it, because we don't have the money to remodel all schools ad hocly. We'll do the step by step. That's just a small example. I believe that the NAP is discussed very well, very publicly, very, very publicly, and that we do not hide anything at all, not even any addition, because we all do not need that together.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17880	As the last speaker on these agenda items, Mr Fichtenbauer is speaking. 5 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17917	This is very difficult for unsavory listeners. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am talking about the attempt to amend the Constitutional Labour Act, which has been warranted with a negative committee report, and at the same time I am guilty – Mr Jarolim will be happy to hear this – of the naïveness. I have really believed that it is possible, in the Committee, in the real central institution of the living social partners, to work with all the skills of elbows and, as it understands, to incite the opponents of social partners to engage in a debate that has been geared towards meaning and design. What was my concern? – To eliminate injustice in connection with the type of managing director defined in the Employment Constitution Act in the field of the worker concept is defined according to the reality of working life, as is the case with senior employees. It is about the type of sent managing director who does not have the least competence to influence the management of the company, who does not have a management function that has no personal sovereignty. He is only posted by a company for any purpose that he prepares any market, and has no more money. He just has to do it because his job requires it. And he who is completely cut off from the possibility of fighting against unjust termination. The Supreme Court, in its permanent jurisdiction, refuses to examine individually the living relationship with the other executives. This test shall be refused in this type. That's the concern: Eliminating injustice. I then heard from a speaker of the SPÖ: The managing director, who has all the power, should I protect it now? So he talked about a managing director I didn't mean exactly. That's where I complain of the lack of meaningful reading. The second part of the social partners is that, without further examination of the content of the EIA, the colleague has agreed to this rejection. An interesting experience, because as a result, I was able to take note that only what the Minister of Social Affairs allowed me to do, which even cut off the debate, can happen there: There is no managing director light, and with that, the end of the debate! I'm just telling you, the subject makes me happy. It will not be the end of the debate. I'll try again. Maybe with long educational work et cetera. It was my concern to bring it closer to the House. But it is still my concern to address the issue of Eugenics, which my friend and colleague Dr. Hofer has brought to bear. Mrs. Colleague! They say one must not view the killing of unborn life morally. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: I didn't say that!]] – You said that, but sure; all here were witnesses! So if you are not allowed to moralize the killing of unborn life, in which Parliament of the world are we sitting?- Oh, my God! Please! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Executive Board of the University Women's Hospital Peter Husslein has literally said: "The legal regulation is very, very unsatisfactory. In practice these can be killed – disabled – “ children before birth by heartbeat. However, if the child survives, the same doctor must take life- sustaining measures.” And you'll find that all right?- Oh, my God! There's everything in your neck! I admit that you are right that you cannot deal with the subject of a drama that deserves to be treated attentively in a couple-minute debate, but it can be so muttered off, according to the principle that the belly belongs to me and what is being killed there, nobody does anything, that is not appropriate!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e17980	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig spoke on an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18005	Mr Fichtenbauer claimed that I would have said that the killing of unborn life should not be considered moralizing. – That’s not true! I said that the debate should not be moralised.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18052	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1953 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report in 1954. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1955 report of the supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We also come to the vote on item 24, the resolution on reform of the right of equal treatment for persons with disabilities annexed to the Committee's report in 1956, 1955/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 270.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the introduction of an automatic annual adjustment in the value of care payments to inflation. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. [[First the FPÖ delegates get up, then the Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Sigi!]] [[Mr Dolinschek stands up and the other members of the BZÖ are also present.]] [[Abg. Riepl: You are already so few at BZÖ and can't even get up together!]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its 1957 report of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:38:34]] 26. Point Report of the Tourism Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria 2011 (III-326/1915 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18140	We're going to the 26th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18168	Mr President. Mr. Minister! We report on the 2011 tourism report. I can support this report in good time and also for this extensive report to you, Mr Minister, but also to your staff, at Sectionschefin Mag. Udolf-Strobl and Mag. Toni Zimmermann thank you very much. The data we find in it are: 126 million stays, more than in 2010; 34 million arrivals in Austria. These are data that we can be proud of. In view of the difficult situations, the year 2011, as well as the year 2012, is another good year in Austrian tourism. The winter season we have ended was one of the best, and in summer we have a new increase: With almost 50 million nights we have a plus of 2.3 million. We can be proud of that. The growing international competitive pressure, the high indebtedness of many of our small businesses, the small structure of our tourism and the seasonal overcapacity are the cause of problems. A third of our businesses have less than €300 000 in turnover and 82 percent of businesses have less than € 1 million. It certainly helps the low interest rates that are currently being demanded, and also the support programmes. The farms are getting bigger, the hotels are heading for 43 beds. However, there are 57 beds in the EU section. With the four- to five-star operations we reached almost 100 beds per operation. So the way is also the right one here. Nothing is invested in quality and equipment as much as we do in Central Europe. In niches such as health tourism, Julian Hadschieff and Hans Schenner, the two business chamber supervisors, were also able to take the place of three out of 139 nations with “Best Health Austria” in Davos at the World Economic Forum. As far as the seasons are concerned, many businesses are trying to extend opening hours, probably also under the pressure of the labour market and with the aim of extending the season. The accused high debt of the industry results from a constant high level of investment by the companies. From these, carpenters, installers, tilers, builders, architects, civil engineers and many more benefit. The result is the best equipment and highest quality of operations, state-of-the-art infrastructure, most comfortable hotels, great ski lifts, safest ski lifts and cable cars, wellness facilities, fitness centres that you will find nowhere in this density anywhere in the world. The industry's value added is 89 percent in the regions of Austria and only 11 percent are imported. Mr Minister, the funding pyramid introduced a year ago. There are already savings that can be recorded. The Austrian Hotel Lodging Hand handles 2 500 funding cases with the countries. This means an annual investment sum of € 1 billion, which is actually used in the villages, in the valleys, in the region, in the countryside, in our home country. Mr Minister, thank you very much for this measure. However, I may also ask you to help with the introduction of limits in the model of liability of the ÖHT that they do not come because the Austrian hotel loyalty hand cannot be compared in all areas with the AWS. Employment in the gastronomy and hotel industry: 420 000 employees, an average of 220 000, 500 job seekers, were opposed to 1,700 apprenticeships. Tourism, of course, is also a training industry, and living hospitality, initiative and entrepreneurship create a lot for our home country. Even in international comparison, Austria is not bad, even if we had increased only 1 percent. That is why we are a little behind in the European comparison. Europe had 6 percent, and global economic growth in tourism was 4.4 percent. All in all, it would be a pity here, and the opposition will certainly also get this to this point, a pity at very, very high level. [[Abg. Markowitz: What was that? I didn't understand! Please, you can repeat it so I can hear it too! – Brightly!]] Tourism, my dear colleague, is the economic form with the largest distribution of wealth throughout the country, up to the mountains and into the valleys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18208	The next speaker was Mrs Silhavy. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18230	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The 2011 report on the situation provides very informative content on the tourism and leisure industry in Austria in eight topics. I would like to focus on Chapter 3 and briefly address the specificities of the tourist labour market. We had a recent debate at the last Committee meeting with experts on this subject. A problem arises from the fact that tourism is an entry-level industry for many and therefore has a high fluctuation, leading to a short duration of employment for many people. These people do not have any unemployment benefit to relate to the previous issue and the area of competence of the Minister for Social Affairs. Nevertheless, there is a high unemployment rate of 15.2 percent in the industry, which is certainly primarily due to the seasonal component. In this context, I would like to mention positively that, according to the report, the ÖHT-funded companies could increase the open-stop days from 280 days to 300 days within ten years. A good result, Mr. Hörl! Unfortunately, in the case of the sizes, the same success has not been shown, because after ten years there were only three more beds, the average size rose from 40 to 43 beds. There is certainly still a lot to be done so that the industry can also achieve better results in the field. It must be alarming for all of us, especially for the whole industry, that according to a current survey, only 27 percent of the labour force comes out with income, or that income is considered to be existential. Once again, I would like to point out that we are only starting with 1. December 2012 will implement a minimum wage of €1 300 for the entire industry, and I was very pleased that the Minister of State has also expressed his voice at the Committee meeting in connection with the lack of attractiveness of jobs for increasing the minimum wage. Tourism is a women's industry. 59 percent of the employees are women, but the executives are mostly male here too. We all know that especially the problem of reconciliation between work and family Well, Mr. Hörl, perhaps the fathers will look at the children in the future, then this problem will also be solved, or we will get better childcare facilities that also meet the requirements of these sectors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] So there is still a need for action. I would also like to comment on the initiative of our House, which was a five-party proposal, namely the improvements in services for train travelers. Minister! You have announced in the Committee that a presentation will follow. Perhaps you can tell us a little more about this today. In an interview today, you, Mr. Federal Minister, also indicated the BRIC countries as an advertising goal. I also read that the tourists from China are becoming more and more profitable. Some will probably have read it today. However, it is about watches and jewelry. I hope that this will also be reflected in the tourism industry and not only in the jewelry trade. Minister, my last point: They also called the summer freshness a chance today. In this context, I would be very interested in the extent to which the innovation chapter of the tourism strategy is implemented. Finally, I would like to thank the staff of the department because this report is really excellently structured and very informative.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18272	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Haider. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18294	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Thank you very much for this tourism report to the officials of the economic resort. It really shows the very positive development of tourism, which is so important for Austria, with 630 000 jobs and 126 million nights. The entire tourism and leisure industry directly and indirectly contributed 14.5 percent to the gross domestic product last year and created every fifth full-time job. Mr Hörl, it's true: Tourism is the economic sector with the greatest increase in prosperity. If the opposition now lays its hands on the wounds, yes, then it is not a pity at high level, because there is no need for tourism. This is not the merit of this federal government, however, that tourism has again written excellent figures and saved the balance of payments in the last years of crisis and so on in the previous year, but it can be said, despite the work of this Federal Government. I only recall the deterioration in the application rules, the cash movement regulation, the introduction of the ticket tax, the AMS manipulation fee, which is really anti-economic, the abolition of energy costs and additional wage increases, even the depreciation period is not adjusted at all, the VAT – all these are issues where you are sparse and only deterioration for the hard-working people, and since I am now creating entrepreneurs and employees in tourism companies in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So it almost sounds like a dangerous threat, as Mrs Finanzminister said this morning in her budget speech on tourism. Tourism, by the way, was designed with exactly three lines in the budget speech. The economics sector, Mr Hörl, which – your own words – is creating the largest increase in prosperity in Austria, is worth exactly three lines! I read this again: “Inland Austrian” – one could already question that in terms of tourism – “An additional focus is on the tourism strategy, especially with regard to the activities of Austria’s advertising and the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank Society.” That's what you want to focus on? . Let us remember that in recent years you have shortened the budgets by refusing to pay off inflation. So it almost sounds a dangerous threat when the Minister of Finance announces that he wants to intensify it even further.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18357	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18378	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I agree with the thanks to the staff in your house, also thanks to you, because you take tourism policy very seriously. It is also serious to take, because the tourism sector is characterised by its relatively stable profitability, I say. We have drops of wormwood, which also clearly illustrates this report. We have the difficulty of raising equity, we have the difficulty of burden, we have the difficulty of the shorter stay and we also have the difficulty in cash flow. So it's not all rosy in Weitem, but we still have a stable stand in tourism compared to other sectors. Personally, I always wonder how the various innkeepers manage to ensure such a high-level and high-quality offer at these prices. I also have comparisons abroad, and there is sometimes much less quality at sometimes much higher prices. This is quite an argument for many people to come to Austria on vacation, but unfortunately it is too few, too little, what the medium-term development is about. A suggestion for me: We would have to do something different in the funding policy and promote a certain project orientation. There must be more unique things that Austria offers. It must be something very special. When I ride my bike into Parliament, I come by it every day and see the incredibly many Japanese who cut the Parliament. I have already thought that it would have to be possible, even if only one cent were required of them to reorganise Parliament with these revenues. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and BZÖ.]] There really is an incredible number of interested people in the ambience of Austria. We need to find a little bit more in the lubrication of revenue, because what we offer is really very good. We just have to sell it better, and the unique one has to come to the fore. I will now also be contributing to this, because I am now buying extra Austrian products again and taking them to the IPU to Canada. And with that I'll get some Canadians back to Austria, not only because of the Mozart balls, but also because of our other specialties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18427	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18448	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to thank you, because this report is really good, as we have already discussed in the Committee. It delivers good numbers and is above all very clear. Mr. Hörl, despite your queer existence – yes, really! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You've got to say that straight and clear. Nevertheless, we are able to make five-party requests. It is only thanks to the fact that other colleagues, unlike you, are really working constructively. Minister! We have looked at the tourism figures and also the value added of the industry. In 2011, it was 14.6 percent of GDP and 15.1 percent in 2010. We also discussed in the Committee that we must pay particular attention to the fact that the market share is not falling now. We really have to do something about the trend. I think it's really positive that we could create apprenticeships, because that's the most important thing, isn't it, Mr. Hörl? You said, among other things, that we have 1,700 seekers and 500 open teaching places. We cannot simply move on to the agenda, we have to do something about it. You, Mr Minister, are perhaps invited to develop a new strategy with us. It's really positive that there's someone in Salzburg who said: Okay, I don't find any more apprentices, so I'm even willing to finance a driver's license to create an incentive for job seekers. Perhaps we also have to think of something new, even once creative and say: Okay, we know there are nine federal states, divided into different districts, so apprentices often have to take on various long journeys. We need to consider whether we may not be promoting a driving licence for apprentices in tourism. Perhaps that's the solution to the problem. [[Abg. Honey: An annual ticket!]] - Yes, annual card. Why not? Both! There are yes, please, but already the apprenticeship support. Why not support a driver's license? [[Abg. Booker: You have a driver's license for the whole life!]] There is no need to step back into the Middle Ages. Not everyone has to go to work with the horse carriage. The times are over! What is still important to me, Mr Minister, is that we really should not create campaigns, for example, to drive to Spain to bring new skilled workers to Austria, because we really have no more opportunities to find a few apprentices in Austria. [[Abg. Riepl: To Carinthia!]] So if it's ready, good night, Republic. [[Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti: Have you found one, Mr. Colleague?]] We are constantly looking for YIT and tourism. I know how difficult it is. I am perfectly right in giving you, but then together we need to see that we find solutions that give Austrian young people a chance in our country to have a good job later on. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are also those who will pay us the pensions once. I do not like this lapidar treatment of the problems in tourism at all, I have to say that again and clearly now. That's where the clock really shows five to twelve. You can't miss anything now. It's nice that we still have an industry where there are more open apprenticeships than apprentices. Let us take advantage of this opportunity and finally make good apprentices in Austria. Together! And then I'm convinced that we'll make it united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18540	Mr Markowitz, I think you have inadvertently missed the choice of words when you called colleagues Hörl quesulants. I suppose you're apologizing right away, aren't you? [[Abg. Markowitz: (on the way to his seat) Yes, I am totally sorry!]] Did you apologise now? - No? [[Abg. Hörl: This is the usual Jargon of BZÖ!]] - Did he do it? [[Abg. Bucher: Sure! It's loud and clear!]] - Then let's leave it. The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18605	Mr President. Minister! High house! Yes, Austria is a tourist country, whether in winter or summer, in the city or in the countryside. It is known for cultural and wellness tourism, it is always a sought-after destination for congress and seminar tourism. In 2011, there was not the dream figures one hoped for, but overall, successful countermeasures really countered, so that bad things could be prevented. In this context, it should be noted that the 2012 summer season has surpassed the 2011 trend in netting and sales. For example, statistics in Vorarlberg show that from May to August this year there were 4.3 percent more holidaymakers and 2.8 percent more nights than in the same period of the previous year. And we also expect an increase compared to 2011 for the winter season. The employment factor shows us that every fifth full-time job depends on the tourism and leisure industry. 59 percent, which has already been mentioned, are women, so tourism is a female issue, but unfortunately not in the leadership positions, because there are only 4 percent women who are in top positions in tourism. So that's where we need to catch up. We should pay great attention to the apprenticeship problem, as in 2011 1 720 open apprenticeships were available. Only 426 young people accepted them. However, there are many opportunities in tourism, there are also cooks who enjoy high reputation, there are many other professions that have great future prospects. Something has to be done. Looking back on 2011, however, one can say calmly that despite difficult economic conditions, it was a positive year for Austrian tourism, and development in 2012 also points in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18645	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18667	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, the measures of the Federal Government cannot really have been as bad as Austria is not only very good at tourism, but also in the international comparison throughout the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The framework conditions are therefore not so bad, and the framework conditions are already being created by the Federal Government – you should really leave the church in the village! We know how important tourism is for Austria because of the number of employees and also because of the share of value added in gross domestic product. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The fact that tourism has come through the crisis so far is obvious. In order for us to continue to play ahead in the future, we must not only pay attention to the quality and situation of tourism companies, but also to We offer high-quality jobs, but especially future-oriented training for young people. The report on the tourism and leisure industry in Austria is very extensive, but it also shows the problem areas that are undoubtedly present in tourism. The economic situation in the hotel industry has already been discussed, I do not want to go into it any more. There is still a lot to do in order to be able to compete with the other tourist destinations in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is the Day of Teaching. Today, the Minister of Economic Affairs has honoured some excellent teaching companies – I have taken this from the Internet. What we lack in Austria, especially in tourism: The image and the View of the teaching professions in tourism does not seem to be particularly good or high. This is a reason for the high fluctuation, although the apprenticeship training, the dual system is currently being copied by many European countries as the best practice system. Other reasons for the high fluctuations in tourism and the leisure industry may be poor working conditions and low pay. On working conditions: Clearly, staff in tourism companies will have to work if others enjoy leisure time, and therefore friendship relationships are very difficult to maintain. However, in international comparison, ladies and gentlemen, there is an ambivalent picture. While in Austria we have too few apprentices – because we also have a drop in young people – there are almost 50 percent youth unemployment in other countries. In Austria, on the other hand, the shortage of skilled workers is becoming more and more evident. I am not necessarily of the opinion of Mr Markowitz: The action of the ÖHV, the Austrian Hotel Association, which makes it a virtue and offers jobs to Spanish workers in the tourist country Austria, can only be a temporary measure, but is welcome because it reduces the shortage of skilled workers in the country, in Austria and, on the other hand, the unemployment problem in a crisis-stricken EU country. Nevertheless, this must not be misleading about the situation in Austria, especially today, on the day of teaching, that we must pay more attention to the recruitment of skilled workers. It is important to me, in conclusion, that this initiative should not lead to our excellent dual training system being carried so secretly through these measures. Therefore: We must also pay very high attention to the training of young people in the teaching industry in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18740	The next speaker was Mr Linder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18761	Mr President. Minister! Tourism not only lives on the big hotels, the large businesses, but also in many small businesses, in many small communities tourism takes place. The diversity of tourism is beautiful for Austria and is significant, and I think that should be promoted. But I am now bringing an example from our community, which should encourage us to think a little bit. With us an event is organized each year, the night of music. That's where the clubs work, organize this night of music. The profit flows into a cultural fund and is again used for association promotion. This is a very, very important event for tourism. However, from the law, all members of the association who work there must be registered with social security. That is, every club that participates must register the respective members. These were a total of seven employees, seven club members who worked there. As they have all made it useless, the following comes out: for the Sportverein 38 Cent, for the Turnverein 38 Cent, for the SC-MTB MIRONOCK 38 Cent and for the village community 1,52 €. In other words, an employee in the community has worked for a whole day to find the data of these people, to report them to the local health insurance fund, to register and to register the local health insurance fund so that a total of €2.76 comes in – and the clubs say: You know what, we're whistling on it! Make your own event, see where you get the guests! – Minister, I think we should take this to heart! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We should really be looking for a common solution in this area – for the associations that make an unprofitable event that will really help us to get to the top of tourism. I deliberately waive a request because I hope that we will find a solution with a five-party agreement and do not continue to encourage such stupidity – for 2,76 € for a whole day a municipal employee and a few employees in the local health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18807	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18828	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Linder, I am very happy to look at the example, but our tourism and leisure industry has exactly the opposite problem, which is that tent festivals and others – the rifts – compete. I cannot imagine that if this was not for a longer time, it was intended for work, that all these restrictions would occur. We like to look at this, but that is – with all due respect – an example from a community. The development in the tourism sector as a whole – already mentioned by previous speakers – has actually been very positive. Whether the economy has developed well, or whether we have had a crisis, tourism has actually been very stable. In 2011, we had 126 million nights and therefore de facto the level we had in 2008 – that is, in a phase and a situation of the high economy. As far as arrivals are concerned, we have achieved record values both for foreigners and for nationals. The only problem is: The record values were, of course, linked to the fact that the revenues have not yet taken on the development we had before – but we are there too. With regard to the countries from which guests come, Russia with 25.6 percent increase is simply very positive to rate Spain with 11.3 percent, Poland with 6.7 percent, Japan with an increase of 6.2 percent. Even if you, Mrs Moser, find the Japanese constantly: They are already being overtaken by the Chinese. So there are quite some interesting tendencies. In 2011 – we are talking about the 2011 tourism report – in Germany and the Netherlands we have had an unfortunately decrease of around 2% and in the UK of 4.6 percent. However, as far as urban tourism is concerned, where we had a huge breakdown in 2009, we had an increase of 8.7 percent in 2010 and an increase of 4.9 percentage points in 2011. So that's a trend that's going to be positive. Mrs Moser, because the unique one of you has been addressed: In the final effect, we have tried to achieve exactly that with our tourism strategy, the single setting feature, the Unique Selling Proposition – as far as the Alps are concerned, as far as the lakes and the Danube are concerned, and of course also the big city area with the historical buildings. And when you look at Vienna – but also other major cities –: This strategy has just been welcomed. Also what we had last year with regard to the credit volume: We have had an increase of 5 per cent in the amount of loans funded, to € 212.4 million. That is to say, in the clear text, the companies there were optimistic and have also invested accordingly. Mr Haider, what you have quoted in relation to bar movement regulation and other conditions – all this has a plus and a minus. Of course, it is also about having control of the Black Market Developments and other appropriate regulations and not to let the administration grow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Haider.]] I think that's a good thing. But what's much more essential: We all have to say one thing in times of budget development, because you have quoted it: Whether this happens with two or three sentences in the speech or in the report is insignificant. The importance can be read from the economic data. And if someone doesn't appear in the budget report or in the speech, it doesn't mean he's working badly. This is rather an indication that we are working well here – and this is what tourism is doing, and we can only thank for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, we have also been able to maintain the budgets of Austria's advertising while reducing it in other areas. Of course, it is clear that we want to adapt to inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief look at the year 2012: What's going on, and how's it going? – In the final effect, we will be back on record – as far as the figures on arrivals and nights are concerned. In my opinion, this is not always due to the good weather, but of course also to the outflow of the strategy. We have also managed to reverse the trend. It has been mentioned today: Germany was negative – now positive trend, 2.2 percent increase, the Netherlands even 5.1 percent. You remember what I said last year: 2 per cent decline, other countries detto. So now we have a different development and we are fighting for market share – I have to admit quite openly. In reality, everyone else does exactly the same thing as we do. Because sometimes a little laugh is being made that we now focus on Brazil, India, China – whoever –: I'm just telling you what the expenditure is: A Chinese spends an average of €219 on the visit, an Indian 218 € and a German 110 €. So in India – the reports show – in a few years, we have 600 million well-equipped, travel-interested people. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to give up time, two more points: The minimum wage – it has been addressed – is the case of the collective contractual partners. I would also like more than €1 300; but that will not be crucial, but the additional incentives. And I am glad that tourism with the Austrian card offers several other offers and discounts for apprentices in this area. I think this is particularly positive. Last but not least the summer freshness: Look It may still be in the exhibition in the National Library on the previous orientations that our companies had. Much has now been resettled because of seminars and other priorities. I think that there and there, especially in the regional area, the summer freshener could be refreshed again, so to speak, and have the potential to become a sales provider in turn. In this sense: Tourism is good on the road – thanks, of course, to the performance of the companies and their employees; however, the conditions will not be wrong, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18928	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e18950	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I looked at this exhibition, and although I actually wanted to talk about it, I tell you: These posters for the summer freshness are really impressive. The only problem is that the spatial planning policy of the last decades has led to a completely different view of the landscapes that are very idyllic and beautiful there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:More beautiful!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the tourism report, there is a chapter on the labour market, which has a whole six pages. I do not want to quote from that, but I say what you do not find in this report: the fact that two thirds of all tourism workers are dissatisfied – dissatisfied with their income, with working hours and with stress. A third of all employees would rather leave the industry today than tomorrow, precisely for these reasons. – I think we have a problem, and I'm not just saying that as an employee's spokesperson, please. Imagine: In Austria a guest has a 33 percent chance to encounter a satisfied and motivated employee. You don't think that's about? – This, of course, speaks with the guests, and especially with the potential employees. [[Abg. Hörl: That's why more and more are coming!]] This is true of the young people who do not want to do these lessons, those who have completed the teaching, who change the industry as soon as possible, or those who want to make a career, so to speak, and go abroad for it. [[Abg. Hörl: They want to see dissatisfied people, so come more!]] Something like that speaks around. What is your answer? – PR measures. I don't think that's gonna be enough. We know it's not enough. Or you can get the employees from abroad – Spain; the charm on the Salzburger Schihütten has been sprayed by Saxony for a long time. This is interesting for our culture, but if tourism is political and above all labour market policy, you should discuss it already, I think. We simply need better framework conditions, fairer wages, better working hours, a right to have at least a free Sunday a month – there is no need for such a thing – and we also need to respect existing labour rights. In 70 percent of all companies controlled in 2011, there were labour rights violations, 70 percent! – You do not find that in this report either. That's why I'm saying: Okay, the other chapters are rated as good, it's also good that there is a chapter on the labour market at all, but in order to be able to really work on it productively, we need something more.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19019	The next speaker was Mr Pack. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19040	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! The tourism report – which my previous speakers have already mentioned – is very impressive. 126 million nights speak for themselves. The tourism country Austria is in principle well positioned. Of course, it is clear that it can be better again and again. The Federal Minister briefly addressed the campaigns in the area of summer freshness or also the area of destination development. I think it must be underlined that we certainly have much more potential there. Austria is very close to tourism. We have the Austrian advertising, we have the individual national departments, the country tourism offices, we have regional offices, we have in the communities people who care about tourism. There is a great deal of potential, human capital, which can be used even better when it comes to developing a destination accordingly. I believe that in the future it is necessary, in particular, to address these people even more and to intensify the networking of federal, state, local and regional authorities and associations in order to make better use of this capital in order to improve the development of the regions so that new markets can also be addressed, because new markets in particular are safeguarding the operating structures in our regions. This will be the next challenge, because in my regions alone – in the East Styria and in the Thermenland Styria – there are a lot of good houses that are very well managed. However, these are, in part, directly prior to the transfer to successors and, of course, there is also a need for a correspondingly large concept, also as regards the development of the entire destination, so that a successor solution can be found. In this sense: The report is very good – and of course also thanks to the staff of the department for the processing of the data.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19080	Next speaker: Mr Hell. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19102	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The importance of tourism for the Austrian economy has already been addressed by eleven of my previous speakers, I may also mention a number. It is about the value added of tourism. There is a forecast for the year 2011 from Statistics Austria, which presents these figures with €22 billion for Austria. I believe that this also confirms the importance of tourism for us, for people in this country and, of course, for employees. A common tourism policy that ensures and creates good conditions is an essential basis for this development. However, the business initiatives, the interaction between tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and the 180 000 employees who are ultimately responsible for the excellent performance of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria are also equally important. Tourism is very broad and we have heard it today. There is a point in the report that deals with conference and conference tourism. For the first time, it refers to detailed statistical studies of how tourism has developed in this area. In the year under review, some 6,000 congresses with 680 000 participants took place. On average, 16.7 congresses were held in Austria a day. Why is this area so important for tourism development? – Especially in urban tourism, the nocturnal share of conference tourism already accounts for more than 10 percent. About 4.5 nights spend conference participants in Vienna, and their daily effort is an average of €475; a leisure tourist brings it to around €270. Therefore, the added value of this tourism area is also extremely important. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a matter of giving tourism, above all, the necessary framework conditions. It is about offering quality before quantity. And in this sense I am not worried about future tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19147	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19168	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: (as not Federal Chancellor Faymann, but Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner is sitting on the government bank) There you are a bit confused with “Mr. Vice chancellor” and “Mr. Bundeskanzler”! Should I congratulate the Federal Chancellor?]] I think not only 2011 was a good year for tourism, but also 2012. With 126 million stays and more than 34.6 million guests in Austria, we are very good on the road. We must not forget one thing: the enormous international competitive pressure under which tourism in Austria also stands. It is important to analyse the economic situation and the economic data of our guest countries in detail and also to develop new areas. The Federal Minister has already mentioned this, pointing to the markets for the future, the so-called emerging countries, has led Brazil and India. I think it is very important to include this in the tourism marketing. In terms of development trends, we need to focus even more on these stakeholders, to put them to the vote. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Hörl.]] It is also gratifying that summer tourism is on the rise, especially urban tourism and, of course, local markets, short holidays, which are often weather dependent. The basis for tourism in Austria is, of course, our strong companies, the companies, the employees who, by their qualifications, ensure the success of the businesses, and the framework conditions, on the one hand, our geographical situation, especially in winter sports, on the other, but also the security in the state and, above all, the stable political situation, which many of our guests very much impress. Not to be forgotten are the cuisine and the landscape that are a giant bonus for Austria. This is, of course, the basis for the work of the Austrian farmers. This is also an example of the importance of the common agricultural policy in Europe, which has its effect far beyond the agricultural production sector. I would also like to speak here for the wine-growing sector, which is very important as a supporter of tradition, culture and the formation of landscape elements for tourism. When we look at the international trend, we see that wine tourism is becoming increasingly interesting. Therefore, I hope that Austria's advertising and Austrians will be even more focused on this segment and will continue the successful path for Austrian tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19219	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19240	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In an economically difficult time, Austria has, as we know, the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union at 4.4 percent. Tourism also has a large share of this. I would like to stress that tourism in Austria is, of course, a job engine and, at the same time, is very much involved in the creation of value in Austria. 126 million appointments in 2011 – an increase of 0.9 percent compared to the 2010 comparison period. In addition, excellent values in the domestic population as well as a good balance in the employment of foreigners speak a clear language. I would also like to mention that in the past we have invested in the quality of tourism in a targeted and accurate manner, including in the 4- and 5-star destinations. It is essential that, if we want to maintain our international market share, we continue to invest in the quality of tourism in the future, especially as regards the 4- and 5-star destinations. However, we also need to address even more intensive new guest shifts, for example from Eastern Europe or from the Asian region; some examples have already been addressed. Ladies and gentlemen. One important point in tourism is also the situation of the workers I would like to highlight briefly. We know that 5.6 percent of all employed workers in Austria find work in the tourism sector, of which almost two thirds are women. There is a lot to be criticised in connection with the situation of employees. A wormhead drop is, for example, the irregular working hours. However, there is also a falling labour satisfaction of employees. In a survey, only 27 percent of tourism workers reported that their income is life-saving. I would point out that the minimum wage of 1 300 € gross-to, the one from 1st. December 2012 is required by law, a first step in the right direction. I can mention that the 2011 tourism report also shows positive figures for the Burgenland. 2011 – a year in which there was a record in Burgenland. In 2012, we were still able to increase this record by 0.3 percent until now. I am optimistic and confident that we will either succeed in breaking through the sound wall of 3 million nights in 2012 or 2013, of course because we are increasingly investing in year-round destinations and also in the development of the 4 and 5 star categories. Of course, the Burgenland has start-ups due to its unique cultural and natural landscape, but also the excellent cuisine plays a major role. The wine – it has already been mentioned – is a very essential export product. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – The Burgen-based winegrowers deserved this applause. Also because of the fact that the Burgenland had 1 300 hours of sunshine in 2011, according to Statistics Austria, I look forward positively to the further development of tourism in the country. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something about the Burgenland winegrowers!]] I am very grateful to all the experts in the Ministry for the drafting of the highly compiled 2011 tourism report and also look forward to the development of tourism in 2012 and 2013. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19283	Next speaker: Mr Praßl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19304	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Tourism is on a very successful course with us in Austria. If you look at the 2011 data and see the number of guests – the millions who visit us – you can see that there is a lot going on in Austria in the tourism sector. In 2010, the number was slightly lower, but in one year the increase of 1 percent could be achieved. Austria achieves excellent values in tourism. Why? – The many people who come to Austria – whether from Russia, Japan, Poland or Spain, from any country – are happy to come because they want to see Austria and experience what is happening here. The training and training of employees in the accommodation establishments is very important. The people employed there have wonderful conversations with the guests, have a great innovation power and enormous performance. Their use is tireless, and they do not ask for the number of hours they need to serve. I can only say one thing here – it has already been discussed and talked a lot –: You can be glad to live in Austria. And we can be very proud of our country and of the fact that many foreign guests want to make vacations with us. In this sense, I can only say one thing: I wish all those who want to open up a housing company in the future, all the good for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19350	Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger is the last speaker on this item in the agenda. 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19371	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would now like to join the previous speakers and congratulate you on the tourism report. It is really a very successful work, a good reference work. We have heard a lot about the report on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry today, and I believe we all agree that this factor is an important part of the Austrian economy. I do not want to look more closely at the figures, the facts and the facts. As I said, I'm the 15. Speaker, and we've heard the numbers 15 times. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: 14 times!]] – I am the 15th, the Minister would have been the 16th. However, I still think that we should look at reality and that it would be good – this is now also a request to the chairman of the Tourism Committee – if one could bring this committee into existence a little more often, because I think that within ten months two committees will be in place, is a little bit. In any case, it will also be exciting to learn what consequences will be drawn from this report. I believe that storing the report somewhere in a box is certainly not the right way. We should not simply go to the agenda like this. I know the tourism industry and the leisure industry. Not only was I allowed to do a training in this field, but I have grown up in this business and have had the happiness of working as a youth. I know from my own experience that there are very simple situations in which things have to be decided spontaneously. It is about the framework conditions in tourism and the leisure industry, and these must be created or released here by us in the House. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to invite you to us once to Gumpoldskirchen. I believe that our mayor Ferdinand Köck – who belongs to your group but is still a very good mayor – would very much like to have an event together with me, where we will simply give you the opportunity to talk to those concerned. In fact, it is about unfinancing investment opportunities, difficulties in taking up businesses, when businesses are moving from their parents to their children, and a shortage of skilled workers. Mr Federal Minister, I would be pleased to welcome you very soon to us in Gumpoldskirchen.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19408	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I should like to ask the honourable Members to take the place of the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Tourism to take note of this report III-326 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:34:32]] 27. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1905 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Certification by Consular Authorities (Consular Certification Act – KBeglG) (1945 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19459	We're on the 27th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Hakl. 4 minutes speaking time is set. I would draw attention to the fact that only three speakers have spoken; we will then come back to a vote. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19493	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We decide here a legal basis for an exercise that has already been planned for a long time, which has been maintained abroad on the basis of international law and on the basis of a regulation only to the great satisfaction of our citizens. Now there is a concrete legal basis with really excellent improvements to how certifications by our consular authorities and over-certifications in the foreign office are to take place in the future. Two changes in addition to the fact that there are now really clear rules and innovations that have been introduced at the same time seem important to me. On the one hand: If it appears that a document is falsified, the content is incorrect, the consular authorities may for the time being waive a certification. In fact, there have been forgery bands that have faked documents in order. These have gone with a copy, a very simple copy to the respective consulates, and they have then confirmed, yes, that is the real copy of this fake document, and have also had to confirm it. With this officially certified document, the appearance of authenticity was strengthened even further. Now we finally have a hand against the abuse of this certification practice, as it happened in some countries and unfortunately also in Austria and also had to happen. It is also important that electronic certifications will also be possible in the future. This is particularly important for our export industry, as in experiments of the Chamber of Commerce, for example, certificates of origin with electronic signature can already be issued very successfully. These and other export-needed certificates will also be electronically certified in the future. I thank you for the good legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19537	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19560	Mr President. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a few words on this very exciting subject; it has already been explained a lot. Before this draft law, only certifications made by Austrian representatives abroad were legally regulated, which was a little absurd. However, these rules did not apply to the certifications made by the legalisation office of the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Therefore, it was the next logical step to create clear rules for certifications both by the legalisation office of the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs and by the Austrian representative authorities abroad. This regulation has now been created, which is reflected in the Consular Certification Act, and we will in principle agree to this proposal. Positive points have also been mentioned, namely that a corresponding regulation allows certifications of certificates of origin and other export documents with electronic signatures. This, of course, represents a significant improvement for entrepreneurs. In addition, it also brings more legal certainty for many Austrians abroad. Finally, something that has already been a major issue and which has been taken up by my predecessor, namely that, especially in the event of due doubt, so-called certifications can now be rejected by the authorities abroad. However, I would also like to use this item on the agenda to a very different extent, which has to do with it only indirectly. Mr Minister, if you are already here, I would like to address something that I have mentioned briefly in the Committee, namely the question of our real estate, which we have abroad, in principle, embassies, consular authorities, cultural institutions, whatever. I hear again and again when I have discussions with diplomats somewhere that there is a intention to sell real estate in some countries, for example in Italy, in Rome, for cost reasons, which might also become budget-effective. But we all know that we will never get these real estates that we sell today again at such favourable conditions. And especially in times like those in which private people are increasingly going to invest their money in real estate, if you want to do so, the Republic should Austria at least does not buy new properties, but does not simply sell those it has. This has nothing to do with our attitude in this regard that messages could be saved there and there, and finally these real estates could be used differently. For example, we could rent them to do something for the budget in one form or another. I am now speaking specifically to Rome, where I have heard that one of the two embassies, the Vatican or the other, which are both beautiful, should be sold. I would ask you to consider this and to keep that treasure that Austria still has there.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19616	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19640	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! The subject is indeed exciting, so I join my previous speaker. We also support this proposal, which sets out clear rules for certifications both by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and by the consular authorities. However, with regard to the certifications, there are some problems which you – you in particular – should not be strange, Mr. Federal Minister. I would like to give a brief description of a case that has been brought to us in the last few weeks and which is exemplary for many other cases. We have a message in Abuja, which is, as it were, responsible for some West African states. In this case, this is a student from Togo, who has received a certificate of admission from the University of Vienna, thus having received the right to study here in Vienna, and who in the end had to appear three times in the Austrian Embassy in Abuja in order to handle the entry formalities. The cost of the official routes, including air tickets, amounts to € 5 000 to € 6 000, and the average togolesian income of approximately € 250 per month. – In some cases, we deal with people who have received an approval notice. In principle, this lady also voted all the documents, but still she had to fly to Abuja three times: once for the over-certification of the documents, once for the residence title as a student, for the submission, and then for a third time for the application for the entry visa. She was told again and again that she had to appear personally, that it was not possible for her to send the documents by post, or that someone who is authorized to do so in her name. So these are also specific cases and specific problems in issuing certifications, which we should also consider. We will agree to this proposal, but we also support it and assume that the law will not create additional obstacles and that you, Mr Minister, you will look at the problems currently facing certifications, but also with regard to other formalities with the representative authorities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19680	Mr Spindelegger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19701	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to explain the figures. We see that there can be problems here and there, of course. If we had to make 34 000 certifications to representative authorities in 2011, then it may be that in one case or another something may not have happened as it should. We have done 17 000 certifications here in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last year. So in this number, over 50,000 a year, you can't in any case try all the details to make it right for people. I would like to be prepared to look at this case in concrete terms. If you pass on these data to me, we will be happy to take a look at it in detail. But it's clear: It is about legal certainty, and legal certainty already requires an examination, which is not easy to handle via the post and remotely. There is already a need for some accuracy in order to be able to make such a certification in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. In general, however, I would like to thank the fact that it is possible to adopt this with the votes of all the political groups. On behalf of Mr Karlsböck: We can also talk about it. I now intend to make one in Rome, namely four different institutions, and I ask you to understand. If, as a foreign minister, we have four different representation authorities in one city, it will be allowed to think about whether one can not make two of them and thus find the way out. This is not primarily about real estate, but about savings through efficiency improvement. We are doing so in other areas, too, in order to meet the budget targets. Of course, I am happy to be at your disposal for a personal conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19744	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1905 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:46:03]] 28. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1812, e.g._Other Organiser Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Humiliating Treatment or Punishment (1940, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19799	We're coming to 28. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Marek has spoken. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19826	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The World Conference on Human Rights took place in Vienna in June 1993. The main outcome of the conference was the determined demand that efforts to eradicate torture should focus primarily on prevention. At the time, the conference called on Vienna to decide on an optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. ==References====External links== In June 2006, it entered into force and currently has 62 Contracting States. Nine other states have only signed it at present, including Austria on 25 July. ==References== The aim is to establish a global system for the prevention of torture based on a two-pillar system, which provides for the establishment of both an international and a national visitor mechanism. The international pillar is the UN Subcommittee on the Prevention of Torture. It shall carry out visits in the Contracting States and shall communicate its recommendations and observations to the Contracting State. With today's decision, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is now also ratifying OPCAT's optional protocol, after in recent months we have also created the necessary instruments and framework conditions for the second, the national pillar. ==References== July 2012 is the People's Procuratorate responsible for the protection and promotion of human rights, and I believe we can say with fug and law that the People's Procuratorate will be the human rights house of the Republic of Austria in the future through this new competence. In this capacity, the public prosecutorship will control and visit around 4,000 public and private institutions such as judicial institutions, psychiatric institutions, old-age and nursing homes, crisis centres and many more. The public prosecutors will also set up commissions which will actually carry out these checks on the ground and then prepare a report to the public prosecutors. The Human Rights Advisory Council, which has re-established this April, will take on a very important advisory role for the People's Procuratorate. In future, due to the new legal basis, the public prosecutorship will provide even more detailed activity reports, which is very welcome, especially for Parliament. It will also publish an annual report on its activities as a national prevention mechanism and forward it to the UN Subcommittee on the Prevention of Torture. Ladies and gentlemen, we can say that today's decision is another milestone in the fight for human rights, and we can be proud of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19882	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19903	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already explained very thoroughly and well what the meaning of OPCAT is. In any case, the main thrust of the matter must be combated preventively, torture and degrading treatment or punishment, so that they cannot take place at all. I can tell from my own experience that I was a member of the Vienna City Penal Enforcement Commission for many years. Once a month, we have unannounced a prison, visited a judicial guard and talked there with both inmates and employees, where there are problems. Very often these were everyday problems, which were not particularly big at all. Fortunately, torture and also humiliating treatment or punishment have never accommodated me in all these years. I am quite sure that we would have had this instrument or a similar instrument, as we set it up at the public prosecutor's office before the summer, a few decades ago and if Commissions could have taken a picture on the ground, then there would be many incidents that we all very much regret. all in homes, in facilities where children or young people and partly mentally disabled people have been accommodated, have occurred a few decades ago, even in Austria. So this dissuasive element of both the national control instruments and the work of the Subcommittee on the Prevention of Torture at the UN level are certainly two very important instruments for us to move forward in the direction that all human rights in Austria really apply to all people. Last week in the Human Rights Committee, I pointed out that we still have a gap in the whole issue of preventing torture, namely those in criminal law. Of course, torture de facto is also prohibited in criminal law, but there is not really well defined. We have been promised in the discussion with the Minister of Justice that this year we will be able to expect a presentation here in the house and, in some cases, the novelle to the Criminal Law will enter into force next year – which I think is very important, for we remember dramatic incidents, such as those involving Bacary J., which took place in the course of police acts, in which I am not sure whether we could have been better off dealing with these cases with better equipment even in the criminal law. In this sense, I welcome, on the one hand, the ratification of OPCAT, but of course also the announced closure of the gap concerning the ban on torture in the criminal law. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19942	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e19964	Greetings, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Huber: Greeting God!]] We too will agree to this agreement. We have already done so in the committee, but the reasons put forward by my colleagues so far cannot be contradicted. Mrs Bayr, Austria is certainly not a torture state. I do not believe that what we are now getting into the country about the subjugation of this optional protocol as an domestic column, namely the supervision of our justice by a public prosecutor, is necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bayr: This is part of the agreement!]] We have clear criminal regulations. We have supervisory authorities. We have a functioning judicial system in this regard. We don't need that. Mrs Bayr! But it would need those – and this is the tragedy; then I come back to what we discussed at the Landmines Convention a year ago – who do not sign it, let alone ratify it. But by introducing this because we don't need it to create new bureaucracy, new jobs, we don't even help those who would need it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Marek, unfortunately, I also have to say clearly to you: A milestone in the enforcement of human rights is not that if we ratify it in Austria. Since you already think Austria is a very bad state, if it is a milestone for the enforcement of human rights, that we are deciding on anti-torture facilities in Austria, which we do not need here. [[Abg. Bayr: Inhuman treatment!]] Look Please, on a map who signs it, who signs it, let alone ratifys it! Sign and ratify, this is a further way, as we ourselves know, because we signed the Convention, I think, 2006 – or when was that, Mr. Minister? [[Call the ÖVP:2003!]] - Or we already signed it in 2003. Well, that's a long way from 2003 to 2012! We are not ratifying the agreement now because we have come to believe that torture is a major problem in Austria, but because we have candidates for the United Nations Human Rights Committee and because we have committed ourselves to signing this optional protocol – and thus to introducing a completely unnecessary further bureaucratic control. Who signed it? – Well, I do not want to be polemic now and again call the Vatican State, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria and Switzerland. Interestingly, it has also signed and ratified Kazakhstan and Liberia. - Well, it's not bad. But: no sign, let alone ratification of Russia, China and, of course, the illustrious examples of the Western community of values USA or Israel. So States that even practice this, which practice it half legally or fully legally or within the limits of legality, do not, of course, sign this agreement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] Those who have prohibited it by law, but who practice, like many states in Black Africa and in the Arab world, do not, of course, sign the agreement, do not even have a discussion process. I believe that the only subcontracting country in the Arab world has so far been Tunisia. That's why: Yes, we sign it, because we have committed ourselves to it. Why should we vote against it now? But to celebrate or to rejoice or to speak of milestones, we do not need to do this in front of the not very many public audiences of our voters and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20055	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Korun. I would draw attention to the fact that she is the last speaker on this item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20077	Ladies and gentlemen! For us, in contrast to the liberals today is a day of joy, because after nine years – late, but still – the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture is ratified. It has already been said: It was signed in 2003. Some years have passed and the Greens have been pressing for the Optional Protocol to be ratified as soon as possible since it was signed. I would also like to mention here that it is very welcome and very good that the Federal Government has also provided sufficient resources for the good work of the Commissions, which are now located in the public prosecutors in order to do this preventive work against torture. I do not want this work to be taken seriously by the Federal Government, and I would like to expressly praise it. On the other hand, something was missed, for which it would have been most time. The public prosecutor's order mode dates back to 1977 and is clearly outdated. The assessment of the International Coordination Committee for National Human Rights Institutions also shows that, because of the order mode of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it has not granted us a so-called A status, that is, the best status, but only a B status. This was also the case during the OPCAT implementation negotiations. That hasn't found a majority. But over a short or long time – rather short than long – there is no way that clear quality criteria are introduced for the order mode of the Volksanwälte and Volksanwälten. It was at least possible to include in the law at least a minimum technical requirement of knowledge and the functioning of the administration and knowledge in the field of human rights. However, this is not enough in the long run, and it is necessary to create transparency, to change order mode and to address skills more, all the more so, as the lawyers and lawyers have now received much more competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20119	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request of the Foreign Policy Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1812 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Foreign Policy Committee, the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language version of this State Treaty, in accordance with Article 49(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, to announce that they are engaged in public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. [[21:00:07]] 29. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1831, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United Mexican States on cultural exchange (1941 D.B.) 30. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1911, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Albania on cooperation concerning the lending of objects of their moving State cultural heritage for exhibitions on the territory of the other State (1942 d.a.) 31. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1912, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on cooperation in the fields of culture, education and science (1943 D.B.) 32. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1913, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol to terminate the Consular Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Republic of Romania (1944 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20213	We shall now proceed to items 29 to 32 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Fichtenbauer spoke. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20241	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We have been talking about this matter in the Committee for a short time now. The notes I brought are not a terrifying volume of my executions, but only a mechanical tool. Of course, this project sounds very good, but – to say it all around – we reject it because it is obviously a boot spoon for returning to the so-called spring crown. I am therefore not saying the popular word “Montezuma crown” because now also “Kronen Zeitung” readers know that it is not the Montezuma crown, but just a spring crown. And it is the only preserved cultural heritage of this kind all over the world. I add that it is my firm conviction and also that of other cultural scientists that if this crown had not come to Central Europe in good time, to Austria and had become part of the Ambras collection – and is now in the museum in Vienna – this would of course no longer exist. Such crowns were twenty times or one hundred times – of course we do not know exactly that. They were cultic objects and all disappeared. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Now I'd say, May the Mexican people under Conchero dancer Gomora, who made a kind of world business out of this recovery affair and always dances around the Stephansplatz, be happy that the crown is preserved in Austria. The crown did not get into the possession of Austrian state property in an illegal manner. Now, of course, one can still make efforts of a spiritual nature that one has to set any signs, there comes a commemorative day and the Mexicans were against the invasion of Hitler. - That's all wonderful. But I am not in favour of signing this agreement. And the explanation that Immunity guarantees for the loan items and their immediate return after the end of the agreed exhibition period are to be accompanied and completed – well, we already know such guarantees to the satisfaction: confiscation of images that then remained on the American continent and came back through years of processing or did not come back. That's all admission negligence. Therefore: Be the beginnings! Unfortunately, we from the FPÖ cannot agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20284	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20307	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if it is already a somewhat advanced evening, I may ask for attention, because for me personally this item on the agenda and what we decide today is really a very great moment. I would like to address the cooperation on loans that we today decide that we are giving the helmet and the sword of the Albanian national hero Skanderbeg to Albania. Now 99.9 percent of Austrians do not know who Skanderbeg is, 99.9 percent do not know that helmet and sword are in the Art History Museum. But for the Albanians, this item would have been the first item on the agenda today. I believe that we are thus proving the international union and friendship with this country. The importance of this also shows that the Albanian ambassador, Mr Minarolli, is present with Mr Ceka's Counsellor of Ambassadors at the Visitor's Gallery to join this decision, which I hope will fall unanimously. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] ==References== It was the largest hero of the Albanians, and still remains. He succeeded in dispossessing the Ottomans. After he died, they came back. His heirs then went to Italy and sold his helmet and sword for lack of money. These came to Graz via the Habsburgs for a long time, then they were kept in the Ambras Castle in Innsbruck, and in 1806 they came to the Kunsthistorisches Museum. Two years ago, in Albania, Request expressed – since Albania celebrated 100 years of Republic and 100 years of independence this year and Austria was significantly involved in this independence in 1912 – whether it would not be possible to borrow these Republican Insignia to Albania. At the beginning – you know what that is – they said: Impossible! We're afraid of security. - But many have helped. I would really like to thank some of you here. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany, for whom I was personally speaking and spoke. I would like to thank our Federal Minister, Dr. Michael Spindeleggerganz, who has contributed positively and as a friend of Albania, but also cultural minister Dr. Claudia Schmied, who has been convinced that this would be a good gesture. I thank the President of the National Council Mag. Barbara Prammer, who was in Albania a few weeks ago and was able to convince himself of the development of the country, of the hospitality. I thank our President, Fritz Neugebauer, the Second President of the National Council, who also fought, and not least Werner Amon, who, when we visited the Museum in Krujë in Albania last year, saw that only facsimiles of helmet and sword were exhibited there. So today is a little gesture from us, but you can be convinced that this is a great act of state for Albania. The Albanians are happy, we can enjoy. And I believe that gestures like these deepen friendship and cooperation. Austria - I may say - has the highest priority and enjoys the highest honorary award in Albania, is the most popular country. And I think today's gesture will give us many more friends in Albania. In any case, I thank you for your unanimous support.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20383	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20404	Madam President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister! It's clear it's about the spring crown. I think if there are opinions from the Technical University in Vienna that it is not transportable, then we simply cannot agree. The fact that this is a pure return is probably wrong, because the Archduke of Tyrol bought this spring crown in 1590. In 1928 she came to the National History Museum. If you hear today that a ship transport costs hundreds of thousands of euros, Minister of State, then you must first explain to us who pays for it. And if even the director of the museum Engelsman says he's not for it, then no one can agree. Very briefly, I would like to inform Mr ÖVP-Obmann about how the committee has done. We had an expert hearing there to the dialogue center, the King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. There's Mr. Mag. Patzelt literally said that the Wahhabites are those who in Saudi Arabia daily execute the death penalty that hack off the hands of people that forbid women to receive education that prohibit women from driving cars. These Wahhabites have Mr. Mag. Patzelt here in the High House compared with the Pius Brotherhood X. I was very quiet in the beginning, waited, I thought the ÖVP will react. – But no, there was nothing, even from the FPÖ there was nothing! I think we owe it to all Christians that we do not allow such a thing. That's a cleaner, I'd expect an excuse for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20434	Mr President, I have not heard the word ‘saury’ right now. Now comes Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20459	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring immediately to the change in the previous cultural agreement with Mexico, and I would just like to address briefly the decisions on Syria that were decided yesterday at the meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers. I expressly welcome the further sanctions adopted yesterday against the Assad regime. However, I would have liked to hear from all the sharp and clear words about the accusations that the Syrian government is using a whirlwind against its own people. Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called Federkrone Montezumas is an extremely valuable cultural property for Austria and especially, of course, for the indigenous population of Mexico. It should not be the subject of disputes between both countries, but rather the reason for cooperation. The concern of Mexico to be able to issue the spring crown in its own country has been discussed here in Parliament for many years. I therefore very much welcome the fact that both governments have now agreed on an international framework agreement that regulates the mutual temporary lending of cultural goods. With this agreement, we now have a firm legal framework, which, if the spring crown is actually granted, ensures clarity. Both countries have thus provided the prerequisite for the long-term controversy over the spring crowns. to be able to end everyone's satisfaction. Its place should now be more intensive cultural cooperation, which is fruitful and profitable for both sides. Whether the spring crown can eventually be borrowed from Mexico will be decided by science. We have already heard today, a study by TU has shown that the spring crown cannot be transported by air, but it is now being examined whether the sea or land road is possible. We can't change physical laws, but we can't change political laws. In any event, the lack of legal frameworks should not be allowed to fail in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20501	Mr Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20522	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of spring crown we have been talking more often, since I do not repeat now. Our request from 2007, 2008 and so on is known, has been negotiated in the Committee, and our opinion is also known. What I am more interested in now is rather this loan agreement, with which we now conclude a guarantee of immunity more or less on this agreement. What does that mean? – We actually have bilateral legal certainty. If something is held back, then you can ask it back anyway. The immunity guarantee means that it must still be returned, although it would legally belong to the country. That actually means, and you should be a little careful. In connection with Mexico, this is a diplomatic parquet that we go to to construct something so that the spring crown can get there in the sense of a permanent loan. I'm right about that. I don't care how she gets there, we're sure she's coming to Mexico as a permanent loan. But in the context of the picture “Wally” in 1998, for example, this would have meant that Austria would still have gotten this picture back, although it had clearly belonged there from the Provenance and the Leopold Collection would have had 19 million dollars in Comparative payments had to be paid and Austria spent 5 million in connection with the legal disputes. That is, with a guarantee of immunity, the restitution would not have gotten its right. So you should be a little careful, because there are still many cases of this kind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20559	Mr Spindelegger has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20580	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on these two cultural agreements. The agreement with Mexico does not focus on the Penacho. We have now jointly commissioned a technical opinion – Austria and Mexico – and the very clear result: Transport capacity is not available. That is why the Penacho will not be able to be transported either on the one hand or on the other, because no one has anything of it if this cultural property is In fact, the transport is broken down. It has nothing of Mexico and neither of us, and therefore it is actually about other cultural goods. There is already a fundamental legal problem when national legislation, as it currently exists in Mexico, says that if about two museums conclude an international contract, but in Mexico there is the legal situation that a good may no longer be implemented, then de facto one is subject to the legal application of another State without being able to resist it. That is why, together – Mexico has agreed – we have concluded such an agreement so that not only such an international dispute will arise in the future, but it is clear that if cultural goods are brought to the exhibition to the other country and shown there for a few months, they return again. This was necessary and is a fundamental requirement for us to increasingly exhibit cultural goods with Mexico in the future, but, as I said, the Penacho is not affected. The 100-year celebration in Albania in November of this year is the reason for us to clarify with a cultural goods agreement that we bring sword and helmet of the Skanderbeg to Albania for loan purposes and then return to Austria. That is, I think, of great symbolic value. Mr Grossruck has mentioned this, and we also hear it from the official Albanian authorities. We also have a good legal basis, so that it is clear there too: for loan purposes is borrowed and then returned. I believe that these are two parade agreements, which will also enable us to achieve a good course of action in this direction with other countries in the future. I very much welcome the fact that this is at least the majority in the House, and may I say in particular to the Liberal Group: The question of Federkrone has already been dealt with. Something that is not transportable can not be transported at the best. So don't worry, the Penacho remains in the Museum of Art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20628	Mrs Mag. Worm is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20650	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also delighted that this agreement between Austria and Albania will now allow this cultural loan, which is of great importance – the guests sit on the visitor stand – and that sword and helmet can be exhibited in Albania. I had the opportunity – you are the Presidency of the Council of Europe now – to visit your country, and I must say that it was noticeable that this was your concern. [[direction Visitor Gallery]] I am glad that this decision will be taken today. I really thank you once again for having succeeded in meeting this wish in cooperation with the President, the Second President Fritz Neugebauer and the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. This is a real and important matter that we are dealing with here. What has not yet been mentioned in the debate on the various agreements is the end of the consular agreement between Austria and Romania. This is not an unkind act from Austria, But it is agreedly terminated or terminated, which in fact has been obsolete for a long time and is more or less regulated by the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Consular relations are very important for all of us who travel to other parts of the world. This Vienna Convention on Consular Relations regulates what a consul does, what his activity is. We have eleven general consulates in the world, for example three in the United States, in Los Angeles, New York and Chicago, and also in other parts of the world. 280 Honorary consulates serve citizens, provide visas, assist in emergency situations. For example, I only remember the tsunami in Thailand. At that time, the consules were very important, which helped locally. The time is running, the colleagues already remind – summarizing: The conclusion of the Consular Agreement has become necessary in the sense of legal clearance.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20701	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the rapporteur is not wanted. We therefore come to the votes which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United Mexican States on cultural exchange in 1831 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 BVG to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Albania on cooperation concerning the lending of objects of their moving State cultural heritage for exhibitions on the territory of the other State, in 1911 the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 BVG to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 31: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on cooperation in the fields of culture, education and science, in 1912 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 BVG to grant approval. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol ending the Consular Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Socialist Republic of Romania, in 1913 of the Supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. Whoever gives him the consent, I'm looking for a sign. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. [[21:23:53]] 33. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 2072/A(E) by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on compliance with the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities (1946, p.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20780	We're now going to 33. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20811	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The preservation of human rights is a cornerstone of SPÖ's policy. This includes a self-determined life for people with disabilities. As far as possible, the limits are set correctly in the case of mental or mental disabilities. It is important to keep this sensitive area in the perspective of this sensitive issue and to take care of how Austrian property law is applied in practice. It is important to deal comprehensively and in detail with those concerned and the legal situation, to make international comparisons, to make proposals for improvement very serious. Further speakers from our group will address this and highlight important aspects. The motion for a resolution - and I thank you for that - is supported by all the groups of the House. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned by colleague Marek and colleague Bayr today, and it is very important for human rights in our country that the new Austrian Human Rights Advisory Council has been working for three months. He's been since 1. Its responsibilities have been supplemented by essential additional tasks. A very positive development, a positive development. The first report will take place in 2013. I think we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20854	Next speaker: Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20875	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can take a short look at this, because it is a joint request from Mr Grossruck, Mr Kirchgatterer, Mr Steinhauser, Mr Huber. Order for the sake of: The amendment, which has been unanimously adopted in the Committee, deals with the law of the state. The Federal Republic of Germany and the The Minister is asked to review the situation in practice, because it has been shown that under current law, when an expert is appointed, he who is in charge loses all rights. There are no differentiations, there are legal differences, but usually not. A new examination and a new draft should be carried out to ensure that this property law is adapted accordingly. That is what the Federal Minister has promised and promised. I believe that the unanimity with regard to this proposal proves that we all agree with this procedure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20915	I now give the floor to Mr Deputies Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20946	What about the Uhudler debate, Mrs Colleague? [[Abg. May. Brunner: (pointing to the ÖVP) They are discussing there!]] – Then let me discuss it too! Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is indeed true that many people in Austria are directly affected by the problem of the state of affairs. We have already discussed the big issue of rental work today. A similar number of persons are affected in Austria and 60,000 are in charge. I remember being at an event that was organized by people with learning disabilities themselves some time ago. She had very, very many visitors and was very interesting, because the everyday problems of these people have been really discussed openly; starting with the problems that one has in the work, in the workshop, up to the very personal areas, in other words partnerships and so on. But it was striking for us – there were some political representatives there – that no one was present at this event and apparently there was no interest in really wanting to participate in these everyday problems. That is, it seems that sometimes the wrong person is entrusted with a custody. There is too little right of participation for family members. I believe that the proposal, as far as I know, has come from the ÖVP, that the payment of the assets of the person in charge is no longer a good one, and that the proposal to separate the area actually cared for by legal persons, namely those matters that really enter the legal area, and the area that can be cared for by other persons, namely care, care and so on, is a good one, and that would therefore also be implemented. We will vote in favour of this request and are already eager to discuss what will then be discussed in more detail on the subject of “Uhudler”.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e20986	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21007	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are very pleased that the need for action in the new regulation of the board of experts has been recognised and our request has been adopted unanimously with a few amendments. It is the fact that, particularly after the 2008 ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, our current rules on property management are no longer sustainable. A few numbers have already been mentioned. The fact is that, unlike Germany, we have a legal situation in Austria, according to which the decision of the Board of Directors completely loses business capacity. Therefore, the body is a major challenge under human law and fundamental law. We're dealing with high numbers. Here the need for action is obvious and very clear. That is why we have proposed that, in this case, we look at Germany, particularly with regard to the loss of business capacity there, in order not to introduce the full loss of business capacity by the decision of the Board of Directors, but to assure people with disabilities the same enjoyment of personal rights as non-disabled people as provided for in the said Convention. We are pleased that the request has found the majority, and we are also looking forward to the innovation that we hope will be sent to Parliament shortly after a review of the business capacity issue. Then, together, we can decide on the reform of the administration here in the house. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21046	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21068	Madam President. Federal Minister! Of course, we will also agree with this request, because we are also on top of the request. But one thing is clear: You have to see which persons are entrusted with the administration. Moreover, I believe that this request has been sent to the wrong committee, because this request has nothing to do with human rights, it would have been part of the judicial committee. But that's just a formal thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21095	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21116	Madam President. Minister! High house! This motion for a resolution is certainly a very important one to examine in order to evaluate, but above all to compare it with the solutions already in place in Germany. As I know from my own experience – I had a disabled grandmother – there is nothing worse for people with disabilities than if, as they said earlier, they are eroded. From my point of view, the board of experts is definitely innovative, considering that some 60 000 people in Austria do not make their own decisions and are therefore third-party. This partly contradicts the UN Convention on Human Rights, because all people have the right to decide for themselves, have a right to a self-determined design of their own life. Self-determination has the same meaning for every person. Since the lives of the disabled are often – and I mentioned this just before – strange, they have no way to train their decision-making capacity. I am addressing young people, just as Mr Hofer has already done, with a learning disability. I don't think they need a lawyer. People with disabilities should first and foremost have more support. This would reduce the use of a board of directors. Sachwalters should help to make decisions. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Whether a revision of our current law and a follow-up to the German model is an advantage to the person concerned is intended to result in a review. That is why I would like to ask you - and this request has already been decided unanimously in committee - to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21153	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21174	Ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing a motion for a resolution which is intended to carry out a review of property law. I believe that we are discussing a matter that has very profound effects on individual people in our country. If people, whether because of mental disability or mental illness, are unable to make decisions on their own without suffering disadvantages for themselves, then a guard will be involved. The figures have already been mentioned, and I believe that they are actually remarkably high when it says that there are 60 000 people in Austria. This would make up a pretty big city if you used Austria in comparison. If the authorities are so to speak ordered, then it is a deeper, a serious intervention into the personality of a human being. In the life of a human being, it is very different whether this concerns the amount of pocket money, the handling of legal transactions or the ways of the administration. The most important thing in this context is from my point of view that personal care is adequately secured. Medical and social care must be ensured. After Austria has committed itself to the UN to enable disabled people to live as self-determinedly as possible, we are now trying to no longer order old fragile, demented or disabled people the legally defined well-being, but to provide them with tools with which to decide for themselves. The present motion for a resolution on the review of property law is to be welcomed. Any criticism is to be addressed, abuses are to be prevented and people with intellectual impairment should be allowed to operate independently as far as possible. If the review of this law indicates that a novel is necessary, then we will discuss these novels accordingly and then decide on them.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21214	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21238	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! From the point of view of an official of the Board of Directors, a lot could still be reported from the practice here. However, enough has already been done on this subject today. I represent a large trade union, that is, the one for Lower Austria. One might think that the board may be opposed to an evaluation, against a review, but I can very clearly document and say here: It's not like that! We are also in favour of reviewing our activity, being evaluated. And we are then in implementation, if there is to be a reform of the SA law, very gladly to bring in our experience from practice. We will always focus on clients. This must also be the interest of the House, the legislator. In this sense, I also expect this review to provide valuable suggestions for the future. I would like to say one more thing: If we actually make changes to property law, then these should also be kept, not as in the past, so that we have to take back improvements in the absence of sufficient budgeting. I would like to point out that: We also need to take appropriate budgetary precautions.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21275	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on compliance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities annexed to the 1946 Committee Report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 271.) [[21:40:39]] 34. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1811, e.g._Other Organiser German law on the acquisition of shares of PEG MedAustron Gesellschaft mbH (MedAustron GmbH-Law – MAGG) (1938 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21321	We're on our way to 34. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21352	Madam President! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) With MedAustron, one of the most modern centers for ion therapy and research is created in Wiener Neustadt worldwide. The purpose of this draft is to implement the acquisition of the shares of the city of Wiener Neustadt by the federal government. Currently this centre is in the construction phase, but the test operation will start as early as 2014 and the therapy operation will start in 2015. From then on, up to 1,400 people will be able to benefit from top international medicine every year. Thanks to MedAustron, many cancer patients will soon have a new chance of more effective treatment through gentle ion therapy. So far, there are three such centres around the world that offer irradiation with protons and carbon ions, and MedAustron will be the fourth centre and thus play a key role in cancer treatment and research in Europe and worldwide. With this future project, Austria is moving to the first league of research and health sites in the field of cancer research. Austria has also established itself in top medical research and in research-led teaching in higher education within Europe. We have a long-term successful balance sheet in research technology and innovation cooperation: MedAustron, ISTA, the Academy of Sciences, Ludwig Boltzmann Institutes, our universities in general, many other non-university examples of research institutions show that we can be globally competitive if we have a clear focus on top-level research and fair framework conditions in the acquisition of cooperations and cooperative third-party resources. What does that mean? Wide-ranging research and top-level research depend on each other, investment in science and research are paying off. This is also evident in the current EU framework programme and in the negotiations of the EU budget 2014 to 2020. Let us see how much this interaction can become effective from Austrian research resources and EU funds! At present, 3 per cent of the approved funding of the Seventh Framework Programme is allocated to Austria. This is more than €500 million approved by the requested amount of funding. Austria's partner organisations are active in almost every ninth project, and a researcher or researcher from Austria is involved in every fourth research project in Europe. [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] This also brings us across the parties that we can be proud of the return rate here. 130 percent of the funding amount is recruited by Austria. This means that we are not only net recipients, but also investment in the EU budget in research is expected for Austria, but also for the future of our country. We want to raise the research rate to 6 percent in the long term, by 2025 – a very challenging project. Step by Step, step by step we start with it, but with MedAustron, our FTI strategy was supported by another area. The future of Europe begins in Austria, but together we can also benefit our patients not only in Austria, but also through a European research project.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21409	Mrs Kuntzl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21430	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As explained by my previous speaker – in detail; thank you, Mr Jarolim – the purpose of the present proposal is to empower the Federal Minister for Science and Research to take over the business shares of the city of Wiener Neustadt at the project development company MedAustron GmbH. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Detailedly executed!]] As we have already discussed the budget today, I would like to remind you at this point that Austria is investing as much as no other country in the OECD or in the EU in public funds in research and development. Austria invests 1.13 percent of GDP by public authorities in research and development. For comparison: Sweden 0.99% and Finland 1%. That is where we are at the forefront of public funds. With this budget we have taken a further step towards increasing the R&D quota.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21467	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21488	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Top research in Austria – we all stand for that, of course! We want top research in Austria, we want to build it. There are many small projects in the medical field that would deserve the title “speech research”. They often work very hard – “in the underground”, you can’t say – and not necessarily in the public. The MedAustron project, which we are talking about here, is a large-scale project, it is a large-scale research plant that puts Austrian research in the international focus. We work together with the CERN core research centre. Young people are really doing great things there, and this technology, which has been outsourced, comes back to Austria and is being further developed here. MedAustron is mainly about a great medical project, not only about a research project, but also about a project that benefits patients who have to suffer because they have cancer. I believe that not often enough can be said that in medicine, especially the actual heroes are those who can treat a life-threatening disease, such as cancer is one. Of course, there are the surgeons and internalists in the first place, but of course also often unknown and recognizes the radiotherapists. This project, where it is concerned, simply said to bring something highly complex, almost a one-time thing in the world in the field of radiation therapy to Austria, must be worth a lot to us – I say now as an opposition – and that is it for us. That is why we agree with this project and also the takeover – this is actually what it is about here! – the business shares of the city of Wiener Neustadt by the federal government. But one thing I also have to say: I also understand the people who practice criticism here, because in October 2004 – I have a list here – the feasibility study was started with € 116 million, in November 2006 we were already € 155 million, in February 2007 we were then € 172 million and in January 2010 we were € 186 million – and in the worst-case scenario is spoken of € 223 million. So this is almost a doubling in not even six years. This is a strong piece, and of course one understands those who mainly see the meaning of the matter in the financial sector and say that this is something that should not actually go that way. And another criticism: I would of course have liked to see it as a Vienna MP that this is located in Vienna. We have, of course, the Medical University in Vienna, to which I would like to say something, but now only on this project. Of course, we also have a potential for top researchers. It was also the criticism in the committee why this is now in Wiener Neustadt. – Well, because the head of state there clearly recognized this and brought it to Wiener Neustadt. There, Vienna has lost, and it is not allowed to slander, but it must take its own ears and say: Next time, we are not allowed to do this as Vienna! - That's just on the verge. I'd like to say something to the Medical University. At the Medical University, something is currently running that is not pleasing – we have often discussed this, and I would like to say it here in plenary. It was this story with this gender evaluation during the recording test. I think that's where you hoped you'll figure it out, the semester will start, and next year it's supposed to be different. The fact is that today many young people, young men, above all, feel subjective and also objectively discriminated against. Only for those who do not know what was: They said there was a test. This test, like every year, is evaluated in such a way that just about 20 percent who make the test get a place. That wasn't a problem. But of course there has been the problem that more men have passed this test positively – why not. But one has not changed the test, but one has now created a structure where one has said women are preferred this time. Mr. Minister, there have been many attempts. There's another attempt where you say: Those who have been excited receive an additional place. But that cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom either. I now ask you again – you do it anyway, but I ask you to do so again and I would like to inform the public – that those who would deserve it, who would have done this test according to objective criteria, actually get a place.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21544	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21565	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! We agree to the acquisition of business shares by Wiener Neustadt by the science department and are of course interested in the fact that high standards in research policy are being operated and good institutions are also coming to Austria as an opposition. But the question is allowed: Are the interests of science and research in the involvement of the federal government of 35 percent in total costs – thank God with 118 million – also insured and justified? I now begin with the medical field and quote literally from a question answered by Federal Minister Stöger. First: “Studies or estimates of the number of patients/inn/en are not available to my place.” Secondly, “What tumor diseases can be successfully treated with protons or ions in the future cannot be said with certainty at present.” Thirdly, “How many cancers, for which such therapy is in question, are diagnosed annually in Austria, cannot be specified exactly.” From Lower Austria, MedAustron did not explain the supply situation in the Landstructural Fund in detail, says Stöger, and the assumption that most of the patients can be provided outpatiently is rightly questioned by the main association – I am oncologist. These are severely ill patients who do not go to a guest house afterwards and take a room – some maybe, but not most. That means there's already been a little sloppy calculated. And when I read that the research at 10 am – that's night! – until 6 am, I wonder if the ideal conditions are when people who work at the University of Vienna, at TU can travel to Wiener Neustadt with the last night train and leave the place of measurement at 6 o’clock in the morning. I believe that Sectionschefin Weitgruber and Dean Badurek from TU are certainly serious partners here who will pay attention to it, but they are not responsible for the framework conditions laid down by contract. One leans to an Italian center where there is an acceleration unit with 250 electronvolts, and one wants to establish it there together with Italy. For basic research, however, one needs upgrade to at least 800 megaelectronvolts, and one does not buy them at Ikea. We should know this. This means that a prototype will be established here, which will have difficulties in the beginning. And then how does research continue? If you have to wait, you probably don't wait in irradiation times, because the patients are registered and arrived. You'll be waiting at night. And I know physicists who measure in a similar unit in Germany – at the Schering Institute – that have 50 years of experience. And there are many physicists going back empty-handed, because the radiation intensity in an accelerator cannot be kept constant for more than hours. What happens then? I think you really need to be careful. Minister, the professorship will be a kind of outside office in Wiener Neustadt. It's good when she gets there. This is nothing bad, but one will have to see if the hopes are fulfilled if one has such questionable conditions in research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21626	Next speaker: Member of the list. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21648	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister Däderle! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Despite some concerns, the BZÖ will also agree to the acquisition of the business shares of Wiener Neustadt at the MedAustron Cancer Research and Cancer Centre. We are convinced that the 200 million expensive center is important for medical progress. At the same time, we must join again with the sharp criticism of the Court of Auditors, which undermines the lack of cost calculations. The location Wiener Neustadt “blattelt” the ÖVP system in Austria “on”. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Black Head of State Pröll receives the cancer center from the Black Minister of Science, then Liesl Gehrer, with the approval of the black chancellor Schüssel in 2004. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Despite concerns of the Supreme Council of Sanity – there is a lack of a university centre with large infrastructure – the location decision has fallen politically, ladies and gentlemen. The black network shows all power to Pröll in Lower Austria. Founded arguments do not count here – and that is worrying. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In conclusion: We expect this Pröll’s Prestige project to benefit from international top medicine.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21711	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Däderle, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21732	Madam President. High house! It has already been said a lot and the approval of all the political groups has also been announced. I thank you very much for that. In fact, it is only about this empowerment law, i.e. the approval that we take over the shares of Wiener Neustadt, and not about a principle debate, although fundamental criticism has been voiced. I can only make three very brief comments on this. First: It has been correctly noted by Dr. Karlsböck that we have a close connection with CERN and research in the CERN, where we also invest enormous resources. Secondly, it has also been stressed several times that this is a place where a very new, particularly successful cancer therapy can be used. The other places where that can be are Milan and Heidelberg, relatively far to the west. So there is a legitimate hope that there will be a corresponding catchment area here. And the third thing: To the last criticism of Lower Austria's commitment in the field of research, I can only say that, first of all, the federal expenditure may be 41 million, i.e. cost increases, but do not touch us in the federal government, and second, if all the federal states did as much for science and research as Lower Austria, I would be grateful. This is a huge effort that this federal state is making here in the sense of strengthening the research location Austria. I thank you for the willingness of all the political groups to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21773	The next item is Mrs Himmelbauer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21794	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course MedAustron for Lower Austria, but of course also for Austria, is an international strengthening of the position as a scientific and research location. We also promote the scientific training of our students. We set important impetus for the economy and create jobs. In addition to the extremely important treatment of cancer patients with ion beams, MedAustron ensures further research in the clinical field. The results and findings obtained here are directly reflected in the improvement of treatment and thus guarantee modern, best possible and individual treatment, not only for patients from Austria, but also for those from neighbouring regions. But not only in the clinical field is research carried out here, but also in the nonclinical field, with medical objectives. In the field of experimental physics, the research infrastructure, such as the particle accelerator system, is used. The research spirit meets fertile soil in Austria: nationally, together with local universities and researchers, as well as internationally through cooperation within EU projects with our neighbouring countries and with European universities. Austria is clearly positioning itself here as a science and research country. Austria has a large capital of knowledge to use, promote and secure. By investing in research institutions such as MedAustron, we are further expanding this potential.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21839	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21861	Madam President. Federal Minister! Many cancer patients in Austria hope for results through innovative research that lead to new treatments and to relief of their pain. Therefore, sometimes I do not understand that there are discussions about locations: Discussions whether Wiener Neustadt, whether Niederösterreich is the ideal location, do not help people. With today's decision, we ensure the further development and later operation of the Research Centre. It is therefore an important and necessary decision. I know that in the run-up to and, of course, today in this debate, there are not only advocates for this institution – for example, the Court of Auditors has also criticised this project, but it is ultimately about helping people. About 16 000 people in Austria are cancer-sick; they expect help – and many can be helped with this facility and the treatments. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Research, technology and innovation strengthen Austria's economic location. This project strengthens the region around Wiener Neustadt, the region Niederösterreich, and is therefore also a strong booster for the research location Niederösterreich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21894	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word will be desired. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1811 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – Adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading, for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:04:46]] 35. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (1892 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on scientific and technical cooperation (1939 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21948	We're now going to the 35th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. It is the first honourable Member to speak. Fuhrmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e21976	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In view of the advanced time, I do it very briefly. This draft government agreement is a scientific and technical agreement with Albania with a view to ensuring cross-border networking and strengthening international cooperation. Mr President, you have been very committed to negotiating and finally signing this agreement. The main purpose of this agreement is to promote bilateral contacts between Austria and Albania. In the best case, both countries benefit. We are concerned with developing scientific and technical knowledge and ensuring that the scientific location of Austria benefits from it. In the best case, this should also lead to more jobs, and this will strengthen economic growth. The Ministry of Science also takes money into its hands. € 90 000 per year are available. This will support the exchange of scientific and technical information. The staff, the mutual posting of scientists, can also be supported, special studies can be carried out – and in the end this will also be used to support the mobility of scientists. That is why I mention this because it is very often an obstacle to the realization of such projects. Such agreements already exist with other countries, including Poland, Slovenia, Russia, France, China, Great Britain, Korea, the Czech Republic and Spain. It was all the more important to launch such a bilateral agreement with Albania. Mr. Federal Minister, thank you very much for your initiative!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22022	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22045	Madam President. Minister! It is a pleasure that this agreement was unanimously adopted by the Committee. That is why I can now take a short look. In concrete terms, this agreement deals with the financing of mobility costs in the framework of joint research projects on the same parts of Austria and Albania. This also concerns the intensification and deepening of scientific and technical cooperation and the exchange of scientific and technical information. But, of course, this also serves European stability and the integration process. There are indeed 20 such agreements, and there one sees that science is making valuable contributions and foundations for political decisions through cooperation and the transfer of know-how. Of course, I am particularly pleased that a specific evaluation will ensure a gender-friendly composition of the project team. I would like to thank you many times and ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22083	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22104	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! We already have our approval in the Committee; we think that €90 000 for scientific cooperation between Austria and Albania is right. But one thing has to be asked here, Mr Minister – we have already discussed this in committee –: What is the economic benefit for Austria? I think this agreement is a nice gesture on our part. However, it will bring us little, but costs a bit of money, and in this way we support a country. But it's clear: There are 20 different agreements in this respect. Therefore, it would be desirable if there was a list where the question was also answered: What is the economic benefit for Austria for so many agreements? One issue that has also been raised is the need to finally make a scholarship reform. Mrs Kuntzl has already announced this. Our support will definitely have you to do this. We are pleased to have a discussion about this in autumn. We also need to discuss the introduction of study fees in order to ensure that universities are top equipped so that more places are available there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Oberhauser.]] We look forward to this, this will be an exciting autumn. Mr Minister, perhaps you can tell us today what this investment will bring to €90 000 in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22150	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22172	Madam President. Minister! I'd like to stretch the bow a little further. I speak quite clearly – perhaps in the The European Commission's proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to The strategy for internationalisation in the field of science and research strengthens the international competitiveness of Austria and strengthens our position in the global knowledge society. So far, we have had scientific and technological cooperation in the 19 countries in total, and we expressly welcome these bilateral cooperations with all countries, especially, of course, those countries that have a high development dynamics. Operationally, this scientific and technical cooperation is guided by a component “mobilisation promotion” by the WTZ programme representative in your ministry. These bilateral activities are also important because we also want to actively contribute to the EU's research and technology policy. For us, the ERA, i.e. the European Research Area, will have the highest priority by 2020. The aim of this European Research Area is the free exchange of researchers and scientists as well as the free transfer of science and technology within the European Union. From the latest 2004 evaluation report on scientific and technical cooperation, I take advantage of all researchers to benefit from the joint exchange of know-how, and international activities have led to increased and intensive publication activity. All scientists confirm, according to the evaluation report, high efficiency and effectiveness. After we have intensified these bilateral activities in recent years, I think it would be time, in 2012 again, to launch a new evaluation. And that's why I'd ask you, Minister. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22220	Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Däderle is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22241	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mayer, we have just begun this evaluation. You are right that the last report from 2004 is, but the next evaluation has just begun. So I can't report any results yet. I can only say that the volume we spend in 2012 for these agreements amounts to a total of € 815 000. This will help to promote mobility costs, i.e. travel expenses of between € 2 000 and € 5 000. A total of around 1,400 scientists who come to us or go to the respective countries are supported. The fact that we are now concluding such an agreement with Albania is, I believe, very common. Austria, for historical reasons, but also for geographical reasons, is increasingly seeking partnership, especially in the South-East European region. I know from many contacts with this room and many visits there or also from science ministers to me that you are very grateful and very interested there. We are considered a model country, and we are very interested in cooperating with our scientific institutions. There are already some cooperations with Albanian universities that can be deepened and strengthened in this way. I would like to thank you for your support for this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22281	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish for any final word. We are now voting on the request of the Scientific Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1892 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their agreement to do so with a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:14:54]] 36. Point First reading: Request by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) (1992/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22327	We're coming to the 36th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First, the applicant receives the floor. – Please, Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22354	Madam President. It is a matter of amending the Rules of Procedure which we are discussing briefly at first reading, but which is not the first time that we are discussing, because the occasions for changing the classification have been justified several times, in particular by the Third President of the National Council, Martin Graf. We are concerned with creating symmetry on the issue of the availability of organs installed in high functions of the Republic of Austria. We know that a Federal Chancellor can be expressed distrust at any time by a simple majority of this House, as can any member of the government. We know that in many days of the country, this is the case with national leaders and also with national government members. However, the Rules of Procedure did not provide for a symmetrical provision if we wanted to elect a member of the National Council Presidency to be a National Council President. That is why this proposal. I would like to mention the similarity to the President of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors can currently be called up by a simple majority at any time by the National Council. We do not have this possibility at the National Council Bureau. I would like us to go into this discussion a little more relaxed, perhaps we can find a solution here at the end of the legislative period. On the ÖVP side, there are always new proposals, but I believe that the common intention to install here a symmetry that guarantees a certain fair treatment of the upper organs would be our common concern. [[Abg. Head: President of the Court of Auditors is also President of the National Council?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: This is Parliament's auxiliary body!]] You keep saying that from your point of view, the President of the Court of Auditors needs less protection than a President of the National Council. However, I think that a President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors who has the task of exercising control, including some of the toes, enjoys greater protection. I would also propose to the President of the Court of Auditors that he be equipped with a two-thirds majority protection rather than a simple majority. This was also the discussion at the Austrian Convention, which at the time also joined the ÖVP with regard to the President of the Court of Auditors. In this sense, I hope that we will come here to a green branch, and I am looking forward to the ÖVP's speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22404	Mr Pendl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22426	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Surely an interesting discussion when I think of the Committee. My group has already made a proposal on this subject for a long time. This is a little similar to the situation with the Committee of Inquiry. However, I would like to invite you to pay attention now when we talk about such issues as being a self-confident Parliament and solving our homework in Parliament and not expecting help from another level without interruption. So I'm curious about what the future will bring. I also believe that in the next few months, as you have said, Mrs Colleague, in the expiry of the period, there may be an opportunity to reach a conclusion here. But I appeal to all Members, to their self-confidence: Let us solve Parliament's duties, and let us not have continuous arbitrators from outside!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22463	Second President Fritz Neugebauer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22488	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with my colleague and friend Otto Pendloft, but I have to say: If you drag things off this way, the image of politicians in Austria will not be clearly improved. I believe that we do well to set particularly high standards in all our areas, in matters of management, personal life-management. That's what the people expect from us. I think the time window is open. We discuss this on different levels, in different waves, whenever it cooks up. I'd think that's about the question: As regards who should be concerned, there should be a comprehensive package of strict rules: Loss of office both at federal level and at country level for all MEPs: National Council, Federal Council, Land Days, European Parliament and the highest institutions, from the Federal President to the members of the state government. I think that would be comprehensive, namely for the entire political responsibilities. I believe that because you mentioned the Third President of the National Council, Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischnig, you also have to maintain that we must keep such a discussion clean from the day-to-day debate and political arbitrariness. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] There is a very good means for the election of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. This has not yet been applied, but it is at least about the body before which he has held his office. This makes the request to the Constitutional Court, which is also about our decisions. And I believe that the rule of law requires that the loss of office can only occur in accordance with a proper procedure as Ultima Ratio. Only the highest judicial jurisdiction excludes party-politically motivated abuse. And we want to bring in – and I ask you to deal with it – that an objective legal procedure by the Constitutional Court should take place on Parliament's initiative. I think that we can also have a role as a model and, if we take the discussion seriously in the Committee and come to a joint decision-making process, we can make a significant contribution to the reputation of policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22542	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22563	Madam President. High house! For party-political reasons, there is always a bad advice to change important things, especially the rules of this House, in any way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What would have been the case, Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig, if a liberal in a management function had not at one time allowed a request because he did not like it? A right of Members simply so circumcised? – They would have been the first to put on any biological-dynamic body on which it is a shame. Nothing else has been done by Mrs Moser in the committee of inquiry! [[Complementary with FPÖ, SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mrs Moser has restricted Members' rights. It may be a point of law, and one can make mistakes, but from the principle Mrs Glavischnig, I am speaking! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The ignorance of a five-party application does not disturb her?! Let us not forget that the Members are ignoring a five-party request!]] Do not feel caught with your Green Group now! We know what you're really talking about. Your chairman in the Committee of Inquiry has restricted Members' rights! That's a fact! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] You can make a mistake and you can say afterwards: I'm on the wrong side and I want to make him right! You can do it all, but that's not happening. – But if that had happened to someone else, you would have been the first to walk around with your bodies whose shame would have been any. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: VersichterPartie! The FPÖ is on the side of the coverts! Cut off control!]] [[Abg. Head: Self-righteous Greens!]] Now this law is staying here. Tell me it's just a "Lex Graf"! You don't want anything else. These top bodies are, of course, also concerned with other institutions in this House, such as the committee chairmen. Choice/selection option, you can do that. But then you even bring in another one: The President of the Court of Auditors should be more protected than members of the National Council Bureau! The aid body of the Parliament is more important? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Just protected!]] It is precisely the Bureau which has a function in the Constitution, for example, in the Federal President's representation, that is something to be suspended from day-to-day policy.- Oh, my God! Unearthed You're not yourself! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Be constructive in a process when it comes to strengthening the Rules of Procedure of this House to this House. – That’s the decisive! And you forgot one thing: People's attorneys should also be included.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22667	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22688	Ladies and gentlemen! It has been addressed to the Constitutional Convention. I still remember very well and very much about this time, because at that time a lot of constructive things discussed by all parties and also “decided” – under quotation marks – has been. Finally, it has failed for party political reasons, because the government had been miscomposed at the time. But much of what we complain today as a manko has been regulated in truth. Of course, one can discuss the possibility of re-election of the Republic's top bodies, which are elected with a certain quota, under certain conditions and circumstances. But of course you need to talk about everyone. And that's a little bit of beauty error in this request that he hangs on a specific case. And I'll give it to my previous speaker, right? It can't be that way, because in a rule of law – and there's a lot to discuss about how this is happening today – and in a democracy there must be the same level! It cannot determine the majority over and over again through a minority. If he's one of us, it's all anti-democratic if someone calls for a turnoff. But when it comes to the other, it is even a necessity in democracy to create a choice here. I remember, when the Ewald Stadler was a popular lawyer, we had exactly the same discussion: It belongs to a choice of the Volksanwälte standtuated. He's no longer a popular lawyer. Now we don't hear anything about it. Now we have the debate on the Presidents of the National Council. I say: Let us discuss the fact that, in certain circumstances – which must be the same for everyone and clearly defined – there should not be a possibility for all institutions elected for purely party-political reasons. Let us take the results of the negotiations from the Constitutional Convention, we do not need to reinvent the wheel, we discuss it, and we make a reasonable solution – but no occasion legislation!
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22731	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution (1992/A) to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:26:48]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2012-10-16-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00173_d8e22766	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 2091/A to 2099/A were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 12779/J to 12825/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.27 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
