ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority present here. Let's start the session. [[It was 14 hours and 33 minutes.]] First of all, there is a set of information I ask the Secretary of Table Maria da Luz Rosinha to announce.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, very late for everyone. I shall, of course, announce that the draft resolution No 1079 / XIV / 2 have been withdrawn by the proposer. a ( PSD ) and Bill No. 615 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), and which entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Proposal No 79 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and Bills Nos 734 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 735 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 736 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 737 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 739 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 740 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 741 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 742 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 743 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 744 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 746 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 748 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 749 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 750 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 751 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) and 752 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1106 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1108 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 1109 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 1110 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 1111 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1112 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1113 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1114 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1115 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1116 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 1117 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 1118 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1119 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1120 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1121 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1122 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1123 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 1124 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 1125 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 1126 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 1127 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1128 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 1129 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1130 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 1131 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 1132 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 1133 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1134 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1135 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 1136 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1137 / XIV / 2. a (CDS- PP ) and 1138 / XIV /2 . a (PAN). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin the first item on the agenda: presentation and discussion of the reports on the implementation of the state of emergency declaration from 31 January to 14 February and from 15 February to 1 March 2021. To open the debate, which begins with an intervention by the Government, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During the two state of emergency reports we submitted to this House, there was an improvement in the overall epidemiological situation. In the reference periods, from 31 January to 14 February and from 15 February to 1 March, there was a reduction in the number of new cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, noted from the end of January 2021. Since the beginning of the pandemic, by reference to March 1, 2021, the highest number of new cases of infection had been recorded just before the start of this first state of emergency which we are presenting today in terms of report. It was 27 January 2021, which had recorded 16,432 reported cases of infection. Between 10 and 14 February, the average effective transmission risk began to fall and even reached its lowest number, 0, 61. Between February 27 and March 3 there was a change in this incidence, which increased to 0, 74. In the meantime, the Government continued to implement concrete measures to implement the state of emergency which had been decreed. The general duty of household collection was maintained, as well as the measures applicable to activities, establishments, services, undertakings or equivalents. Limitations were maintained on movements which were not strictly essential outside the continental territory. Reposition of control of persons at the Portuguese internal borders, suspension of cross-border rail traffic, except for the carriage of goods, and suspension of all commercial or private flights originating in Brazil or destination to Brazil and originating in the United Kingdom or destination to the United Kingdom has been extended. In the health sector, there was a significant instrument for combating pandemic at this stage, which was made possible by the very exceptional regime in which we found ourselves. It was possible to strengthen human resources in health units, allowing, inter alia, that health care establishments could exceptionally increase the remuneration for the work provided. The remuneration of the additional work was changed to more than 50% of what was its normal increase; the hours of work could be extended from 35 hours a week to 42 hours; it was possible to hire more doctors and nurses; it was possible to resort to new mechanisms at shift work. These mechanisms have enabled us, in an undeniable way, to fight the pandemic better in terms of health system responses. This allowed the responses to be maintained during these periods and the National Health Service ( SNS) began to lower the number of hospitalizations and hospitalizations in intensive care. However, not everything went well and it was necessary to use the sanction system set up by this scheme which we are now reporting. Fines were applied, 6319 for failure to comply with the general duty of household collection, and 32 persons were arrested during the period under review throughout the continental territory, of which 12 were arrested for disobedience to the obligation of compulsory confinement and 15 for disobedience to the general duty of household collection. But what is worth stressing, in this report we present today, is that he again agreed on the fulfilment of the Portuguese in relation to the general duties asked of them. If, in a period which is already very long, many show and express tiredness of the need for measures to combat the pandemic, in terms of reduction of contacts and compliance with basic rules of caution and public health, many others continue to comply with them. And it is on behalf of these many others that it is worth stressing what we all have to continue to do in the period in which we still find ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u5	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President, I am finishing. It is also worth stressing that Portugal is the second largest country in the European Union today, but many other countries are in a very complex situation and we cannot forget this context. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u7	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the debate time. Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u8	Mr President, Minister, that is one way of seeing this report, the other is very simple. The report from 15 February to 1 March says that the process of vaccination by the security forces is running at a good pace. And the pace should be so good that it doesn't say what number of professionals have already been vaccinated. If you don't mind, Minister, it's 18. as I ask you this question: how many security forces professionals have already been vaccinated? It was a good time to answer. But this was also the state of emergency in which the government left our compatriots in Brazil completely out of their own reach. People who had been there at work, as an inspector of the Judicial Police, had to pay more €800 to get aboard your country, which is Portugal. Not even a process of repatriation and support to those outside us were able to make while flights between Lisbon and São Paulo were suspended and between Lisbon and Rio de Janeiro! But this report, Mrs Minister, also ignores the most important fact of all: it was during this period that the funds of APOIAR.PT and the APOIAR RESTORATION came to an end and the government had no other answer but « we no longer have any money to help». And also for 18. At the same time, I would like to ask the Government again — I will finish, Mr President — how many hotels and restaurants have closed, have failed in this period? This is a fact that the Government still does not want to give Parliament and I think it deserves to be given right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discussed two periods of the implementation of the state of emergency. If everything was unknown in the first confinement, this early 2021, when there was already a tremendous fatigue caused by the pandemic, by isolation, by the combination of work with family responsibilities, became heavy and intense. So we hoped that, after a year of pandemics, we would choose to look at issues that are intrinsically linked to it. I am speaking, for example, of the issues of mental health, especially the consequences of pandemic fatigue. We no longer expected these reports to be at the point of describing all the difficulties and challenges of the SNS, but that at least it was reflected in the way the government is dealing with mental health problems, until these are aspects analyzed at the meetings we have with the experts. With so many written pages it is strange that the difficulties that are found on the ground are not present and that need, as The Greens have already brought without account to this House, a more robust action. Or does the government not realize these difficulties? The same thing happens with mobility, with public transport. The Greens are concerned about the reality of public transport, which should be strengthened throughout this period, with the prospect of getting roots for the future. In the large urban centres this is an added difficulty, but it also puts itself in the interior regions, where lack of transport prevents the exercise of the right to mobility and access to the exercise of other rights. in these reports we find only reference to the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, which may lead to the conclusion that for the Government this is not a problem in the rest of the territory. Today we will reiterate our position again: it is not with the declaration of the state of emergency that the Portuguese protect themselves and protect the other. The lower numbers of the present are due to the behaviour of the Portuguese, but unfortunately the options ceased to be pedagogical in order to become punitive. From 249 fines at the beginning of January we passed 9789 fines in the report from 15 February to 1 March. One of the conclusions we can draw is that in 10 million Portuguese, these numbers are not yet worrying. But does the government believe that it is with fines that the Portuguese will understand these security measures that they will have to remain, some even after the vaccination of a large part of the population? They are repressive measures that have been given greater media impact, at a time when Portuguese are tired, when they feel unjust, in which many measures that are not always easily understood and when pandemic fatigue is installed are seen prolonged. The question is whether the government thinks it is pursuing young people who are doing sports on the street or a picnic in the middle of a national forest fighting the epidemic. The Greens do not share that view.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u11	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These reports show that there has been a reduction in the number of people in hospital, which is obviously positive, but they warn us of another peak, that of the rehabilitation needs of people who have had the most serious disease, who tend to be long and difficult and who will have to find responses from the government without creating inequalities of access or worsening of the health status of people due to lack or lack of response. The preliminary analysis of mortality identified in these reports indicates that 76 % is attributable to COVID-19 and 18 % to extreme cold between the end of the year and the end of last February. We continue to have—and, in view of this data, it is too obvious— structural problems in access to decent housing and energy efficiency, so we ask: when will we have a country in which people do not have to choose between eating themselves or not cold? This aspect also reminds us of the importance of the protection of the population most exposed to the risk of COVID-19, which is also the population, socially and economically more fragile, which is why the NAP presented a proposal to integrate people with homeless conditions and people with severe mental illness, who are not institutionalized, into priority vaccination groups. Regarding the vaccination plan, we have always said that it should be dynamic and we understand that it was obviously positive the integration of professionals such as teachers and non-teaching staff, but now there are missing assistants hired by the authorities, as well as the teachers of the AEC ( curriculum enrichment activities) and the monitors of family support activities. In closing schools, early intervention was less than necessary, which, for children in need, means high development losses and greater recovery difficulties and evidence the need for more professionals to integrate. One hour a day for children who need this intervention is few and there are hundreds of children who don't even have that time. As the telework is so essential in the containment of transmission, requiring the government to provide employers with the necessary work equipment, it was necessary to comply with this same orientation in relation to state workers, such as teachers, who did not have any computer equipment. These reports also refer to the difficulties in welcoming children and young people and, therefore, we have also introduced a recommendation to solve these problems, remembering that these children and young people, in addition to being more fragile, live in social responses where professionals also suffered the impacts of COVID-19, in addition to the difficulties associated with the building where these children are accommodated, and we need to get as close as possible to a family environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u13	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. If it is necessary to ensure health rules to prevent the entry of new variants into the territory and to optimize the vaccination process, it is also very important, at the same time, to find a balance point, not perpetuating, even after the European Commission's recommendations to its Member States, situations of injustice with respect to binacial couples who remain separate. To solve them, there has already been a recommendation since August last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u15	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : These reports correspond to a period when, after Portugal was the worst country in the world in combating the pandemic, under general confinement, the situation has been gradually improving. On this point, however, it is appropriate to undo a falsehood—and for that reason I am taking advantage of the late arrival of the Minister of Internal Administration—which is the idea that there were those who were not consistent, that there were those who had defended openness instead of defending prudence, as the Minister said in the past session, that it is not true. What some parties, particularly my own, said was that, not even in general confinement, the government's decision to close supermarkets at 1 p.m., for example, was an absolute nonsense, because instead of having the normal schedule — which, moreover, remained in confinement — what it did was to concentrate people every morning, making meetings, bringing people closer to each other and increasing the risk of contagion. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] That is what we said, not the other way around, and it is appropriate to be clear. But, Minister, I also know that credibility is not much. It is enough to have spoken, as we have done today, with the women and men of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders) to realize that the credibility of the government, particularly in this area, is almost null. Moreover, I would like to add to this his extraordinary statement on elections on two weekends, which, a few days later, Mr. Prime Minister came to qualify as a 'dangerous' statement. This, for a Minister of Internal Administration, is no longer extraordinary. Anyway! The other charge, Mr. Prime Minister, is that the CDS was normally against the position of the government, whatever it was, which is also very unfair. Against the government's position? But what? That the masks were unnecessary or that the masks were mandatory? Oh, my God! The one from which the temperature should be measured or the one from which it should not be measured? Oh, my God! Which schools are to stay open or to which, two days later, close the schools? Oh, my God! The one where everything was prepared for distance teaching or the one where, instead of distance teaching, teaching is forbidden and children are forced to go on vacation? Oh, my God! The one that the British strain was not relevant or dangerous or that, two days later, the British strain was dominant? Oh, my God! What is the Government's position? On all these matters, the government has already said almost always everything and its opposite. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] He said he was going to be cautious, but then he wasn't; he was going to be tolerant, but then he wasn't... It is therefore very difficult, it is not even possible, to always be against the government, because the government now defends something, now defends exactly its opposite, in navigation in sight. Now there were computers, now there were no computers... As for the private, nor was it good for them to come to the solution, but, already in despair, says « come the private and come the social sector». [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] It has always been this way from the beginning. With regard to these reports, and even to conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that there has been a concern that I think must be clarified and that is this: surely on the basis of the law, we see a correct action by the authorities, often, to fine two cyclists who have passed from the council for any reason. But then, at the same time, we see assemblies and demonstrations of people in denialist attitudes, without mask, in which we do not see any kind of action. Of course, political demonstrations cannot be banned, that is not what is at stake, but people cannot be allowed to be in joints without the minimum of rules and without masks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u17	I have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u18	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr. Members : I would like to make three comments, in the balance sheet, on the successive states of emergency which the country has been living. A first comment on the extension of restrictive measures and their consequences; a second comment on delays in vaccination; and a third order of observations on the worsening economic and social situation of the country as a result of the prolongation of containment measures. With regard to the first question, it is evidence that the negative consequences of the extension of restrictive measures which have been imposed are starting to come to the top, so that what is increasingly important to discuss are the measures to be taken to ensure that defining progresses in security. It does not happen to us to deny the gravity of the situation that the country has been experiencing due to the epidemic of COVID-19, because this is evidence. Civil activities, cultural, sporting, economic activities must be resumed, with the necessary health security measures, but the perspective should not, from our point of view, bet on the continuity of confinement and, on the contrary, bet on a progressive defination that enables people to resume their normal life as far as possible and with security conditions as possible. This is because we are aware of the negative consequences in terms of economic and social activity, in terms of the learning of children and young people, in terms of the mental health of persons subject to confinement, and therefore we need to take safe but effective measures to ensure that this situation is overcome. The second order of questions has to do with the delay of vaccination. The position in which the Government has placed the country, to be dependent on the decisions taken in the European Union, has been disastrous since the management of vaccination by the European Union is obviously disastrous. We have heard the President of the European Commission constantly threatening laboratories with measures, but it is a position that reminds us of the "take-back" or I take action! ', because we have not yet seen any effective measures on the part of the European Union to overcome this situation of delay in the delivery of vaccines by laboratories in whose hands the European Union has placed itself. In Portugal, which placed itself entirely in the hands of the European Union on vaccines, this has been having consequences of delay in the vaccination plan which, from our point of view, needed to be recovered as quickly as possible. The last order of business, Mr President, and I will have to conclude, is the worsening economic and social situation. Failures, late wages, dismissals are very serious social consequences for which action is needed quickly. They demand quick measures, as I said at the outset, safe measures of defination, but also effective measures of support for all people and all economic activities that are being seriously affected by this pandemic. No one should be left behind, as the Government has often said, but more than that, effective action is needed. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u19	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These reports on the implementation of the state of emergency which the Government brings to the Assembly of the Republic begin to have, let us say, a very difficult relationship with reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u21	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u22	Let us see the latter, which refers to the period from 15 February to 1 March. On tests at COVID-19, the report says, and I quote : « As regards the test capacity at COVID-19, the significant reinforcement of the test was maintained ». However, if we look at the data, the reality is that, from 15 February to 1 March, the average daily was about 28 000 tests, but in the previous 15 years, the average had been 37 000 tests and two fifteens before it had been 63 000 tests. Therefore, this reinforcement of what the report is talking about.... Only if it's a backup down, obviously. On vaccines, the Government says in the last report that, until 12 March, 811 000 people with the first dose had been vaccinated and 333 000 people with the two doses, i.e. with the full vaccination scheme. This week, on Monday, the government said that by the end of this month, which is almost over, we would reach 1 million people vaccinated with the first dose and 500 000 people with the two doses administered. What the government does not say is that according to the initial expectations, which were that by the end of the first quarter we received 4 million doses, this would have to completely vaccinate more than 2 million people. So what we have today is 500 000 people with full vaccination. And the truth is that the government, in the face of this enormous delay, presents this delay as if it were a triumph, which obviously is not. The third aspect has to do with the economy. It says the report on the implementation of the state of emergency declaration that there has been an inflection of the slowdown in demand and will also seek a report from the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) to conclude that the prospects are even positive. Only that this refers to the same period when it was known that in Portugal a maximum of unemployment had been reached in the last four years. But on unemployment, for example, the report says nothing. So, taboo raza about the people who are suffering from the crisis, all to say that, looking well into the future, the prospects are even very positive. It is true that negationism is very bad for a pandemic. But there are various types of negationism and they all have very serious problems for those facing a pandemic. The government is in a negationist drift towards reality, of course. So today we have a testing strategy that has lost time and has not changed, we are currently delayed in vaccination, obviously by subservience to pharmaceuticals and the interests of pharmaceuticals, and we have a government that completely leaves the victims of the social and economic crisis to drift away. And so far it leads to the fact that, from the outset, it is under pressure to prevent the enactment of legislation adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic, which increases social support for self-employed persons. And the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, it is that this negationism of the government has only one consequence: it is to leave behind all the victims of the crisis. And that we cannot tolerate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u23	For an intervention, you have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alberto Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : From a year to this part, the Government and the Socialist Party are selling the illusion that « no one will stay behind ». That's not true! Thousands of lives remained behind, not only those sacrificed by the COVID, but many others, for other reasons, which could and should have been avoided, if the government was not contaminated by an ideological prejudice of extreme left, which refused them access to the health care they needed! Millions of users of the National Health Service have been left behind, who have seen their consultations, surgeries and treatments postponed, sometimes without account, because the government has not been able to plan and mobilize all resources and resources, existing in the health system in Portugal! They remained behind promises without end of support to companies and families, who were lost in advertisements and propaganda. 50 000 children and young people, who no longer received family allowances, were left behind because of lack of capacity to respond to social security. They left behind the promised mass testing and tracking of contact chains, the only ways to control epidemiological evolution. It also remained behind a strong and leadership position of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Council, for example in the controversy over the Astrazeneca vaccine. Lack of leadership, which is also evident in successive criteria changes in priority vaccination groups, always announcing new objectives, never ending the previous ones. Incompetence, particularly serious, when almost 90% of people who died with COVID were over 70 years old and many thousands of elderly people still remain unvaccinated. And, in these ages, as would be expected, the response rate to SMS call (shortmessage service) is reduced. What is required is more competence. The facts show that the only solution the Government has repeatedly launched to combat and control the pandemic has been the 'atomic bomb' of confinement, an extreme health measure, with grave effects on the economy and people's lives. And the use of this draconian solution only happened because the Socialist Party's Executive was unable, over nine months, to anticipate measures and decisions to safeguard public health and protect the economy. The PSD only demands that it govern, but the result is in sight: a very serious health imbalance, which placed us with the worst indicators in the world and which only returned because we were forced to confine ourselves again and in the worst way. The Portuguese deserve the government to stop 'running after the virus' and finally understand that the serious social and economic crisis in which the country is immersed requires less propaganda and more concrete action! This battle is only won by a government that can really anticipate solutions and put us in front of the virus, which unfortunately never happened. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u25	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The month of February — that month these two reports report — was one of the hardest months of our collective life. And it was also the time when a certain opposition wanted to present us as the worst in all countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u27	It was random virus!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u28	It is true that we have reached high levels of COVID-19 infections, it is true that more lives have been lost and it is also true that our National Health Service has approached dangerously its limit of response capacity. There is no denial, Mr. Alberto Machado!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u29	Azar is ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u30	But it is not worth creating parallel realities here, it is enough for us to have the hardness of reality that we face. And the truth is, while a certain opposition used this state of things to point out responsibilities to those who rule us, others even tried to show that the fault had not been for Christmas, but before the emergence of new, more contagious strains, which, this time, had reached our country before all the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u32	At the time, this argumentative line has often been considered even ridiculously, but today we know that the closest countries are now facing the difficulties we have already faced and we have already overcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have shown these countries the same spirit of solidarity that they had with us at a difficult time. This is the European spirit and this is also the spirit of the young Erasmus. February was an extraordinarily difficult month for Portuguese people who saw their relatives become ill and feared themselves to become ill, who were in stricter confinement, with their children at home, working far away, uncertain about their future. But this most difficult period was exceeded and sacrifices were even worth it. Now, we can conclude that, in health, we increase the care response, increase the testing and laboratory capacity, intensify the vaccination process, expand the human resources of the SNS throughout the line and all this seeking to strengthen the care recovery of non-COVID-19 activity. And in the protection of employment and businesses, we have extended the support already provided, allowing citizens and businesses to resist at this time of greater fragility. And no, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, we did not let them drift away! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This answer, given in February, enables us to continue to have hope in the future. We have started our decoupling process very carefully, they are vaccinated with the first dose almost 1, 5 million people, we are returning to school and our teachers and assistants will already begin to be vaccinated. One year ago, it was unthinkable that we had currently available vaccines and that a process was in place that would ensure, in the coming months, that 70% of our population would be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u34	to the right alarmism, we respond only with work and, above all, with responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can continue to look to the future. This stage really needs to be done well to focus on the recovery of economic activity and the guarantee of employment. There's a country we have to recover and a party that knows how to recover.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u35	There is a degree of « pulla-saco»...!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u36	As in 2015, without hesitation, we must recover jobs, recover investment, recover competitiveness and regain hope. The Government of the Socialist Party has never lowered its arms in the face of difficulties. And my generation also needs to believe in a future where dreams fall. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u37	To close the debate, the Government has the floor, the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would expect all parties, but above all those who seem somewhat disgusted with the capacity of the Portuguese and the institutions to respond to the terrible time we spent in January, to view the debate of these reports as a necessary exercise of account to the Assembly of the Republic and of political transparency, as we have been doing throughout this year. And if we recognize that, in January, we went through the most difficult moment of this pandemic, these data, corresponding to the entire month of February, prove exactly that we were right — President of the Republic, Assembly of the Republic and Government — as to how we took the necessary measures in our own time. We must also recognize here the effort of the Portuguese, which allowed this result, the effort of the National Health Service, of all health professionals, as well as the effort of those who are in the first line of response, such as firefighters, security forces or other civil protection agents, namely the Armed Forces or social security structures. It was possible to reduce the number of active cases of the disease from a peak of 181,000 to 31 January to 68 000, a little more than one third, at the end of these periods. It was possible to reduce admissions to one third at the end of the periods under review in relation to their initiation. It was possible to reduce more than 7000 new cases per day on 31 January to less than five hundred at the end of these periods. There was also a significant reduction in intensive care. This effort of all also meant that health professionals were where it was necessary, without any efforts, that the security forces responded and that the vaccination process created the necessary protection in the homes of the elderly and health professionals, and also reached the essential functions of the state, as happened with the vaccination of firemen and security forces professionals. This set of actions allowed us to prove that, in terrible times, we were united in the right way. The results are there. Let's go on. That is the subject of the debate to be followed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u39	We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which is part of the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. Mr. President of the Republic addressed to the Assembly a message for the purpose of this authorisation, which contains the basis and content of the draft decree of the President of the Republic, which renews the state of emergency for 15 days from 1 to 15 April 2021. Let us therefore start this debate. Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos, of the PS, has the floor for an intervention. In the meantime, I am aware that 187 are already registered. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore in a position to proceed to any vote. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have been living in pandemic for a year. It's a long time! The days have become different, the mornings have less azáfama, the people don't go to work, the telework has become part of the days of many Portuguese, forced to reinvent themselves in the world of labor relations. We see the anguish of those who no longer have work, the suffering of those who were sick and the disgust for those who left too early victims of COVID-19. It's very hard to go through all this, but we can't give up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u42	A pandemic is by definition, the initial denial of predictability, security and social trust and it already has a very high human, social and economic cost to all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u44	The response to COVID-19 in Portugal will be all the more effective, the more able we are to create a chain of trust. Health professionals have been an example of competence, availability and commitment. We have known, all — with rare exceptions — to balance the dichotomy between freedom and responsibility. We do not confuse isolation, as a preventive measure and as a conjunctural response to an epidemic phenomenon, with any form of legitimization of xenophobia and mistrust. Political leaders around the world, even those who radicalize protectionism, must understand that any response, to be structurally and globally effective, must be based on cooperation, scientific and technical sharing of data and strategies. The epidemiological trajectory of Portugal has been marked by the contraceptive in relation to other countries, for reasons of different order linked to our own specificity and context. We've been the worst, we're the best today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, deliberately ignoring this fact to take a blocking attitude, in view of political visibility, is useless, it is dangerous, but it is above all something that the Portuguese do not deserve and that they will not fail to register. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will approve 14. the state of emergency, because we need it, because we find, from the experience of several countries, beginning with our own, that a pandemic requires national plans with strict articulation of various levels of services and the complementarity of various interventions, where the health defense of borders assumes central importance. We approve the emergency-damaged renewal, because our individual freedom was imperatively to give in to collective freedom and because the right to health is now the first of the rights. And, above all, because from the beginning of the pandemic, those responsible for their management have complied with the first rule of crisis communication: they have used transparency, openness and honesty. We, ladies and gentlemen, cannot go without the intuition and knowledge of scientists who are making the future possible. We know for them that the measures have to be evolutionary and adapted to the epidemiological situation and we know that, despite uncertainty, we have the capacity to test, to vaccinate and that we walk to the immunity of a group that has cost us so much. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for now, we must only welcome the maturity of the Portuguese people and their institutions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is not invented and we trust it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u45	Mrs Isura Morais of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today another request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. A request for a justified renewal, since it is good to remember, without this renewal it would not be possible for the Government to approve most of the restrictive measures of rights imposed by public health protection. Once again, we make it clear that, as long as those assumptions remain, the Democratic Social Party will not fail to vote in favour of this request, because any other position would contradict the defence of the national interest as we understand it. The PSD's favourable vote for the renewal of the state of emergency is an expression of our sense of responsibility — not denying the Executive the means to effectively combat the pandemic — and our solidarity with the Portuguese, defending public health and protecting the most fragile. That said, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that a year ago, few or no one knew the size, impact and effects that the current COVID-19 pandemic would have in our country. Official figures indicate that, between March and December last year alone, unfortunately, nearly 100 000 people died in our country, more than 13 000 people died in the same period of the previous five years. Of these 13 000 deaths in excess, about half were caused by COVID-19 and the other half — more than 6000 — were due to non-COVID causes. For the PSD, the severity of this excess of mortality cannot be forgotten or squambled, especially when we still see an unprecedented reduction in the planned care activity of the National Health Service. Even today, the country learned that more than 54,000 patients have been waiting for the operation they need for more than one year and that 40% of the patients have already exceeded the maximum guaranteed response times — the threefold of five years ago. The Minister said, and she also acknowledged this week, that 6,000 cancer patients are waiting for cancer surgery, 1100 of which are considered priority. The Government should therefore urgently respond to this problem of lack of access to health, setting concrete goals for the recovery of lists and waiting times for consultations, surgeries and examinations. And it must do so without prejudices that make it difficult for people to access health care, which means the involvement of private and social sectors in the fight against waiting lists. But at this new stage, which is at the same time the renewal of the state of emergency and the beginning of a new defination, it is urgent to warn the government either of the risks of overconfidence, or of the dangers of hasty or insufficiently substantiated decisions. What is required of the government is not warnings, but concrete measures that reduce the transmission of the virus. Among these measures is particularly important for mass testing, which is a measure which the Government has promised so many times as many as it has postponed. But the fight against pandemics is mainly due to the universal vaccination of the population. And here too, the government has not been able to meet the responsibilities required of it, as well as the example of the successive cases of undue vaccination or the incompetence of the previous coordination of the task force. Also in the first phase of this process, we witnessed some subalternization of the priorityization of vaccination by age criteria, the wrong option if we bear in mind that this is the main risk factor of COVID-19. at the beginning of the second phase of the vaccination process it is important that vaccines are distributed by decreasing age criteria, in order to protect the most vulnerable citizens who, as we know, are also the elderly. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government has a tremendous responsibility: the process of opening up activities which is now beginning cannot be rushed or neglected. It should be made clear that Portugal, in the PSD's view, does not deserve nor can it be subjected to further confinement, once again caused by the government's contempt and irresponsibility. I finish by calling on the Portuguese to comply with the rules imposed on them. Even though the country's social and economic situation is more difficult, the Portuguese must be aware that only by the sacrifice of all can we overcome the struggle against the pandemic and regain our lives and our future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u47	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is understandable to all and to all that this state of emergency is inevitable. The need to guard the mobility of the population during the Easter period so requires. Therefore, by the Left Block, in the same way as we made it possible for the previous states of emergency, so we will also do so in this context. But just as we have previously demanded more of the government to respond to both the pandemic and the effects of the pandemic and the states of emergency, we cannot now silence our voice in the face of some inefficiencies, lack of effectiveness, or even incompetence we have seen in the executive power. Let's start with the obvious: vaccination and testing should be the motto the government should be implementing right now, but what they tell us is that the vaccine is late. And the truth is, as we are discussing today, if the plan was the initial one, we should be ready to complete the first phase of vaccination. Thus, due to the delay of the vaccines, this will only happen at the end of April. But the government does not want to demand what is obvious in Europe, i.e. that the patent ceases to be a barrier for people to be vaccinated, so that people are worth less than profit. This is why the government is compacting, giving more power to profit, giving more power to patents and leaving people behind. And that is what we cannot accept. More and more voices in Europe are outraged at the action of pharmaceuticals, only if the Portuguese Government is not the last to defend its people in this matter. But, as far as testing is concerned, once again, we see the delays. Since January it was promised to test in mass and now, as we discussed, there is still no task force meeting created to define the test program. Now, when the Government is missing, the Assembly of the Republic must stand up and, therefore, very soon, the Left Block will present what it considers to be a very successful suggestion for a test programme. But let's go to what today marks the government's action: instead of being outraged at the pandemic, rather than acting to contain the effects of impoverishment or increase inequities, instead of working against the economic effects that the pandemic and the state of emergency also behave, it is outraged at the Assembly of the Republic, something that is absolutely incomprehensible. And why? Will the Assembly of the Republic, which EDP ( Electricity of Portugal ), have fled to the payment of taxes? No, with EDP the government is not outraged. He was indignant because the Assembly of the Republic decided that what the government had done was after all a lot of park and did not respond to people. And by having decided, here, with a very large majority, in a set of voices to which only the Socialist Party has failed, that the support for self-employed workers cannot leave thousands out and can not leave almost all of them in poverty, about this, what the Government wants to do is be an opposition to those who respond to the crisis, an opposition to whom it says that social support should quickly reach people, and will knock at the door of the President of the Republic asking to veto what came out here from the Assembly of the Republic, ban social support reaching people. The government is not outraged at EDP, the government is not outraged at the millions with which EDP has fled to the tax payment, but outraged when the Assembly of the Republic promises and demands that the government comply with the people who are the real victims of the pandemic and the chaos that our economy is suffering. It's incomprehensible. Absolutely incomprehensible! So what is expected is that the government will assume here, in a loud voice, face this opposition to a country that demands a response to an increase in crisis and poverty. If the government faces, then it must respond, because it has already said no once, in the State budget, to the support that is needed today for people. It has been repeated in January this year because what you did in the State Budget was not enough and therefore we realize that it is in the failure of the government that are now beginning to build the alternatives. What the government has repeated—see how this way of legislation is mastered—is to defend the people of the pandemic, is applied to the incomes of 2020, exactly the year in which the pandemic dug deeper into people's wallets, where inequalities have increased and in which poverty has also increased. It's incomprehensible. When the Assembly of the Republic corrects only one little thing, that income, if it is to respond to a pandemic, is not for the year 2020 — the year of the pandemic — but for the year 2019, and that this support can reach people, what does the government do? Amua and you will ask Belém for the veto. Incomprehensible! Absolutely unacceptable! We do not deal with a government that leaves people behind, and that is the requirement that the Assembly of the Republic put, with a proposal from the Left Block, and we hope that the President of the Republic will also be in solidarity with it. I shall finish, Mr President, with a time bomb, a disaster that we all see will happen and to which the government is afraid not to respond. It is that at the end of this month also the banking moratoriums for a fifth of the families that, in our country, have access to a bank credit come to an end. About this, the question that remains is: is there any program? Is there a plan? Is there any solution to present these families?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u50	The government has nothing but silence. Those who turn to silence in the face of this ongoing disaster must also be held accountable for it. That is why we say that the government cannot shut up, because if it shuts up it is turning its backs on the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u51	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: throughout the various periods of emergency state and restrictive measures of the so-called confinement, the CFP has stressed concerns and insisted on proposals that the national reality continues to confirm as absolutely central. It is now justified to insist on some of these concerns, but also on measures which, as an alternative to confinement, must be put in place. We stress, once again, that what is needed is to take the alternative measures of confinement so that it ends and does not repeat itself, it is necessary to ensure vaccination, screening and testing, it is necessary to ensure wages and payment, to stop dismissal, to deregulation of schedules and other abuses on workers, to support families and MPMEs (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises), to extend moratoriums, to prevent bankruptcy or evictions. Today, we are again discussing the statement of the state of emergency and the extension of the confinement, in a more or less disguised way, when we should be discussing the resolution to get out of the confinement. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u53	Instead of discussing the extension of the confinement that will continue to stifling the lives of the Portuguese, we should be discussing measures that would give them some prospect of confidence and courage for the future. Instead of restrictive measures, we should be discussing measures that would ensure defination and be able to avoid further confinement. We stress the need for this discussion, not only in the face of the dramatic evolution of national life, but also because we do not devalue or underestimate the signs of increasing questioning, confrontation and even rejection that restrictive measures are finding, in an increasingly widespread way. Beyond the discussion of the state of emergency, we insist on the need to strengthen the structure and public health teams so that there is effective screening and testing and we can release ourselves with confidence from confinement. We insist on the need to resume the functioning of schools, recover delays in the teaching and learning process, resume the socialization of children and young people, taking the measures necessary to ensure an environment of security and tranquility of educational communities. We insist on the need to define clear operating rules in all areas and sectors of national life so that economic, social, cultural and sporting activities can be resumed in conditions of health safety. It is necessary to ensure vaccination and to overcome once and for all the difficulties created by multinational pharmaceuticals who do not comply with the contracts and leave the country without sufficient vaccines. The PCP has already presented its proposals on vaccination and they are clear: diversifying the purchase of vaccines, making available to the country all vaccines that can be used in safety and efficacy conditions; creating conditions for the national production of vaccines, making the necessary investment, either in the level of scientific and technological development, or in the industrial capacity for their production; suspending or canceling patents, if that is the way to break the blockade imposed by pharmacists to the only and true solution capable of saving lives and combating the epidemic. This is what the CFP is going to bring to the discussion of the Assembly of the Republic on 8 April, and that is what each party will have to say in order for the decisions to be taken. In the context of vaccination, it is also important to ensure that the process progresses without further setbacks or difficulties. It is absolutely essential that the Government assume its responsibility in organizing the vaccination process through the SNS, ensuring all the means necessary for that purpose. To push to the authorities responsibility for the hiring of nurses or for the realization of other practical aspects essential so that the advanced vaccination would mean that the country would be handed over to the logic of salvation who can and, more seriously, would mean that the vaccination criteria ceased to be those that were decided and that the Portuguese would then become vaccinated according to the financial capacity of their autarchies. Finally, the problems that persist in economic and social support for workers, families and small and medium-sized enterprises (small and medium-sized enterprises) need to be solved, and the situation in support continues to fail to arrive in time, to the extent necessary or to whom they need it. Next day 31 we will discuss a proposal from the CFP to ensure that credit moratoriums, whether family or business, can be extended and strengthened, in order to avoid the cut on the country, with threats of bankruptcy and closure of domino companies, increase unemployment, waste and housing. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, confinement is an exception, it is not a solution. The CFP will therefore continue to beat itself with the proposals and solutions needed to solve the serious problems facing the people and the country and we will not spare any effort to achieve them, definitely furnishing the border of the horizon of national life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u54	Mr Cecilia Meireles spoke for one speech by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in this renewal of the state of emergency declaration, the first thing to say is the most obvious thing, that is, the exception should not become the rule. A state of emergency is always, by nature, absolutely exceptional. With more than one year of pandemic, which we have already taken, we are used to trivializing restrictions on freedom or seeing as normal obstacles and prohibitions that would appear previously unthinkable. They're not. They are not normal and we must never forget that they are not. It can only exist in the strict measure of what is necessary and, as such, we must remember that these states of emergency should only and can only be approved as strictly necessary, in the specific case, of the strictly necessary to continue to defuse the country without ziggotas, without constant advances and retreats, i.e. — and explaining with caution, with legal certainty and with the predictability necessary to preserve not only health but also the economy, which has already been very massacred and very ill-treated. the same way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have the health situation that followed Christmas, nor can we repeat the disaster that summer has been for tourism, for restaurants and for Portuguese hotels. The government, which is always very fast to throw the blame on the Portuguese when something goes wrong, is not able to assume its responsibilities when ruling badly. I would like to devote this time to the conditions that the government has not given and has not created so that the Portuguese, the economy, businesses and workers, in short, the country, could overcome the pandemic in security. For example, I am starting with the job and measure of the simplified layoff. We had mistakes, advances and setbacks in this measure. It is undoubtedly the most relevant measure of all in terms of job preservation, but it should be remembered that it was the Court of Auditors who classified it and compared it with what has been done in other European countries, bearing in mind that we had one of the most restrictive simplified layoffs and the most difficult to access throughout Europe. By translating: In many cases, we are talking about companies that have not been able to work for another year or who work with a third of the customers, with schedules always changing, under conditions that, week by week, can be changed, which is even more difficult. The fact that the design of the measure was very restrictive meant for many of these companies that their workers did not have access to the measure. With the combination with support for progressive recovery, the system has improved, but it needs to continue to work. in the same way, more than billions — still in the morning I heard more than billions and it is not worth getting into the various contradictions about numbers — it is not possible to forget the tax relief and contribution that did not exist. Last year, I still remember the government reminding me of a tax relief and a contribution of EUR 3900 million. At the end of the year, taken into account, reality came a little more than one third of what had been announced. in the same way, the APOIR.PT programme, which is certain to be the bottom-up and the fact that it depends on the support of objective criteria - that part is positive - has a problem: the problem is that it is little. It's really very little, in the face of needs. Now, it's for all of this that the system's exhaust valve was the banking moratoriums and that's why they're a time bomb. I would like to remember that when we talk about extending the moratoriums, or rather, delaying the payment of the moratoriums, we are not talking about disabling the time bomb, we are just talking about delaying the moment of its explosion. Yes, it is not now possible for companies to pay and not continue to have moratoriums, but it is also necessary to start thinking about a solution for the future, because they will not be able to exist forever. To sum up and conclude, we cannot have two countries, one that can confine and that continues to have their work, their rights and their wages, and another that loses everything, does not find answers and cannot stay at home because it simply does not find a way to sustain itself. The CDS will therefore vote in favour of this state of emergency to the extent strictly necessary for the country to be able to de-definite safely and will continue to propose alternatives for Portugal to be one to overcome the difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u56	Mr André Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most recent data on the evolution of the epidemiological situation in the country show us that citizens and citizens, with sacrifice, effort and resilience, are able to maintain the tendency to reduce the number of cases and to prevent the country from exceeding the red lines that should guide us in the near future and that are a reference for the application of restrictive measures. But the risks didn't disappear. Just see that, for example, the R approaches long steps of 1, something that, if persisting, would force us to retreat. It would be irresponsible to ignore it and radically change position just to say what people want to hear. Over the past few weeks, there has been an increase in mobility and contacts beyond the expected level of restrictions, particularly older people, who erroneously associate vaccination with non-transmissibility. It is necessary for the government and the health authorities to communicate better, to make it clear that today's disobedience can mean tomorrow's restriction, which is something that no one wants, and they repeat until the exhaustion that vaccination cannot, for now, bring the reduction of caution. It is also known that the risk of new variants is there and has come to stay. We must therefore do two things here: on the one hand, to continue to intensify epidemiological surveillance, with a collaborative network of laboratories, and on the other hand, the Government must avoid repeating the errors that allowed the British variant to be massed, taking firm and restrictive measures in border control, with a network that effectively flies, identifies its origin, requires tests for each passenger and preventive quarantine. The lightness in border control and the monitoring of new variants today will, of course, be the restriction of tomorrow. Finally, we must not forget that the key to effective and lasting defination is in the massive testing of the population and in the success of the vaccination plan. As far as testing is concerned, we welcome the fact that Mr President of the Republic has welcomed the suggestion of the NAP and, in his Decree, enshrined the possibility of fixing maximum price ceilings for self-tests to ensure that this additional mechanism can be accessible to the largest number of people, not being a privilege for just a few. the government needs, while it is time, to withdraw this possibility from the paper and set these maximum prices, but go further and ensure that these tests are taken seriously and are not merely curious times of pandemic. There must be a more active role of the pharmacy, with the obligation to deliver the test with a record of the result, so that there can be effective control of the results. The Government must ensure mass testing of populations, especially the most vulnerable populations, public transport users and workers who have greater contact with the public. at a time when we approach broad steps of the reopening of cultural activities, the government must ensure the mass testing of these professionals, not only to protect them but mainly to strengthen the idea that culture is safe. As far as vaccination is concerned, for a number of reasons, some foreigners to our country are not running as desired. However, we were promised that in the coming weeks we would have a tsunami of vaccination. We hope that this tsunami will not turn into a layday, with a flat sea that makes the vaccination plan a flop. As regards the area of education, the Government must ensure that all educational agents are vaccinated. There can be no first and second professionals, one cannot continue to follow the logic that it is only necessary to vaccinate teachers and assistants, forgetting the operational assistants and other school employees, who are subject to equal or greater risk. If we are promised a tsunami, we should not forget to anticipate the vaccination of the population aged between 40 and 60, taking into account the high level of occupation in intensive care that has occurred in this age group, and to include workers of all essential services, whether they are public or private. I end by exalting, once again, all health professionals and other professionals from the front line, recalling that while many and many are at home, professionals such as supermarket cashiers, pickpockets, drivers or Uber Eats scams have never stopped working, because even during confinement they have always been exposed to the virus. All these professionals should not only be grateful in words but also in actions, placing them in the front line of vaccination.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u58	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year and two very difficult confinements later, with all the knowledge accumulated by the technicians who have always been with the government and available to provide clarification to the Members of this House and with the numbers to decline in a consolidated manner, this is the time to look to the future. The Greens believe that it is no longer time for us to be debating another state of emergency. This is the time to find preventive measures and implement them so that we can resume life in security in the most diverse areas, education, employment, culture, sport, tourism. It is time to continue to be very attentive to the epidemiological situation, not wavering in the face of danger or devalued for 1 minute even the risks of a strange and yet undominated disease, to initiate a serious assessment of the economic, social and health situation of Portuguese, knowing what their needs and strengthening the support so that micro and small entrepreneurs can continue with open doors, or reopening them, ensuring jobs. It is time to contain mass redundancies, even when the state of emergency prevails and the government announces measures behind each other to support companies. It is time to see whether these support is reaching companies and whether they are applying them in what is most important, the defense of the conditions of their workers. It is time for the Portuguese Government to do one of the two things, or perhaps both: take its role in the presidency of the European Union, seeking to extend the supply of vaccines facing the powerful interests of pharmaceuticals and demanding them to comply with contracts, or to ensure, at national level, the purchase of more vaccines to other suppliers. If there is an aspect that is not understood, it is because there are so many exceptions justified to what is essential, because of the extraordinary situation that we are living in. All the rules must be followed, all the steps must be followed, and all the orders coming from Brussels must be respected. It is time to give hope to the Portuguese, ensuring vaccination, overcoming the problems that may exist, especially in terms of the hiring of the required nurses, ensuring mass testing, so promised and has not yet been carried out, ensuring tracking and, above all, ensuring the conditions of isolation. The isolation needs the close follow-up of the infected person, daily, by health professionals, needs housing conditions, so that the remaining members of the family are not at risk, and needs economic conditions, so that no one can say that he is infected because financially this is inappropriate. Let's go back to it, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This should be another time, the time when everyone knew how to walk on the street not to create risks to each other, but also knew how to be in a showroom, in a commercial establishment, in a public transport, in a workplace, in a sports space, in an outdoor event, in a religious ceremony, as in spite of everything, in this time that has passed, those who have resisted and have not resigned proved that it is possible. But this is mainly the time of each one to know that he may be there, because security conditions are created, which can be carried out in public transport, because the supply has multiplied, which can be rested in his or her employment, because the competent authorities have the means to monitor compliance with the rules, which can go to the health centre, because he or she will be treated safely. For these days, we are celebrating the National Student Day, which was yesterday, and the National Youth Day, which will be next Sunday. This is the time to open horizons for young people, to get out of the shells where they have been closed for too long, with all the economic and social consequences but particularly in mental health, and to allow all the care and safety rules to socialize, contact, exchange affections and grow. It is for this time that we want to convene the Portuguese, but first the Government. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u60	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government before this House today has taken a simple decision, to close everything — to close everything and not allow any activity, or almost none, to remain open. The result is in sight. In January alone, more than 100 000 consultations, 21 000 surgeries and millions of medical acts were postponed, as if COVID were the only thing that existed in Portugal and that mattered to Portuguese. The youth unemployment rate reached the extraordinary value of 22, 6 %, something that neither in the worst nightmares of the European Union hoped could happen. Such a government that supports young people has reached an unemployment rate of 22, 6 %! In the middle of this, a quarter of a million Portuguese now have the RSI (social income of insertion) and, as if it did not suffice what we went to pay, we paid even more because, I repeat, it is almost a quarter of a million living from state subsidies. Independent workers live in permanent uncertainty of whether they will be able to pay the most basic expenses of their lives tomorrow. The government has decided to close everything, even against what the World Health Organization for COVID-19 said in Europe: « Stop using confinement as a source to fight the virus ». Even with that, Antonio Costa, the specialist in epidemiology and public health, decided that it was better this way. And so we continue, with a closed country, with no solutions, with thousands failing and thousands without being able to pay accounts. In the middle of all this, the deadline for the moratoriums will end at the end of this month and millions will have to pay back the loan to housing when their establishments are still closed. It is the same as saying: « Keep closed, but pay what is due to the bank, because that is what makes Portugal work ». It is the same as saying: « The government has debts with you, but pay the rents, because that is what the Tax Authority serves, that is why it serves the law in Portugal, to protect the strong and to continue pursuing the weak ». António Costa, in December 2015, told this House : « The tragic, which is even tragic for a country is when we forget the concrete solutions of people and we start ruling for pure ideological orientation». of the place where I am now, of the rostrum, I was talking about an opposition that had lost the elections and said that the greatest tragedy for a country was to rule by ideology. How good it would be for António Costa de 2015 to listen to the António Costa de 2020 and 2021 and remember that it is not to rule for the extreme left that we take the country forward, it is to rule for one and only one entity, the Portuguese. It is that Portugal, for us, will always be above all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u62	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This decree, which renews, for the tenth time, the second state of emergency, has only two amendments to the previous one and none of them is good. The Soviet point of type on price control, whose damage will soon be visible, has now been specified that price control covers the tests. We do not know whether they are the tests acquired by the State — and, in this case, good luck forcing suppliers to sell — or whether they are the so-called self-tests that can be acquired by the people. It is clear in this case that the all-powerful socialist state no longer remembers — no longer remembers! — the price and speed at which the prices of the masks or the alcohol gel have fallen, nor does it realize that this price drop only occurs if there is no price control and if there is competition. The other amendment concerns the processing of personal data for vaccination purposes. The Liberal Initiative had already warned that vaccination criteria were too complex and that it was clearly advised that, after vaccination of clearly priority groups, as health professionals and people in the homes of the elderly, the only priority criterion was age. when choosing not to do so, the government has created a complex system, which cannot contact those who should be vaccinated, requires the processing of many personal data, those who are now intended to regulate themselves, and occupy thousands of hours of the time of health professionals who, I suppose — we all agree here — have far more important things to do in the days that run. Therefore, with these two amendments, in which none of them is good, we will continue to vote against this Decree and we will continue to draw attention to everything that seems to us that can be improved in the fight against pandemics, such as not to misuse the usefulness of the risk matrix that was adopted 15 days ago. I know that many thought and sophisticated heads have ridiculed the simplicity of the matrix, but for the Liberal Initiative, which has always insisted on the importance of scientific data to support the adoption of measures, the matrix is useful because it allows two important things: to have clear criteria for decision-making and to be understood by the population. This is why it is worrying that the continuing lack of articulation of the various plans that may affect the constant indicators of the matrix, incidence and transmissibility. It is therefore urgent to articulate the testing plans, which continue to be insufficient, of screening, without which the testing of nothing serves, and of vaccination, which has a direct effect on transmissibility, with the containment or defining measures that are being adopted. In order for us not to be right again before time and for our lives to return to normal as soon as possible, it was good for the government to listen to us at first. It was good for the socialists to listen to the liberals once again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u64	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We celebrated yesterday the National Student Day, which is celebrated since 1987, something that was established in honor to students victims of fascist social repression in 1962. Students are agents of political, social and cultural transformation of all societies and deserve the opportunity to develop their skills and abilities in good conditions. In time of COVID-19 and health pandemic, we have asked the schools, teachers, teachers, school workers and educational institutions, universities, and we have asked the students and national students immensely. The pandemic revealed serious social asymmetries, revealed serious economic asymmetries between students and students, demanded drastic changes to teaching methods, with online classes, opening and closing schools, learning difficulties, students without computers or material, finally exposing the deficiencies of the national educational system. We need to work for an equal, cooperative, inclusive, accessible education, and we need to call for a renewal of curricula that favours new understandings, new visions and also new forms of not imparting knowledge but sharing knowledge. I greet the students of the climate strike and students, as well as all the disadvantaged students who, under difficult conditions, have worked hard to maintain themselves. It is necessary to appeal to the model of education that reflects the needs, expectations and interests of students and students.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u66	It is the time of the unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues to intervene. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The cumulative 14-day incidence of COVID-19 in Portugal has maintained a downward trend throughout the country. At present, we are the Member State of the European Union with fewer cases per million inhabitants and fewer daily deaths than the European average, as a result of the collective effort that has been made. But not everything is good news. As regards vaccination, 91 % of the Portuguese population have not taken any dose of the vaccine yet. We know that in order to achieve the goal of vaccinating 70% of the population by the end of summer it is necessary to triple the current capacity. And if it is true that the opening of new vaccination centres is being prepared, it is also true that many authorities have declared that, if material and human resources are not strengthened, it will not be possible to achieve this objective. In short, we need nurses to comply with the vaccination plan, recover the scheduled activity, ensure the necessary rest of these professionals and improve the quality of the services. That is why we are surprised to hear that there are nurses to be dispensed. Yes, we know that the government announced that nurses would not be missing and identified the lack of 2500 of these professionals. We hope that this recruitment process does not decorate as the one concerning the hiring of 40 psychologists to the SNS, which began in 2018 and has no end to view. An efficient vaccination plan will be combined with a mass testing plan. Otherwise we will not be able to return to normality as soon as possible, with all the social and economic implications that this will have for people. See the culture sector, which closed its doors in March 2020, with the aggravating of most professionals in the sector not yet received a single euro. by the way, the Guarantee Culture Programme has not yet guaranteed anything. Basically, we must do everything we can to ensure that the defination process is successful and that we can end as soon as possible with the declaration of the state of emergency, until it is necessary to continue certain restrictive measures. If it is true that we have to survive the pandemic crisis, it is also true that we cannot continue to disregard the economic and social crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u68	To close the debate, the Government has the floor, through the Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today, in this debate, to discuss 14. the state of emergency decree, submitted to the Assembly of the Republic by the President of the Republic. The first occurred significantly a year ago when we met here on March 18, 2020. We are faced with the greatest challenge of national cohesion, of European unity, of the ability to unite in the defence of public health and democratic values. This pandemic has already affected more than 2 million European citizens and has caused nearly 600 000 deaths in the European Union. In Portugal, we are today confronted with the evaluation of this proposal by Mr President of the Republic, but above all also with the strategic convergence between the demonstration that we will probably have to be in a state of emergency until the beginning of May, in line with the defination plan presented by the Government, also providing for a phased plan with clear, transparent rules of defination until the beginning of May 3. We are facing today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with a call for convergence, with an appeal for resilience, around measures we have approved, we have implemented and are proving that they have meaning, which results. That is why in the last 45 days, since the end of January, what we have seen is that Portugal has about one sixth of the active cases today than it had at the end of January; that today the number of admissions is smaller, also reducing to about one fifth of those we had a month and a half ago and that, even in intensive care, we have been consolidating a clearly positive development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is based on this assessment of the results that we can even say today that, for the first time since I have been here with you to do these debates, one year ago, in terms of counterparts, we are better than on the same day a year ago. A year ago we had more cases and more deaths than were recorded today. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to mobilize so that in the next fortnight, which is decisive, especially these days until next week, by 5 April — in which we will be able to make this collective effort and prove to ourselves that we have resilience capacity, which we have achieved — we can say here the results that will enable us, in accordance with the Government programme, to follow the Easter which also 2. o and 3. the cycles can have classes, which can open the areas of esplanade in restaurants and that the street shops, neighborhood, can open. This depends on all of us; this has not ended and essentially depends on what we do in the next few days until Easter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, at the moment, I wanted to express my deep confidence in Portuguese, my deep confidence in democratic institutions, my confidence in the National Health Service and — let me also say so — my confidence in the security forces, for their dedication to the public cause. My confidence in the Portuguese is due to them the essential result of the last 50 days and the Portuguese will depend on the results that I hope we will be here to discuss in the next debate at the beginning of April. My confidence in the institutions because only this strategic convergence, this cooperation between the President of the Republic and more than 80 % of the Assembly of the Republic and the Government allow us the legal framework, the institutional framework, which allows us to adopt measures leading to this result. The confidence in the National Health Service, in the capacity of its professionals, who have responded at the most difficult time and who are already responding to non-COVID cases, is already actively contributing to the effectiveness of the vaccination process. Trust in security forces, which, always with a sense of proportionality, without jeopardizing democratic freedoms, has contributed decisively to how these measures have been implemented. For this success, but also for this responsibility, for this tremendous challenge that is ahead of us, first of all, there is a health response, which strengthens the ability to reduce cases, there is a response that passes through testing, which has already begun — we have seen all education professionals to be tested and it is assumed that there will be regular, massive testing in municipalities with more than 120 cases per 100,000 inhabitants — but there is also a response that passes through vaccination. Although the one who has been the widespread failure by the pharmaceuticals of the contractual commitments, I would like to know which is the parliamentary group that you think we would be better off if we were with those who, wanting to break European unity, wanted us to be alone negotiating vaccines, you know who to deal with. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, our path is with Europe, it is not with those who want to cause division among Europeans. That is why today we can point to a sign of hope given to us by the fact that this week we have exceeded 1 million Portuguese who have already received the first dose of the vaccine and in the coming days we reach half a million Portuguese with the two administered doses, that is, with their full vaccination process. We have clear priorities here. First, it was the health professionals; then it was the professionals and users of the homes and, therefore, the outbreaks have decreased; now it is a clear priority for the elderly — about two thirds of citizens over 80 years of age — and the education agents, who will be vaccinated in mass from next weekend. But we must also give an economic answer. That is why 672 000 Portuguese have already benefited from extraordinary support for their situation of economic fragility and EUR 847 million have been mobilised for extraordinary measures to support employment. No, they're not ads! No, they're not promises! They are real people and real resources that have already been paid to concrete citizens. We must continue with these measures in a dimension of concern about the external impact. I heard here mention the danger of the British variant or the Brazilian variant. Yes, it is complex, but that is why the flights from the United Kingdom and Brazil are suspended and, yes, we are checking those arriving in our country, indirectly, from these origins, such as those coming from South Africa. It is also important to say that, next week, there will be no tourist trips to Portugal and only those who travel here will be admitted for essential reasons. These are ways of ensuring our health security, such as the increased effort to maintain controls at the land borders by 5 April. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this collective effort, in which Portuguese deserve the greatest confidence and in which health professionals are the guarantors of our ability to respond, that is in this period, in which we would like to be with our closest relatives, who we have to say « no, it will not be possible». For health, for the economy, for democracy, we need to do more of this effort of national cohesion to respond to the pandemic, so that we can fulfil the defining plan and those that are the defined objectives, to advance with vaccination, consolidate the response to the pandemic and, above all, relaunch the economy and strengthen the confidence of Portuguese in democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u70	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the debate and we have a quorum so that we can proceed to the vote on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency, so we will do so immediately. Let us then vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Members, I inform you that the Member of the Liberal Initiative is not present at this time of vote. Having approved the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency, we will move to the third point of our agenda, with the general assessment of the Bill No 78 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the cessation of the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines adopted under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. You have the floor for one speech, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mário Belo Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In March of last year, after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, very restrictive measures were taken of the activity of the justice system and other public services. As soon as June, it was possible to start the resumption of the activity on the basis of two fundamental measures: the cessation of the exceptional regime of suspension of the deadlines and the termination, in the non-emergency proceedings, of the regime of suspension of the hearings and other proceedings. However, the subsequent worsening of the pandemic crisis required the application of new exceptional measures, so Law No. 4 - B / 2021 of 1 February imposed a new period of suspension of the generality of procedural, procedural and administrative deadlines, as a way to reduce mobility and social interaction. The positive development of the meanwhile verified pandemic allows for a further revision of the regulatory framework for the suspension of deadlines in order to ensure the resumption of normal functioning of courts and other public services, without prejudice to the necessary precautions regarding acts to be carried out in a face-to-face manner. The proposal for a law which we present today aims to put an end to the suspension of the currently in force deadlines, and to resume the execution of judgments and other judicial proceedings, in accordance with an exceptional and transitional regime characterized, essentially, by the following: first, the hearings of discussion and trial, as well as other proceedings involving the inquiry of witnesses, are carried out, in principle, at present, if necessary in a place other than the premises of the court; when they cannot be done present and this does not cause injury for the purposes of the execution of the court, they are carried out through appropriate means of communication at a distance, except in the criminal proceedings — as regards the statements of the defendant, testimony of witnesses or testimony of party. Second: in the other difficulties that required the physical presence of the procedural actors, the criterion is the reverse, i.e. preferably, they are carried out through distance communication media and when this becomes necessary then takes place in the presence. Third : in any case, it is up to the court to ensure that judicial acts are carried out with respect to the maximum limit of persons and other health rules defined by the Directorate-General for Health. Moreover, procedural actors, when they are over 70 years of age, immunodepressed or chronic disease patients to be considered as at risk, are not required to travel to a court. in this case, wishing to exercise this right, their inquiry or follow-up of the inquiry shall be carried out by means of distance communication from the legal or professional home of the person concerned. Fifth: as regards the defendants, it is stated that their presence is guaranteed in the educational debate and in the trial session, when the statement of the defendant or arguado and the testimony of witnesses takes place. Sixth : it should be noted, however, that during the period of the exceptional and transitional arrangements the period of submission of the debtor to insolvency is still suspended; the acts to be carried out in the context of executive proceedings or insolvency relating to the judicial delivery of the house of residence; the acts implementing the delivery of the leased place, where the tenant, by virtue of judicial decision, may be placed in a situation of fragility due to lack of his own or other imperative social reason; the periods of limitation and expiry relating to the procedures and procedures referred to above, as well as the procedures for which the proceedings cannot be carried out in accordance with the proposed exceptional and transitional arrangements. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In its fundamental lines, this is the content of the bill. A final word to state that the necessary health security conditions are guaranteed for judges, lawyers, judicial officers and citizens who use the courts and other justice services, as well as to reaffirm the Government's appreciation of all those who contribute, every day, to the regular functioning of the justice system, as a fundamental instrument for defending citizens' rights and social and economic development. With your work and dedication, we will once again normalize the functioning of our justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u72	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u73	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this regime, being transitional, makes sense in the circumstances in which it is presented. It agrees, however, with some clarifications that have been raised not only by the entities but also by the functioning of the justice system itself. When it comes to the inquiry of witnesses, and this is, in fact, one of the data indicated by various opinions, it should be extended to all parties, which not only to the witnesses. We may have hearings not only for the inquiry of witnesses, we may have hearings of experts, assistants or other entities, and this should have been sent to the diploma. On the other hand, I believe that the most preponderant data is linked to the suspension of the execution of the leased site, since the Government insists on this version only to take care of one of the interests in dispute, not looking at the possibility of irreparable damage on the other side of the contract, also on the part of the landlord or on the other side of the contractual parties. Finally, in relation to the limitation and expiry periods, this system has opted for a simple model, which basically means that the limitation and expiry period, if the due diligence is not carried out during this period, is suspended. Here, the question which is raised, for example, by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, is what happens if the diligence still comes into being within the same state of emergency or exceptional regime, because in this case the law contradicts itself, saying that an act that has already been carried out remains suspended. That does not make sense to keep the deadlines suspended, since the diligence itself has already taken place. These are technical failures, but still they are failures that the government's diploma should foresee.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u74	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is a strategic sector in the country that has to start working with some normality, this sector is in fact the sector of justice. And what the government here presents to us is a so-called "defination law". Since the country is improving, in the data of the COVID, it makes sense that the courts are also in line with the new reality. This law of defining is an understandable law. There is no perfect law — Mr Ventura has just shown here two or three points where it could be improved, and there will be others — but, essentially, this law serves the interests of justice and the judicial sector. I am not saying this to « take my hat away from the government » or to make any laudatory statement about the Socialist Party. Not at all! Don't even count on us to make opposition just to do it. Don't count on us for that. This law serves the country because it is exactly the same law—with one or other unimportant nuance—which Parliament approved in the first defination of May 2020. It approved it with the favourable votes of the PSD and PS, without votes against any other party. Therefore, if the law has served — and has served — until now, during this year, it is clear that it will also serve for the future, because there was no kind of reaction, of turmoil, of problem, of negative signaling by the judicial sector. In fact, there is not a single opinion of institutional entities which introduce substantive amendments to this bill. Not a single one! What we should all be concerned about is also relatively secure. Why? Because the rule, in this law, is the realization of face-to-face inquiries. This is the rule. The exception to exceptions is to carry out long-distance inquiries. Even so, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has already said that in the criminal procedure it is impossible to carry out long-distance inquiries, because they have to be present. There's no doubt about it. For the less enlightened spirits, it is enough to read the bill: « The hearings of discussion and judgment, as well as other proceedings...» — of course it should be here « as well as other hearings and inquiries», but, to the good understanding, half-word is enough — «... they are carried out in person». This is what point ( a ) says. In point ( b ), it is said to be carried out by « distance communication means where they cannot be made in accordance with the preceding paragraph ». That is, we have the rule in point ( a) and the exception in point ( b). This is clear and leaves us relatively calm. With regard to the entry into force of this law, the proposal is omitted, which means that it would enter into force on the day following its publication. We understand that this is not a good way. The Socialist Party presented a proposal for an amendment to be adopted on 6 April, which is the first day following the judicial holidays. It makes all the sense and, as it all makes all the sense, the PSD signs below.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u76	It could have been better.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u77	The CFP appears with another proposal, by April 13. We understand that the courts, the country, the state, companies, families and people cannot be more time waiting for the courts to function and for the processing of proceedings. It has to be faster. We have to work in normal conditions, as we did before. My last question has to do with an alleged rule of interpretation, which many have wanted to put in these amendments. Deep down, it was weird, something unusual. The PAN, moreover, does so, so we will vote against, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. The NAP says that this bill should introduce an interpretative rule on a matter which the law itself will repeal, which is strange. That is a formal question. More important than that — do not forget, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real — is that the courts have already decided questions, in a way even contradictory, with traffic in judgment, in a definitive and irrevocable way, which have already caused very serious impact, effects and consequences on people's lives, in their personal and heritage sphere. Tell me, then, is Parliament now going to dismiss what the courts have already said? Oh, my God! How are the courts going to solve that? Oh, my God! These are questions that I leave to everyone's reflection. Therefore, we cannot support your proposal, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Obviously, we will vote in favour of the Government's bill. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u78	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : Perhaps a small exercise should be done through the last year that we have spent. About a year ago, we faced the first wave of this pandemic crisis, which we had never imagined before and which forced us to adopt, for the first time in democracy, a state of emergency declaration, which, in fact, was renewed for the fourth time today. It also forced us to implement exceptional and temporary measures that would enable us to respond to the epidemiological situation. In the justice sector, as in other activities in the country, it was necessary to consider what could be expected and what had to continue to be done. this weighting resulted, as far as justice is concerned, the legal regime that we adopted last March. The worrying evolution of the pandemic situation, already recorded at the beginning of this year, imposed a double mission on justice: to ensure that it continued to operate as a pillar of the democratic rule of law, allowing the practice of indispensable and reasonable acts to ensure that measures were taken that would contribute to the reduction of contaminations, without losing sight of the need of justice actors to participate in conditions of absolute security. This is also the time to assess the response that Parliament gave at the beginning of this year, and the truth is that the legislative response not only met the desired statement of the state of emergency, but did not paralyze the judicial system, as it also guaranteed the constitutional principles applicable. Let us see: with the suspension of procedural deadlines in non-emergency processes, we allow justice to focus, at an exceptional stage, on what was indispensable from the point of view of its achievement and protection of citizens. We've done it! In order to carry out investigations through the electronic route, we allowed citizens to continue to rely on justice in times of adaptation in a time of maximum restriction in the name of public health. In this respect too, we have fulfilled! With the processing of urgent processes, which have added other exceptions to the general suspension rule, we allow justice to continue to function as a fundamental pillar, without questioning the premise of reducing the contagions. In this respect too, we can say that we have fulfilled! in this absolutely exceptional time, it is still due to the recognition of all professionals in the justice sector, without exception, who, at times of great need, have cooperated, collaborated and ensured that citizens can continue to rely on our democratic rule of law. The evolution of the epidemiological framework allows the debate to be different today, as we have seen. We are therefore discussing how the judicial system should operate at a more peaceful stage, which obviously does not mean less concern or less care. The proposed law which the Government submits has two essential purposes: it raises the general suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines, on the assumption that we are in a position to ensure the normal functioning of the courts and other public services; and nevertheless establishes a set of rules and precautions, with a view to the safety of the proceedings and other procedural acts requiring the physical presence of the interveners. I would like to highlight three measures which are particularly important for the fulfilment of these purposes that I have announced: in a framework of restoration, this bill rests the rule of the present performance of the most important inquiries, namely those of discussion and trial and those involving the hearing of witnesses; it maintains a set of circumstances and procedural acts aimed at protecting the socioeconomic protection of those in situations of greater vulnerability, especially in cases of house of residence and leased property; it reinforces the procedural guarantees of the defendants in time of containment. in a time when we seek to cause the minimum damage to the functioning of justice and in which we all have to adapt to this context, we caution the normal functioning of the judicial system. In essence, this proposal for a law that the Government is not only guaranteeing this, as it reinforces the guarantee and the right of citizens to access and to the realization of justice at a time which is, however, still of restraint, prudence and adaptation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u80	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u81	I'm done now, Mr. President. On the other hand, with the proposed amendment tabled by the PS Parliamentary Group, it is opposed to the overlap of the suspension regime. We know that times are still difficult, but what is even more important is that the Portuguese know they can count on us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u82	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is, in fact, with some encouragement that we resume this debate, particularly because of what comes to bring to the professionals in the justice sector and, of course, also to the many citizens who have, in any way, given the suspension of the exercise of their rights. This resumption of some supposed normality is gradually made, of course, by the health issues we have already known. But, in this special legislative process, it is essential that a number of issues be raised. About this we couldn't be more discriminating about the PSD vision. In fact, the PSD, in its criticism of what it has already done, ignores the effects of these rules, and the lifting of the suspension will not correct the interpretation difficulties in the already in progress processes which do not exhaust themselves, whether or not it wants, Mr Carlos Peixoto. In fact, we are talking about a complaint from the associations of the sector itself, in the area of law, and we do not understand that the PSD and PS join together again to reject this clarification. But the NAP is actually bringing this amendment. This scheme, even in the case-law, has been called into question, in particular in the matter of suspension of deadlines. It is essential to ensure that there are no contradictory meanings of decisions that call into question the rights of citizens, and can give rise to a set of injustices, not only in the present but also in the future. It is precisely to prevent these potential injustices that the NAP has tabled an amendment to this proposal for a government law, which is intended to clarify by means of an interpretative rule that Article 6(5) ( d ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, in its current wording, should be interpreted as meaning that the deadlines for the imposition of remedies, for the filing of nullities or for the amendment or reform of the decision relating to final decisions and to nullities which may be made by the courts of first instance or by the higher courts before the entry into force of the law should be considered suspended. It is our understanding that citizens, in the exercise of their rights, cannot be subject to a cloak of uncertainty and judicial differences, so we call for the approval of this proposal, until this is the only legal inaccuracy these diplomas have said. In some respects, this proposal corrects some of these inaccuracies, particularly as regards the execution of the penhoras themselves and, in the case of tenants, the delivery of the tenants. That, to some extent, has been corrected, but there is still a need to correct this path, so let us leave a final note. The regime of suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines that we had to re-adopted with this second confinement was able to correct, on the one hand, some past errors, but we still have corrections to make in the context of the autonomous references to the contractual dispute, which in some way are redundant, which does not make sense in the light of the CPTA itself ( Code of Procedure in Administrative Courts), even more in urgent cases. There are other errors that have been corrected, in particular the apparent contradiction associated with the delivery of the house of residence. Some professionals in the sector have alerted us precisely to Article 8 ( e ). the Law No 1 -A / 2020, which I have already mentioned. In fact, it is redundant, because it would be covered by the figure of the suspension of delivery. What is important, at this time, is to make this reflection and to ensure that, at the level of this second general confinement and the reflection around this law, these errors are corrected, so that there is indeed no inaccuracy and legal uncertainty in this resumption of the judicial system. Otherwise, we will, of course, follow up on the Government's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u84	Mr José Manuel Pureza spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In March, the suspension of legal deadlines has been justified; we want to believe that there are now health conditions that lead to the end of this suspension. On the purposes of this bill and on the purposes of the generality of the proposed amendments, we will not be voting against in any way, on the contrary, we believe that they must be adopted. So there is nothing to say about that. For us, the problem is of another nature. It is that the fragility essential to the management of the pandemic in the functioning of the judicial system that existed when the suspension was determined, these problems, in our view, persist to a large extent. It is about them that I would like to speak, pointing out three fundamental points. Firstly, in order for this suspension to have no perverse effects, it is necessary to give full attention to the vaccination policy within the judicial system. From that point of view, whether it seems to us that it would have been very important, and it remains fundamental, a general orientation in order to give priority in terms of vaccination to those and those who are at the forefront of contact with people, with the other judicial actors. It is essential that this be the case. These are, in their overwhelming majority, judicial officials. They are precisely those who, either in the hearing rooms or in the DIAP ( Departments of Investigation and Criminal Action ), either in the judicial secretaries, ensure the interface with the generality of the people and therefore are in a situation of much greater risk in terms of infection and in terms of disease development. We see with great difficulty that this body of judicial actors is not given priority and that it is given priority to other actors. This priority vaccination is essential and judicial defination makes this very urgent. The second point concerns the issue of evictions, which was stressed by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. The arrangements laid down in Article 6. o-E is the one that provides that the discharge remains suspended when the tenant can be placed in a situation of fragility due to lack of his own housing. All right, nothing to point out about this. But the problem is that everyone and everyone, of course, have been aware of cases where what happens first is the clearance and then the very one, which is clear, has to go to the court to counter, to invoke their situation of fragility. Well, that doesn't make any sense, as you can imagine. It is imperative to reverse the order of this sequence. from there our amendment proposal: we propose that there be a presumption of fragility of who is the target of a clear order and that this presumption may be ill-adjusted only by a court sentence. This is crucial, especially at a time when, as you well know, very soon, EUR 3, EUR 7 billion in housing credit will no longer be protected by moratoriums. This will cause thousands of desperate situations, and this law cannot contribute to this situation. One last note, Mr. President, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, on the question of the prison system. There is a reference in this bill to the prison system, saying, well, that it is necessary to create conditions for the conferences of lawyers with the defendants and convicted persons to be present. Nothing to oppose, quite the contrary. The problem, Mr Secretary of State, is that it is essential that what is left in law is not, in practice, dead letter, because the prison system, as we know, is often too much the place where the letter of law is dead letter, as happens with the generality of the rules of the Code of the Enforcement of Penalties and Private Measures of Freedom. This cannot be and, in this particular case, we will do everything — and we hope that the government will also do its part, of course — so that the creation of conditions is effective for the relationship of prisoners with their families and with all this universe of people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u86	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u87	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members : Of course this bill makes all the sense. In other words, when the time limits for the pandemic have been suspended, it is clear that this situation would not be to forever, therefore, when there are conditions that allow the normal functioning of justice and the courts to be resumed, these measures should in fact be taken. so that this bill makes all the sense. Obviously, in the situation in which we are, where the pandemic remains, security measures must be taken. In other words, this is not a simple opening of the courts, and health and legal security measures must be taken. hence the complexity of this bill, because it is necessary to take the right legislative measures to prevent there from having jurisprudential and interpretative disparities which can then create problems in the future and which lead to an increase in litigation through this legislative initiative. It is true — and that no one is unaware — that the courts exist to settle disputes and that the disputes have opposing parts, of course there will be some who will be interested in certain interpretations of the law and others will be interested in other interpretations. Therefore, in order for legal certainty to exist, it is good that the legislation is clear and, if necessary, it is based on interpretative standards—but on that, I will say something more. For us, it is evidence—and this has already been said—that the inquiry of witnesses and the hearing of defendants in criminal proceedings cannot be by videoconferencing. This is evidence, and I believe there is an absolute consensus on it. There must be an immediate approach to the inquiry of a witness. In the inquiry of a witness in videoconferencing, the judge has no way of knowing whether this witness is receiving instructions from other people without the judge realizing it. I think this is unquestionable. Therefore, there are challenges that must be made at present and others may certainly not be done at present, but, in this case, formulations must be found that are safe. On this point, we are sensitive — and that is why we propose — to the warning that the Association of the Portuguese Judges' Trade Union has made for the fact that teleconference hearings, if this does not cause harm to the purposes of justice, are a formulation that can appear too vague and lead to discussions as to whether the purposes of the conduct of justice were being undermined or not. It seems to us that the wording that we propose in order to carry out this way does not call into question the judicial assessment and valorisation of the evidence to be produced; in these proceedings, it seems to us that it is indeed a more precise formulation and therefore we have accepted the suggestion of the Association of the Portuguese Judges'Trade Union which is contained in the proposals put forward by the CFP. There are two more questions I would like to mention. One of them concerns the interpretative standard which Mr. Carlos Peixoto criticized for the fact that the NAP had presented. in this respect, I will be supportive of the NAP, because the PCP also presented this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u88	Hey! It's the first time in six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u89	Mr. André Silva was upset. You can't praise the NAP, but the fact is that the NAP... [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] So, if Mr. André Silva is upset, I will tell you the truth: the PAN copied the proposal presented by the CFP, because he presented it later! Perhaps the honourable Member will feel less uncomfortable. In fact, this proposal has to do with something that makes sense. I mean, let's see, there's a suspension. We are talking about acts, decisions of the courts that are liable to appeal. If the decision has already been taken during the suspension of the judicial deadlines, it is unquestionable that the deadlines are suspended and therefore continue to run after the end of the suspension. But if that decision was taken one or two days before the suspension, the question arises whether the deadlines are suspended or not. However, since there have been different case-law decisions on this matter, it is justified, in our view, that there is an interpretative rule that, of course, these deadlines are also suspended.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I will say that we think it makes sense that the holiday is a little longer. It does not make sense that it is on the day of publication immediately, but what is proposed by the Socialist Party is on Monday following Easter. So it makes sense, from our point of view, that there are more days for judicial operators to be able to know and interpret the law properly. I would also say that we are also following up on the proposals from the Left Block on the issue of evictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u92	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u93	Mr President, on this subject, I would like to say that, indeed, and as has been said here, there is no state of democratic law which is prised without justice to function and without the courts to function. As has also been said by several benches, it is clear that this suspension was also inevitable. That's how we said it. Moreover, the only essential criticism or criticism we made when this matter was discussed was precisely the time gap between the government's announcement of the end of the judicial activity and the moment when the legal framework, at parliamentary headquarters, appeared for this same realization. Besides, it was indispensable, and that's not at stake. We therefore have no problem in saying that, taking advantage of it even to refute the idea that the Prime Minister has conveyed that we are always against what the Government is proposing. That's not true! When it makes sense, we're not against, logically. And this proposal makes sense. Secondly, several parliamentary groups raised the question of the conditions for this lifting and for the cessation of the suspension of deadlines. It's a real concern. It is a concern for the Government to respond to. Since, for example, vaccination for courts as a sovereign body is envisaged, we need to know, in fact, how much it goes, if it is sufficient, if it is not, if it covers the number of appropriate people. It is therefore a good question for the Government to clarify, as well as the conditions of work, hygiene, isolation and distance. These are all good issues to resolve, obviously competing with the government. The third point refers to the fact that this solution is still, to some extent, to pass the expression, not very rigorous, but that is the idea — a mixed solution, because it continues to foresee a number of acts which will be carried out at a distance and others which will be mandatoryly present. As has been said here, we agree — and many benches have already said — that there are certain acts that are and must be present. The question is that the Government does not have a sufficiently clear and definitive list of one and another situation. As we have seen in other cases, this can lead to some confusion, that is to say, there are acts in which it is not clear how or how diligence can be done. Knowing and defining exactly all those that required the presence of the parties in relation to all the proceedings would not be such an extensive nor impossible list that the Government could not do so. I believe that this could bring some clarity, not throwing an element of confusion on the very functioning of the judicial system and the courts in particular. Finally, it is a clarification that we have left and that we ask the government. With regard to the other issues raised here, I generally follow what was said by Mr Carlos Peixato. In fact, the question is even brought to Parliament by a particular lawyer. It would be all right to answer that question. That's not why we would be prevented from doing it. But it is really a strange solution that a law which is repealed has, in itself, an interpretative standard, understanding the problem of clarification that exists and the need for courts to do so. We will therefore not follow these proposals. We do not have a definitive position in relation to them, but we will not follow them, although basically agreeing with what is brought to us and, of course, recognizing, as all the benches have done, the need for this principle and this advance of defining justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u94	To close the debate, you have the floor by the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mário Belo Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have listened more carefully to the speeches made by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The debate takes place, and it is very gratifying to note that the proposal for a law that we have tabled in this House has been very broad in support. Some amendments have been tabled by the various parliamentary groups, which generally do not coincide with the essentials of the diploma, but we believe that not all can be accepted, as is the case with the deadlines for appeal, which are contrary to the regime approved in January in this House, in terms we do not intend to raise any doubts. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The suspension of procedural deadlines has a very negative impact on the functioning of justice. But I reiterate that, with the approval of this bill, we have created the legal framework necessary to normalize the situation and recover the delays that have been verified in the meantime, as I reaffirm that the conditions necessary to comply with the safety, hygiene and health rules laid down by the health authorities have been met. Confidence in the future is thus my last word. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u96	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on our agenda, and we are in a position to enter the fourth point, which is generally discussed in the drafts of Law No 684 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Change the framework rules of the Local Economy Support Programme ( PAEL ) and 693 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensures the amendment of the rules of non-compliance and termination of the Financial Adjustment Plan within the framework of the Local Economy Support Programme by amending Law No 43 / 2012 of 28 August 2012 together with Resolution Projects No 740 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — For the support of the Azorian tourist information guides which are in the scenario of true social and economic periclitancy by the action of COVID-19, 753 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — By taking measures to protect local trade and restoration, during the state of emergency and 990 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Reopening of hairdressers and barbers from next 22 February, establishing a set of measures to prevent infection with COVID-19. To open the debate, Mr Luís Moreira Testa, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that brings us here today, on the initiative of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, is concentrated on a very simple and circumstantial amendment to the diploma governing the PAEL, the Local Economy Support Programme. The desire expressed by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to this House is, too, very simple and very circumscribed: that the municipalities with this programme may, themselves, replace the revenue that consolidates participation in this programme, in particular the taxes that relate directly to families and are paid by them, in particular the IMI (municipal property tax), by other revenue, particularly those of a current or even extraordinary nature. It does not make sense that a municipality that finds alternative recipe formulas, including current, fixed, monthly recipes, continues to leverage the payment of loans made before this program in the pocket of families and Portuguese that are their municips. Therefore, it is with regard to this very precise and substantiated constituency that we propose a simple amendment, which we would like to welcome by the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u98	For an intervention by the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the legacys left to local power by the poor Memorandum of Understanding concluded with the troika was the Local Economy Support Program, a program that aimed to ensure regularization of the payment of debts of the municipalities over 90 days ago, ensuring that this regularization was made on the basis of a loan contract concluded with the State and that it was accompanied by a Financial Adjustment Plan, with a set of measures aimed at ensuring the increase of revenue and the reduction of the city's expenditure. In other words, more than correcting the imbalances of the present, it sought to ensure the future balance, and this alone is positive. However, almost nine years in force, and without prejudice to the approval of two laws which have ensured the change in the framework of the Local Economic Support Programme, it is necessary and useful for this Parliament to discuss an update and improvement of some of the specific aspects associated with the Financial Adjustment Plan implemented in the framework of the Local Economic Support Programme, so that the future balance is not made in the light of excessive and unjust sacrifices in the present, which, to a large extent, penalise the populations. Therefore, with this initiative, the NAP intends to ensure three amendments to the rules for non-compliance and termination of the Financial Adjustment Plan under the Local Economy Support Programme. First, we propose an amendment that removes a model that directly penalizes the municipalities with an unjust increase of IMI, when there is a failure to meet the objectives set out in the Financial Adjustment Plan. In our view, it is necessary, without compromising responsible budgetary management, to move away from this model of semi-automatic application of the maximum IMI rate and to ensure that a model satisfies the need for measures to increase revenue or reduce expenditure that allow the achievement of results equivalent to those that would be achieved with a maximum IMI rate and that these results do not take into account the reduction of expenditure in the areas of education, health, housing, social protection, environment and animal welfare, sensitive areas that, year after year, are underfinanced in municipalities. We therefore want budgetary responsibility with social sensitivity and believe that the proposal we put forward ensures it. Secondly, with the aim of ensuring greater balance and justice in the existing model, we propose that, in the value to be settled in the context of the state loan to the municipality, ensure that the value of possible exemptions from IMI to state buildings and to any of its services, institutions and bodies, as well as the value of the transfer of buildings from the municipality to the State. It is not fair that the State, with one hand, lends money to municipalities for the exchange of harsh conditions and sacrifices and, with another, has the money it saves in IMI exemptions and which should be prescribed by the municipality. That is what we want to do with this proposal. Thirdly, we propose clarification of the applicable legal framework in order to ensure that all effects of the Adjustment Plan cease at the time of the complete settlement using own or other funds of the existing loan granted by the State. This means that they will cease all and any pending sanctions procedures, something which, in the current legal framework, is unclear and has brought disproportionate penalties to municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will follow with our vote in favour the Socialist Party's proposal, which seems to us to be consistent with ours in certain aspects, and we are sure that today will be the beginning of a legislative process capable of reaching broad consensus for municipalities and populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u100	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u101	Mr President, it is clear that there is a problem in the Local Economy Support Programme, which is the excessive penalty that the taxpayer and his family continue to have in cases of non-compliance that should be restricted to the municipality. The increase in IMI to the maximum rate is a mismanagement from the point of view of the sanction and the increase of problems on the municipalities and families. For this reason, the plan and the proposal presented by the NAP, with only one problem, is that the NAP never says what is the other model of obtaining revenue or reduction of expenditure. That's the real problem. This is what we can say: « Well, we agree, we should not overburden families and municipalities with the maximum rate of IMI, in cases of non-compliance with the financial model that is foreseen since the 2014 Programme. It’s true. The PAN answers that, we all answer. But what's the alternative? No alternative is presented by the NAP in this matter, because it says only that it is a model for reducing expenditure or increasing revenue, and this, of course, is done in any balance other than that of municipal chambers. Therefore, the proposal that we will also enable has the right meaning, but it is beyond what could have gone, and it is urgent to find another model of financial framework, in case of non-compliance, for the municipalities. Mr President, in conclusion, I just wanted to say that there are three projects related to support for the local economy because the Government of the Socialist Party has left them behind, which deal with tourism operators in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which have been very penalized, with the measures to protect small trade and restoration and with the devastated and devastated sector of hairdressers, barbershops and similar, which has been so mistreated by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u102	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has talked a lot about economic support, but the truth is that when they arrive, these support is focused exclusively on the short term, just on keeping companies alive, as if they could leave this pandemic as strong as they were before it. And when we talk beyond the short term, the conversation is about bazaars and resilience and it becomes obvious that companies, such as they will maintain and generate jobs, are the last priority of this government. The figures do not mislead: of the EUR 13 940 million of European grants only EUR 3350 million is addressed to companies, i.e. 24 % of the total amount of support will be used to directly support companies when they are responsible for 85 % of employment in Portugal. Therefore, the government plan is that about three quarters of the money goes to state projects, a strategy opposed to what is necessary and that we, in the Liberal Initiative, have been defending for months. The government says that these public projects will result in contracts for companies, but it does not say how much, as it does not say how many taxes, direct and indirect, and how many fees it will charge above all this investment. He only talks about what's right for him and does not quantify anything. That is why there is nothing left to the PS than to repeat the revenue that has transformed Portugal into the economic turtle in Europe: public investment without return and without scrutiny, suffocating tax burden and an economy always waiting for the state and its friends.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u104	Mr José Maria Cardoso has the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the subject that is under discussion, I begin by saying what we have always said: the contradiction of the Left Block to the Local Economy Support Programme is structural and it has to do with the foundations that support it, with the constraints resulting from its application and with the intrusion into the exercise of local power. The PAEL, created by Law No. 43 / 2012, during the full period of submission to the Troika dictates, copied the commitment obligations in a national troika model, requiring municipalities a set of conditionalisms that functioned as financial garrots and as an antidemocratic interference in municipal policy options. A programme was created, the PAEL I, aimed at authorities in a situation of structural imbalance and with an application for financial rebalancing under municipal adjustment programmes, which have underlying penal principles, as if punishing offenders. The conditionalities which have been established in all these programmes, consigned to the authorities, have turned to the detriment of the populations and even to double detriment, insofar as they have been obliged to comply with the requirements, in particular to pay taxes and municipal rates, at the maximum limit, and, on the other hand, to be unable to use infrastructures, in some basic cases, because of the impossibility of investment in the authorities. Therefore, our disagreement is fundamental and not punctual. However, I would like to make objective comments to the one under discussion. With regard to the Socialist Party's draft law, the proposed amendments are intended to simplify the financial adjustment regime by allowing the application of the maximum rate of the IMI, but the same cautions also for what needs to be done when it speaks of "appropriating alternative measures with the same impact that are realized in effective revenue". It is important to know what measures they are thinking about and what is available as a form of compensation. They also propose something that seems significant to us when in Article 6 ( 8 ). they shall introduce an amendment stating that all the obligations contained in the plan « cease, with all its effects, at the time of complete settlement ». In fact, this allows for the non-application of sanctions in the context of the illegalities committed and provided for in Article 11. if the plan is liquidated, a claim has long been made by the authorities regarding obligations which make no sense to maintain and which are a kind of perennial sanctions. As for the draft law submitted by the NAP, which also intends to simplify the Financial Adjustment Plan, in the same way we generally agree with it and express the same substantive consideration. Article 6 ( 6 ). the, which is very similar to paragraph 4 of the PS proposal — I do not know until there is any delay in the name of that same point —, does not cease to provide for the approval of the application of the maximum rate of IMI to be expected to apply the measures to be approved, saying 'increasing the effective revenue with an impact equivalent to what GDP (gross domestic product) would be with the application of the maximum rate of IMI'. He then says that the actual revenue cannot be obtained by reducing the expenditure associated with different areas. The following question is asked: if it is not because of the reduction of the areas mentioned - do we not mean that it should be - these are the most current large areas of investment, what effective revenue measures can be implemented? Even considering that this is not the way to solve the problem created by the implementation of the programme and continuing to say that the issue is structural and should be reviewed all its application, in particular by revoking the programme itself, we are voting in favour of these projects. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u106	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party is bringing us today to debate proposed amendments to the framework rules of the Local Economy Support Programme. In anticipation, the Greens begin by saying that they are following these same proposals globally. In fact, within the framework of the package of measures taken under the Memorandum of Understanding established with the troika, the legal regime of the Local Economy Support Programme was created by Law No 43 / 2012. The purpose of this programme is to regularise the payment of debts of municipalities to suppliers over 90 days ago. Now, all these years—we are talking about almost a decade— Law No. 43/2012 actually demands some adjustments, until today's local financial reality is substantially different from the reality that has motivated its creation and therefore we feel that the proposed amendments presented by the PS are appropriate. In fact, municipalities that have acceded to the programme and have complied with their respective requirements for financial balance cannot be penalised and continue to be subject to the application of these measures after they have fully met the objectives of the programme. In our view, there is no valid justification for this to continue. Therefore, it seems sensible to us that, as the Socialist Party proposes, and in this matter also the NAP, some aspects of the plan and its obligations are clarified, in particular with regard to the cessation of both the plan and its obligations, at the time of the full winding-up of the loan granted by the State, ensuring that the termination of the plan removes any penalties arising from it and also causing the termination of any pending but related sanction procedures. The same applies to cases of non-compliance with the objectives set for the financial rebalancing. The PS proposes that, in these cases, the respective municipalities move, on the basis of a resolution of the loan contract, to establish or apply the maximum rate of the IMI in force at the date of non-compliance, unless they adopt alternative measures with the same impact from the point of view of the actual revenue, which we believe is correct. As for the other legislative initiative which is also under discussion, which is a draft law of the NAP, and recognizing even some positive elements on this matter, it seems to us that, in case of non-compliance, it should not be the Assembly of the Republic, even with respect to the autonomy of the democratic local power, to determine which areas where municipalities may or may not seek solutions for effective revenue. We therefore consider that the Socialist Party's proposal is more sensible, but yet the Greens will not vote against the NAP bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u108	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today, at the initiative of the Socialist Party, the third amendment to the Local Economy Support Programme, a programme created for the resolution of urgent, difficult and very demanding problems, but which allowed municipalities to regularize, together with their suppliers, debts over 90 days ago. It also allowed to inject liquidity into the local economy, especially in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, thus contributing to the maintenance of jobs. It has allowed many municipalities to solve problems of access to bank credit. PAEL met what was expected of it and between 2012 and 2015 visited 103 municipalities. It says the PS that, after more than eight years of its approval, the financial reality of the authorities is different from the one that was at the basis of the approval of the program. In fact, the financial reality is fortunately different from the one we found in 2011. For this reason, much contributed to the adoption in the latest PSD Government / CDS-PP of the Local Economic Support Programme we are talking about, of the Municipal Support Fund, of the Late Commitments and Payments Act, of the new Local Finance Act and, above all, contributed to the very significant and worthy efforts of the autarchs in order to ensure the budgetary balance of the financial management of their autarchies. It changed the financial reality of the authorities and changed their challenges as well. From one year to this part, the autarchs were called for the first line of fighting the pandemic and, for our happiness, they have all offered answers that mitigate the adversity experienced at the most varied levels, often acting beyond their responsibilities. The government and central administration have more than ever the obligation to help the authorities. Now, if this was also the objective of this initiative of the Socialist Party, we would follow-CL, but it is not. The real objective of this initiative is not the flexibility of the PAEL rules, which, as I said, would be accompanied by the Social Democratic Party — remember, moreover, that no Authority has resorted to it since 2015; the real objective of this initiative is to amnesty all who have or may come to have criminal proceedings for serious violation of the PAEL rules. The goal is not to help fulfilling autarchs, but to amnesty the prevariators.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u110	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u111	Mr. Luís Testa, if the PS wanted to help the authorities it would have much to demand from the government. See, it is neither understandable nor acceptable for the Government to take the dividends to which municipalities are entitled because of their participation in the capital of the Municipal Support Fund. These dividends are money from the authorities, they are money from the municipalities, they are not money from the central administration, nor from the government. It is neither understandable nor acceptable that the Agency for Development and Cohesion, under the supervision of the Ministry of Planning, will deliberately delay requests for access to the European Investment Bank's funding lines within the framework of the Portugal 2020 projects. It is not comprehensible or acceptable that, after so many announcements and so many commitments, municipalities continue without being compensated for expenses in the fight against pandemic, having many of these expenses were made at the request of the government and in its replacement, which is an example of the acquisition of computers, tablets and connectivity equipment for schools and students. And I could go on! The authorities are being completely forgotten by this government. Mr. Luís Testa, it is not us who say so, is the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u112	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These diplomas we are discussing today, especially the PS and PAN bills, have to do with the PAEL, introducing some amendments to it. First of all, I'd like to remember what the PAELs were. The starting point of these support programmes for local authorities, which then led to the introduction of other financial rules, seems to have been a way of some angry accountant punishing the authorities. It is good to see that the starting point was not only very dangerous financial situations, but above all the existence of late payments and debts to suppliers over 90 days ago. So, when we come here to talk about sacrifices and sacrifices of families, I think it is appropriate to start by talking about the sacrifices of those suppliers who had been in debt for more than 90 days, the so-called victims of the state calotes and the calotes of the municipalities. Those are the real victims! Often, economic support measures are also discussed here, but if the State, the municipalities and the parish paid in time and hours and did not allow late payments to be accumulated there would also be a measure of justice and support for the economy. It should be the rule, but as it is not, this is also an economic support measure. Putting things this way, it is also worth remembering that there have been no municipalities joining this PAEL. I would say that what is on the table is subdivided into two points. The first is the possibility of replacing the obligation to have the IMI at the maximum rate in another form. I would be more relaxed if they were explicit in other possible ways, because if we are, for example, talking about increasing water, I don't know what will be the greatest sacrifice for families. In any case, on our part, we would like to see this subject discussed in the specialty and we have an openness so that even this possibility of municipalities can find ways that involve less sacrifice. The second point has to do with the amnesty of the sanctioning processes. I'd like to know, in particular, what we're talking about. What are these processes? Who's going to be amnesty? Why do you act? Without this it becomes very difficult to make these projects viable. I therefore suggested that these projects could be brought down to the Commission without a vote to enable a more constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u114	That's what it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u115	It is therefore quite difficult to be sure about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u116	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed two initiatives to amend the Local Economy Support Programme. The pretext of regularizing the payment of debts of the municipalities over 90 days ago, the PSD/CDS-PP government imposed on the authorities a true pact of aggression, the Local Economy Support Program, with extremely penalizing consequences for the territories and populations. It imposes intolerable, disproportionate and deeply negative conditions for populations, such as the increase in taxes, rates and tariffs; the increase in prices associated with water supply services, sanitation and waste, rejecting the principle of the right to water and the provision of quality public services; the conditioning of municipal activity and support for the popular associative movement—all this at the expense of local power autonomy. They also add to the difficulties that exist in that period, which are due to the loss of income, the increase in prices, the destruction of jobs and the accelerated growth of inequalities and poverty. It is actually good to remember what happened at the time. This Local Economy Support Programme emerges in a framework in which local authorities were responsible for high public debt, when their debt was little more than 3% of the total value and when the economic and financial difficulties that local authorities were facing resulted from the successive failure to comply with the Local Finance Law by governments, which had cut the authorities to date about EUR 1000 million. Ironically, this amount corresponded exactly to what the Government intended to lend to local authorities, making it clear that it was not any aid, but clearly a mechanism for introducing the financial management of municipalities. In addition to the violation of the financial autonomy of local authorities, the real objective of the PAEL was to limit and condition the action of the authorities, attack public services and degrade the living conditions of the populations. That is why we are opposed to this programme. Today, the situation of the authorities is quite different, as a result of the new phase of national political life, but the impacts and consequences of this programme are still there, continuing to penalise the authorities and the populations. We believe that the municipalities that have fulfilled and meet the objectives set and that until they have completed the payment of the loan granted cannot now continue to be penalized. in this sense, we follow the proposal submitted by the Socialist Party that allows the realization of alternative measures for obtaining revenue, exempting the application of the maximum rate of the IMI, such as the proposal that all the obligations contained in the plan cease with the total settlement of the debt. With regard to the NAP proposal, we believe that there is an intrusion in the autonomy of local power when it proposes the specific areas in which there can be no reduction of expenditure. This is not a decision of the sphere of the Assembly of the Republic, but of the municipal sphere. The question here is not whether or not the areas identified should have a reduction in expenditure. The question is that, within the framework of the financial autonomy of local authorities, they enjoy autonomy in the management of their financial resources, in particular in the preparation of budgets and in the management of revenue and expenditure. It is the authorities that define their options and it is not the Assembly of the Republic that defines where they can and cannot increase or reduce revenue or expenditure. We did not agree with the creation of the PAEL and we understand that its consequences cannot last and continue to harm the authorities and populations. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u118	To close the debate, you have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group... [[Pause.]] Before the end of the debate there is still an intervention by Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u119	Mr President, I had asked for the floor to call on the Bureau, because it was my conviction that there would be a discussion period after the presentations by both the PS and the NAP. In fact, we had a presentation, we had no discussion. I know that Mr President will say that this is in the law of the political forces, I would say yes, but there is a bit of an unbalanced debate and it is surprising how it takes place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u120	Mr President, it is a tradition that the party that makes the agenda is the last to speak and, as a PS Member is included, assumed that it was the end of the debate. If you want to talk, please. In fact, the honourable Member was, in fact, using the floor and still having time. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u121	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group must be sure whether the PS Member will close the debate or not. If the debate is to close, then very well, with certainty, the Socialist Party will do this closure and I will use the word before that closure, as it is, in fact, of tradition and praxia. But it was supposed that the Socialist Party would make another intervention in addition to the presentation and closure. What is normal is that there is presentation, discussion and closure. The Socialist Party, finally, did not want to enter the debate in the second part, and that causes, let us say, a certain imbalance. If I may, Mr President, I will make my speech just to note the following: I would like to reinforce that, on the side of the PSD Parliamentary Group, if the amendment to the PAEL were merely the flexibility that the Socialist Party is talking about, we would follow. But that is not the case, because two thirds of the proposal is an amnesty. Mr Luís Testa, the fact is that the country has the legal regime of administrative protection. All inspection actions shall be carried out under this scheme, shall be subject to the evaluation of reports and to the contradiction and shall be referred to the member of the responsible Government, who shall, or shall not, send these inspection actions to the Public Prosecutor's Office which, in turn, shall assess the facts under current law, excluding vicessivity, when it is to be excluded, of course, with all its mitigating and aggravating. We trust the Public Prosecutor's Office, we trust justice. by the way, the Socialist Party and the honourable Member, no. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u122	Mr President, I insist that you were not registered and that you were registered at the last minute. To close the debate, Mr Luís Moreira Testa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In my initial speech, I was in a position to discuss in this House the real foundations of the PAEL — Local Economy Support Programme. Well, from the start, the epithet is so pompous that it would play anyone who looks at the diploma. Ludibria to the table, which sends it to 6. the Commission ; it shall play out the parliamentary groups or the sole Members of the parties, who shall draw up proposals for this discussion on their ride. Indeed, this EDP does not treat nor has it ever tried to support the local economy. This programme had two objectives and only two: to place garrots to local authorities, limiting their autonomy in spending and revenue that would have to have in the years following their approval and in the subsequent accession to this programme. Besides — it's scary! — if we were to study more thoroughly what type of expenditure was chosen to deal with these programmes, none of them were of local economy. This program was mostly used to deal with the debts incurred by municipalities to public companies, especially those in the water sector, as Mrs Cecilia Meireles warned here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u124	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u125	Amnesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u126	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we want is that municipalities have the ability to choose the type of revenue to meet their commitments. This is called full respect for the autonomy of the municipalities, to which we have been faithful since 25 April 1974.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u127	It's just you! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u128	And amnesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u129	If there are conditions for electing alternative ways to deal with these commitments, this municipal decision shall be respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u131	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, your speech is not the only one who knows the power of the city. It is not the one who knows the collegial nature of local authorities' bodies. And when the honourable Member asks this House who wants to amnesty, I ask you who the honourable Member wants to punish:...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u132	You must conclude, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u133	...the autoarchs, the camera presidents, who found alternative ways to meet their commitments, not yet punishing the monks? These are the people you want to punish! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u134	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this agenda item. We will enter point 5, the general discussion of Law Projects No. 676 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Exceptional and temporary regime, in the context of the epidemiological situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and by the disease COVID-19, marking the general elections for local authorities to be held in 2021 and 696 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensures the appropriate conditions for the elections of local authorities of 2021 in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, by making the first amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2020 of 11 November, and the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, together with the Draft Resolution No 762 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — By updating the electoral books. To open the debate, Mr José Silvano, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of January, the current President of the City Council of Porto defended the postponement of the presidential elections because of the situation of the pandemic caused by COVID-19, stressing that it is, and I quote, « an objective, unanimously recognized by all political forces, to combat abstention and to ensure and encourage the full participation of all voters ». Strangely, on 14 March, he had already stated that he did not agree with the postponement of the elections. Francisco Assisi also defended the postponement of the presidential elections in view of the pandemic situation, calling for, and I quote: « Aside from the elections so that we do not suspend democracy». But if postponement was important in the presidential elections, it is essential in the local elections. If in the presidential elections we have the social communication to accompany all the candidates, the step they take, we all know that this does not happen in the elections, in which almost all candidates have to carry out a campaign of proximity, away from the media and in the contact door-to-door. There are tens of thousands of candidates for the three local bodies, who will have to move in campaign actions with the local population and who will not be able to do so freely, in a context of fear and fear on the part of the population. However, it is expected that group immunity will only be achieved at the end of the summer, as Mr Prime Minister has repeatedly said, on the basis of the evaluation of the specialists and those responsible for the vaccination plan. It was not the PSD that claimed that group immunity would only be achieved by the end of summer, it was the government that established this timetable. The Minister of Internal Administration also acknowledged recently that these elections could be held on two weekends due to the pandemic, i.e., he acknowledged the problem. Therefore, it would be advised that the date of the forthcoming elections could be postponed, exceptionally, for 60 days. As it is known, under the law, the elections must take place between September 22 and October 14 2021. What we propose is that, exceptionally, and by way of derogation from the law, this year, by virtue of the pandemic, these elections may take place between 22 November and 14 December 2021. This would allow the government to mark them by decree on one of three possible Sundays: November 28, 5 or December 12, 2021. In fact, since 1976 and until 2001, the elections were always held in December. Thus, there is no argument that these elections should not be held in winter, when they were so for 25 years, with even greater electoral participation than at present. Moreover, the reason for our proposal for postponement is based on the absolutely extraordinary and exceptional situation that we are currently living, being preferable to hold these elections in winter, with the certainty that the pre-campaign and the campaign will run with the protection conferred by group immunity, than at the beginning of autumn, when we know that only at the end of summer is that this immunity will be achieved. when we propose the postponement of the elections for December - it is sought that these take place with the maximum serenity and the minimum possible constraints, at a time when the group immunity will already be acquired and consolidated, which will represent a greater guarantee of security as well as the molds in which they will be carried out, so as to safeguard as far as possible the necessary proximity between candidates and voters, as characteristic of these elections. This is called to strengthen the democratic regime, to increase electoral participation and, consequently, to reduce abstention. It also does not take the argument that the PSD intends to postpone these elections to find a solution to their internal difficulties, as reported by the Socialist Party, when we already have three quarters of the candidates announced and we hope, at the end of March, to have their total. Maybe the PS wasn't waiting for this PSD dynamics. The Socialist Party is now coming to say, by the voice of the same protagonist, that this delay does not serve democratic interests. So, defending democracy and the democratic regime is not creating conditions for increasing electoral participation? Is it not creating conditions to bring candidates and voters closer together, giving the opportunity to debate ideas and the campaign of proximity? We do not understand this argument, or rather, the Socialist Party believes that the democratic interest is better served if the campaign is carried out with constraints and limitations, in short, if it is a weak campaign. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the real argument is purely partisan and has nothing to do with the reality of democracy. The PS has more chamber presidencies and does not want the opposition to campaign, so that it can more easily maintain them. It must assume, the Socialist Party, that it does not want the postponement of the elections for purely partisan and political reasons. This is the real reason why we should not want the postponement of the forthcoming elections. The PSD states otherwise: the postponement of elections serves the people, allows us to go on the street to campaign in total proximity to the citizens and, by proposing this postponement for 60 days, our proposal allows more democracy and ensures a debate of ideas and proximity to the people. And, at the end of each electoral act, as seen in the legislative, presidential and European legislation, the greatest criticism of democracy is the lack of electoral participation and the consequent increase in abstention, the PSD, in due course, presents this proposal for postponement of the actual elections for 60 days. In the final vote, each party shall assume its responsibilities. We'll take ours. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u136	For the presentation of Bill No. 696 / XIV / 2. a, from the initiative of the NAP, has the floor Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Increase in abstention arrow, endless queues of waiting for the advance vote in mobility, impossibility of voting by persons who were in prophylactic isolation due to COVID-19, difficulties of registration in the new voting mechanism anticipated by the elderly in homes, imposition of the face-to-face vote on voters included in risk groups, persons with disabilities or conditional mobility prevented from voting and — unusual of the unusual! — a candidate who was not a candidate in the ballot. This was the extensive list of problems that occurred in the presidential elections last January, among many others, such as those concerning Portuguese living abroad. In the face of these problems and with the actual elections at the door, we can take one of three ways. The first is to pretend that everything went well and that these problems did not exist. The second is to admit the problems, but to make faith, a lot of faith, that the goals of the vaccination plan will be met and that, therefore, these problems will not be repeated in the autarchics. The third is, given the uncertainty about what the country's epidemiological situation might be in September or October, to seek to be proactive, act in anticipation and create the mechanisms necessary to prevent the recurrence of many problems in January. Of course, the NAP opts for the third path and submits a proposal, which, by seeking to avoid recent mistakes, aims to ensure the necessary conditions for the next autonomous elections, so that no citizen or citizen will again be deprived of their right to vote because of the health crisis. This debate is therefore needed, because vaccination is unfortunately not synonymous with non-transmissibility of the CVID-19. And the serious debate, over time and with amendments that are not made on the knee, must be done now, while we still have time to do so. With this initiative, the NAP intends to answer essentially three questions. First of all, we want to ensure in the law an exceptional rule that allows the government, if so understood and in view of the existing epidemiological situation, to mark the next elections for two days, rather than just one, as is provided for in the current electoral law. We want to ensure the expansion of the electoral process to ensure fluidity and security and therefore we suggest a solution adopted in the Russian constitutional referendum and, successfully, in the regional elections in Italy. Secondly, realizing that the nature of an authentic election prevents the adoption of an early vote in ultra-wide mobility such as what we have in other elections, we propose that it be extended to all voters who wish to make use of this right, and not only, as before, those who have a professional impediment. We are therefore faced with a change consistent with other amendments in recent years, extending the vote in advance. Thirdly and last, we propose a set of amendments to the advance voting right provided for in the exceptional and temporary regime applicable to the context of COVID-19. We want to make it clear that this scheme applies to voters resident in residential structures for the elderly. We want voters to be able to vote under this scheme in risk groups and voters with disabilities or disabilities. We want all those who, due to COVID-19, are in compulsory confinement, to be able to register for votes until the second day before the election and not be excluded as happened in the last elections. We also want the registration of this mechanism to be done by telephone, so that people without access to information technology can have a simple, non-bureaucratic way of registration. For all this to be possible, we propose that voting bulletins no longer have to be put in quarantine, something which, given the scientific knowledge that we have on the risk of transmission through surfaces, makes no sense and is even a true « sanitary theatre».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u138	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u139	Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we want to give the electorate citizens more security and confidence in the electoral process so that there can be more participation and greater democratic level. These solutions are a starting point and not a point of arrival, being this House more than in time of, including in an extended way, making this debate and contributing to a participatory and safe electoral act.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u140	To present the Resolution Project No 762 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Making an election campaign in the middle of the pandemic is indeed a disaster. Those who witnessed it and lived closely, knowing the difficulty of meeting with the populations and knowing the difficulty of campaigning in proximity, easily realize that repeating a pandemic campaign scenario is not desirable. Neither is it effective, nor is it understandable that, with the solutions we have at our disposal today, we can insist on the same mistake. If the presidentials could not be changed by matters of a constitutional nature, the same is not the case with the actual elections, which, in addition to the necessary and urgent updating of the electoral books, raise a very serious problem, that of assembly and assembly. But who do you think we're going to have group immunity in July or August or who thinks we're going to have group immunity in September? We have the words of Ricardo Mexia, of the National Association of Public Health Physicians, to remind us of the following: « Do not think that it will be linear, nor current, that we can achieve group immunity in the coming months». So we have to deal with the scenario of not disillusioning the Portuguese, which is that, imagining that, in September, the situation of the pandemic is uncontrolled, knowing what we can do. We have two proposals on the table. One of them refers to up to 60 days late. But no one guarantees us in December that we will be better than in September. More, being a respiratory disease, the most likely is that in December we are worse than we would be in September. We can therefore have no other solution than that of holding the elections in two days, on the same weekend, and in September, which will probably be much more correct than in December. Thus, we can avoid meetings, allow early voting mechanisms and prevent too many people from joining, with the risk inherent to public health. Mr. President and Mr. Members, I will conclude, saying only the following: the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, and well, he challenges that today's proposed amendments, not only in the law as in the project we present, are extemporaneous due to a short period of time in relation to the electoral act. But we are dealing with this, like all countries, for the first time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u142	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u143	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why the argument, which was valid in other years, that we should not make any amendments to the law, nor any corrections, in an election year, does not apply here. We have to do it and we must do it because the Portuguese deserve this judgment of proximity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u144	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a lot of difficulty in understanding how we can defend the postponement of an electoral act, important for democracy, seven months in advance. What data does the PSD have to support this claim? Is there any conviction that pandemic control will fail? And, in that case, how long would the elections be postponed? Does the PSD want to stay in emergency forever and not return to a normal state? We couldn't understand. What makes sense for us is to prepare a decision from now on so that the issue is not dealt with again, as in the last presidential elections, on the knee. This means setting a deadline for making the decision, in accordance with the necessary advance, so that all those involved can be organized, as well as agree from now on a set of epidemiological criteria supporting the decision. We also defend the urgent debate on the creation of conditions of security and confidence in the electoral system, so that the advance vote in mobility is generalized and the possibility of the electoral act to take place in two days. With this, the health security of those who will vote is increased, while more Portuguese participation is promoted in the elections. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative will vote in favour of the NAP proposal and confirms that it has introduced its own proposal for a review of the laws governing the various elections a few minutes ago. It is time to modernize, harmonise and make it a factor in promoting democracy. And it doesn't take a day of reflection to agree with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u146	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Bill No. 676 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) proposes, exceptionally and temporarily, by virtue of the pandemic, the postponement of the elections for a period of 60 days. The Left Block is sensitive to some of the arguments invoked in the explanatory statement. In fact, an electoral campaign for the local authorities has a very own dynamic and extends to very diverse situations, many of which with the need for permanent contact with populations. Take election campaigns as an example for the vast majority of the parish. It is not lawful to say that there has also been a campaign for the presidents. In fact, the electoral universe, the mode of operation and the information coverage have nothing to do with it. It is already more acceptable to compare with the regional elections in the Azores, where the campaign was closer to the populations. However, our disagreement is with the objectives of the proposal, with regard to the timing and on the basis of the foundation. As a reason for postponement a hypothetical date for the extent of Community immunisation, when it is so unpredictable to know when that can happen — at the moment the uncertainty of the process only increases the doubts of any goal — has no solid basis justifying this same date change. That is why it is not a valid argument. Then, to be delaying the elections for a period of 60 days, knowing that the elections will be marked between September 22 and October 14 is to indicate as a hypothetical date in December. It is precisely in the winter that the problem can get worse, as it is customary to happen in this type of infection. Therefore, the risk we face with the proposed change date, in no way solves what is at stake and only increases the entropy of the usual institutionalized electoral schedule in the country. It is notorious and it is clear that the real objective of the PSD does not have to do with the date of the elections, but with the political time of the budgetary process. We will therefore vote against this proposal. The Bill No. 696 / XIV / 2. a (PAN), largely extends the possibilities of creating conditions for the use of early voting, with which we generally agree. We already have a history of previous elections, particularly in the presidential elections, which allows us to consider that there is a path to success. The expectation is that it is a voting model that can and should be continued. We don't mean that there were no problems. Obviously, the process needs to be rectified and improved at many levels. In addition, we informed the Minister of Internal Administration at the presidential elections by sending communications on 9 January of the need to allow the exercise of the right of suffrage to the users of the homes of the elderly and, on 19 January, we reported complaints of various impediments to the exercise of that same right. We do not realize the withdrawal of the advance vote for these elections, expressed by Minister Eduardo Cabrita. The logistical problem raised by the local elections, which requires various ballot papers, can be solved with preparation and with time. We're in time to do it, there's political will! The expectations created by hundreds of thousands of people, who have already used the advance vote in mobility in previous elections, will be dashed, if not given this possibility. We hope that, in this case — and for good reason now — the Prime Minister will reverse the position of his Minister. What we want to say is this: it is important to extend the practice of early voting and to create conditions for such an alternative, as is important the increase of days for voting, using, for example, Saturday — called a "day of reflection" — before Sunday of the elections. So we would have an election weekend. Speaking specifically of the NAP proposals, we generally agree with them, admitting that in some cases we have criticisms, namely: voters who are diagnosed with VOCID after the end of the second day before the suffrage will not be able to vote and voters who turn to fit under points (b), (c), (d), (e) and (e) after the end of the seventh day before the suffrage will not be able to vote either. So we continue to have some criticisms about this issue. However, we consider this bill generally valid and will therefore vote in favour. As for Project Resolution No 762 / XIV / 2. a (CH), by updating the electoral books, promotes the updating of the electoral books, for the obvious reasons of their need and urgency. That's why we're in favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u148	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u149	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to this fact, I would like to recall that, on a proposal from the Left Block, the automatic census of migrants was updated, which caused the number of censuses to pass from a universe of 228 000 to 1 million and 476 000 voters. In addition to this exponential increase in foreign censuses, this measure updated the national books with the withdrawal of these migrants. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u150	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has scheduled this debate for today, with the aim of proposing to this House that, in view of the pandemic we live, an exceptional and temporary regime concerning the marking of general elections for local authorities bodies to be held in 2021, therefore this year. But we have some difficulties in understanding the rush of the PSD to expect, above all this distance, to postpone the next elections. In fact, we do not understand whether this pressure of the PSD is motivated by concerns about how the electoral act will take place or whether the motivation of this proposal is based on fully side-by-side aspects of the electoral process itself and how this electoral act may take place. In any event, it seems to us, above all, too early to think or consider delaying the elections without having the notion of the evolution of the pandemic and even of the vaccination process and without, at least, data allowing us to conclude that, in November or December, the situation will be better in terms of pandemic than it will be in September or October. And, therefore, what we think is that any decision on this matter, to be taken, and if it has to be taken, should be made when and if the data allow us to conclude that it is absolutely imperative to postpone the date of the elections. As the PSD points out in the explanatory statement of its proposal, the last presidential elections showed the enormous challenge that it presented to carry out an electoral act in peak pandemic, which necessarily implied changing the traditional patterns in which this type of election is usually carried out. And until we agreed to this reading of the PSD, it was indeed a challenge, but it was a challenge that we managed to win. Therefore, if it is true that the presidential elections represented a challenge, it is also true that this electoral act, which, remember, took place at the peak of the pandemic, proved, for those who had doubts, that it is possible to hold elections in security, guaranteeing the essential in an electoral act: free, individual, face-to-face and secret vote. It is not, in fact, a great deal of effort to realize that elections for the Presidency of the Republic have proved unequivocally, that it is possible to carry out electoral acts, ensuring all safety and health protection measures. It is true that the elections are very peculiar elections with a very own dynamic, especially at the level of the electoral campaign. Even so, the Greens believe that, in view of the available data, we do not have any evidence today that we consider it necessary to postpone the elections and, above all, we do not have any data that would allow us to assume that, in November or December, the health situation is better than in September or October. The Greens will therefore vote against this PSD proposal, which aims to postpone the forthcoming elections for two months.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u152	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor now. Sir, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This discussion is, in fact, motivated by an initiative of the PSD with the aim of delaying the elections. I'd say I can understand the concern. This is of course a good concern, but I do not know if it will necessarily be a good idea, which is not the same thing as being a good concern. And this, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for a very simple reason, it is that the presidential elections did not run in such a worrying or complex way as to justify this amendment now. But above all, I do not understand how the PSD can support its claim that only delay solves this problem. I mean, what is the PSD based on? This is because a statement of these must be based on some criterion, I would say, scientific, epidemiological or any other criterion. I do not have any epidemiological crystal ball, not available, I assume, no one, in this Chamber, a group of private epidemiologists who can give us a study that ensures that the situation in December is better than in October, being until the end of vaccination at the end of summer and therefore clearly before the elections... Looking at the previous year, for the past year, when was the situation complicated? It was precisely in December and then, especially in January, not in September or October. So let us say that the knowledge of experiences made indicates precisely the opposite, so within the limits, it is early for us to make such a decision. It also seems to me that, from party to party, and I have nothing to do with it, an accusation is that some people want to postpone, because they benefit from it, or that others do not want to postpone and want to leave everything as it would be normal, because they also have any interest, it would not even be very curial. With regard to the other proposals and those of the NAP, I am not against the fact that the election can be followed in two days, on the contrary, I think that we have to make an assessment, as well as an assessment of the various amendments they want to make. In particular, on the increase in the vote we must see whether or not there are conditions for this. In this respect, the Minister of Internal Administration said it would be very difficult, or almost impossible, to guarantee the advance vote in this quantity. We have to assess whether it is possible or not. But there is one thing that the Government cannot escape that is the statement by the Minister of Internal Administration that it was to do on two weekends, which is absolutely extraordinary because it comes from nothing. There is no proposal from the Government on this matter, there is no proposal from the Socialist Party on this matter, no one has proposed it, it is of those things.... Look, it's like the SEF, the Minister of Administration says something like that... [[Laughter of PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] The Minister of Internal Administration said so - and Mr.António Filipe, shortly afterwards, Mr. Prime Minister came to say that the idea had no meaning - which gives us a clear idea of Mr. Prime Minister's consideration for his Minister of Internal Administration who has ideas that make no sense and more...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u154	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u155	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, referring to Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, said that the idea was dangerous. The way the Government deals with this matter is absolutely extraordinary! Mr President, even to conclude: the intention, yes, the solution, no, or at least we have many doubts, result: abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u156	Mr António Filipe of the CFP, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to follow the proposals presented here for different reasons, because they are also very different. Starting with the PSD proposal, we do not consider it to be an attack on democracy, on the contrary. We do not make any negative judgment on this proposal, but we do not follow it because we do not see that need. It is true that, for many years, we held autarchical elections in December and from there came no harm to the world or to democracy. But for some reason they moved on to October: it was found that there was indeed a desirability regarding the takeover of local bodies and the preparation of budgets for the following year. Well, there had to be a very heavy reason to turn us back now and say that, although exceptionally, this time, it will not be in October it will be in December. In fact, what has already been said about the predictability of the evolution of the epidemiological situation does not recommend that this step be taken, because, in fact, we have made presidential elections in a context that was, at first, more difficult than what we are going to face, we expect, in the next month of October, but the most decisive issue is that nothing guarantees us that the situation in October is better than in December, and then what would we do? Do we have to move forward sine die? So we are not going to follow the PSD proposal. With regard to the NAP proposal, what we believe is that it is not realistic in fact. Why? For now, the elections are very different from the presidential and legislative elections for the simple reason that there are more than 3000 different ballots...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u158	More than 4000!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u159	More than 4000 say Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and you will certainly know what you are talking about. But we do not know what kind of parishioners they vote and vote in many, they are not obliged to be all of the same parishioners and how is that solved? It doesn't work out! And that is why there can be no early vote on mobility as in the presidential elections and as in the legislative elections. It is not possible, however, to have an advance vote in mobility, so there is a misunderstanding here. Then what the NAP project proposes is that there be an extension of the possibility that voters in prophylactic confinement have been exceptionally given to go to vote on the place where they are or where they are, that is if they are in a residence. However, they propose that this be extended to all people over the age of 70. Just go to the censuses to verify that we are talking about 1 million and 700 thousand citizens. So it goes through the head of someone who can pick up the vote at home of 1 million and 700 thousand citizens? Who's doing this? How is that possible? Therefore, it is manifestly unrealistic to think about it. So, one thing is to adopt a regime similar to the one adopted in the presidential elections, if that is justified, if the epidemiological situation is justified, we cannot now think that it is possible to extend that right and someone to pick up the votes at home of 1 million and 700 thousand citizens who have that right. And we cannot start from the principle that the majority does not vote. We cannot start from this principle, so we have to be realistic, we are dealing with an electoral process and we cannot play with these things. As for the possibility of two days, we know that there are countries that do so. The NAP proposal is that the security forces keep the polls there. Now, we have 12,000 votes. So if we were to take part in the principle that they would be kept by two police officers, we would have 25 000 security forces officers doing a direct Saturday to Sunday or Sunday to Monday. This does not have the same degree of unrealism as the previous proposal, but, in any case, it is something that would have to be thought differently. Mr President, in conclusion, and with regard to the proposal from the Arrival, I think it is an expired proposal. Point 2 refers to the presidential elections that have already passed and point 1 refers to the update of the electoral books that are constantly updated, because there is no longer the famous database of the electoral census, which had such phantom voters. That's not like that anymore. The electoral system database is the citizen card database, it is the civil identification database...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u160	Finally, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u161	... and this is automatically updated, so this proposal does not make the slightest sense. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u162	Mrs. Isabel Oneto from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party does not follow the proposal of the Social Democratic Party regarding the postponement of the elections. And it does not follow because, in fact, all the explanation presented by the PSD does not bring us a single objective criterion that can measure the goodness of the solution presented. There is no reason, we have no objective, which allows us to predict that, in December, the situation is better than in September or October. As Mr Telmo Correia has said, the history we have is that it may even be worse, above all, at a time when we do not control the emergence of new strains. Therefore, the election campaign, to be held in September, will, as everything appears, have exactly the same characteristics as it would have in December, if the elections were postponed. But the postponement has a problem that led the legislator to change the date of the elections from December to October in 2005. It was precisely in order for the authorities to have their municipal budgets approved in time and time and not to enter the following calendar year in twelfths. This year will be a year that will require a lot of the authorities, because much of the Recovery and Resilience Plan is based on the authorities, inter-municipal entities and, therefore, we will need, yes, to have our local voters working in full so that, quickly, in the short time we have to implement the plan, it can be put on the ground. So we need elections, yes, we need elections in time and, above all, we need elections in the normal time of democracy. Democracy has acts, democracy has its rhythms, it has its practices, and the elections are fundamental to renew democracy and invigorate it, above all, in times of emergency. Therefore, we cannot follow the PSD proposal, because it was to postpone democracy. We also have some difficulties, which have already been mentioned here, with the NAP proposal, precisely because we need to realize that the amendments made to our electoral system must be very moderate and thorough. We cannot question the credibility and reliability of the election result because it also depends on the legitimacy of our electors. Mr António Filipe has already mentioned some of the problems that the NAP proposal brings here. As for the collection of ballots from electors who are in compulsory confinement, he speaks in a quarantine, but does not speak how long this quarantine lasts and the truth is that they are collected two days earlier to be delivered the day after the President of the Bureau. Therefore, there are features here regarding the NAP proposal that can hardly be enforceable. Its implementation would bring more problems in implementation than the problems it intends to solve. I also wanted to draw attention to the draft resolution of the European Union. In fact, the honourable Member has rightly referred to him in his presentation, precisely because it is a draft non-resolution. The truth is that there are no ghosts, there are no dead in our electoral notebooks, but there is one question: we have citizens living abroad who have a citizen's card to reside in Portugal and don't go through the head of no one to take their citizenship card, I suppose. You mean, Mr. Deputy has already sent Portuguese nationals to other places and now you also want to take our citizenship card? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was good for the arrival to say exactly what you want with regard to our electoral notebooks, our electoral census. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u164	We are left with the closure, for which I give the floor to Mr José Silvano of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u165	Mr. President and Mr. Members: First of all, I would like to say that all arguments are valid if we use them in good faith, and I think that everyone is in good faith. But I don't understand certain arguments they talk about in planning. If you want to plan and criticise yourself, in the presidents, that something more serious could happen in the pandemic because there was no planning...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u166	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u167	...and if this was discussed in the public square, I don't understand why planning doesn't have to be right now and has to be at the end of summer. At the end of summer, it's no more planning!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u168	It's reaction!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u169	That is a remedy that can happen if the pandemic is in fact much more serious. If we want to make planning, it's now. We can not define the deadline, it may not be two months, it could be six months, if proposals were made here and if we recognized that there was a problem. And he is recognized by the Minister of Internal Administration himself when he proposes two weekends to do the elections, although the Prime Minister has disallowed him in this matter, which gives us even more reason. This means that we are the only ones who believe in the words of the Government, the Prime Minister and the experts, who say that there can be group immunity at the end of August. So, if there can already be group immunity in August, in December of absolute certainty that large percentage of the population is vaccinated. This is a given objective, because what is said here, which we do not know what will happen, with a historical data, ignores that historical data has a new element, right now, which is the vaccine. And or we believe that the vaccine can, at least at that time, give the opportunity to carry out a campaign and a pre-campaign in security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u170	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u171	... or, then, only we believe in the government and experts who talk about the vaccine, more than the Socialist Party, with absolute certainty! It must be the only time that we believe more in what the government says about this matter than the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u173	Then, another since it is objective is the question of what is the electoral act and what is the electoral campaign. Some measures presented here are good for the course of the electoral act. But I ask: what do they solve about the pre-campaign and electoral campaign if it cannot be done safely and in proximity? Nothing! in an autonomous election in which people do not leave home, because the elderly, in small ways, in small councils, can't, with fear, get out, with fear, this solves how?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u175	That is the problem we must think about and predict, which is not done here. In conclusion, this means what? We want a strong and close campaign and we will prevent it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u176	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u177	If the solution is not this, that it is another one, but that it is taken seriously, while the PS wants a weak and fast campaign for everything to happen as it is. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u178	We are now entering point 6 of the agenda, which includes Parliamentary Assessments Nos 38 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 36 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 37 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), concerning Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December approving the general waste management regime, the legal regime for landfilling and amending the regime for the management of specific waste flows, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 849, 2018 / 850, 2018 / 851 and 2018 / 852. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The waste sector does not meet a single goal in the country, even those that are required and that is why we miss this government proposal. The Government has made a general waste law in which it has alleviated the rules for companies, kept the 'green road' for the irresponsibility of companies in the waste sector and has passed all responsibility and invoices for citizens. It is an immensely wrong path and it is appropriate to say that the statement that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action insists so much on repeating, that he is not an environmentalist, makes all the sense. The Block has presented a wide range of alternative measures and has scheduled this parliamentary assessment to present several amendments to the law, from then on, rules in the economy. Thus, where the Government has withdrawn, the Block reiterates the obligation of beverages to be placed on the market in reusable bottles. In this regard today, a study showed that 92 % of the population supports the system of recoverable tara. Therefore, we are perfectly comfortable with this proposal. We also want a standard and reusable packaging system for several rows, for example for delivery of food to the home. We place obligations on large companies and large distributors to provide alternative markets for sustainable consumption, particularly in reusable and bulk. We also withdraw the absolutely ridiculous benefit of turning old stonework into new wasteland. We also bring a number of measures to hold companies accountable in the waste sector. It is necessary to create new waste streams and it is necessary to generalize more effective methods of collection, such as door-to-door. At the same time, waste companies need to meet their goals and, yes, the privatization of EGF ( General Development Company, S.A. ) It was a monumental mistake. We also bring a number of changes to rates and rates. We guarantee that the costs of TGR (the waste management rate) cannot be passed on to the population — I repeat, the TGR cannot be included in the user tariff — but we refuse a discount on TGR to large companies in the sector, in particular to companies in the Mota-Engil Group. This bulla, in fact, has only rewarded its bad practices and its bad performance. We also propose that 50% of TGR's funds be delivered directly to the authorities so that they can make better investments in the waste sector. As far as the tariff is concerned, we propose that it should not be governed by the principle of cost recovery but rather by public service. We propose strengthening the mechanisms of the automated social tariff, introducing territorial cohesion measures, so that those who live inside no longer pay because of their address, and introducing a standard to prevent tariffs from being applied above the cost of the service. A concrete example: the negative record was recorded in Aveiro, where for every € 1 cost of the service the authority paid 1, 57 € of tariff to the population. Let us be clear: the rate of essential public services cannot be a burden on families, to finance the accounts of the authorities or the accounts of the State. I conclude with the central idea: the Government's programme defines the green tax bet with the replacement of labour taxes by environmentally negative behaviour rates and says it is neutral from the point of view of revenue. We call on the fact that we are not socially neutral. One part is right: labour taxes are high, but instead of the government deciding on the taxation of capital, it decides to keep the focus on the taxation of workers, now in an even more unfair model. Drops the progressiveity and creates rates that severely affect people with lower incomes. The Block proposal is different. It is about creating climate and social justice, creating production alternatives, ensuring less waste in origin, eliminating the constant extraction of natural resources for the economy and ensuring that environmental and climate response is not simply creating rates and more rates to the population. On the contrary, the climate response must also be a path of social equality, and that is the proposal we bring here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u180	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u181	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We have been repeating in this plenary for a year now that something is wrong in the waste sector in Portugal. Despite being a sector of vital importance for the country and for the quality of life of the populations, we have witnessed, month after month, year after year, a clear degradation of its ability to respond, its capacity and its robustness. The government, always entwined in its narrative in the form of a fable, much announces but does nothing. Complaints and complaints multiply and results are in view of all reports and indicators: we produce more and more waste, we favour landfill deposition, we reverse the existing trend until 2014 and we find ourselves increasingly distant from the targets with which we are committed. The Assembly of the Republic has long pointed out the concerns with this whole scenario and waits, almost six months ago, for the Minister of the Environment and Climate Action to respond to Parliament in an extraordinary hearing, which was adopted unanimously, and with urgency. We are well aware that the Minister has no urgency to respond to Parliament, he is even one of the recorders in the absence of answers according to the statistics available. There is no urgency to respond to Parliament as it does not have an urgent need to resolve the problems of the sector. It's urgent, yes, to showoff, to give the idea that everything is being done. It is even urgent to ensure that EDP ensures friendly conditions not to pay taxes, but has no urgency for what is its responsibility and what the country expects of its government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after more than five years of inoperance and government apathy in this sector, after all this time, in which the Secretary of State showed that she did not know about waste and that the Minister did not want to know about waste, we were confronted, at the end of the year, with the publication of two decrees, for which the PSD immediately requested due parliamentary assessments. Decree-Law No 92 / 2020, in which the Government, without creating conditions for the necessary investments to take place, once again limited its environmental policy to the most looting of citizens and municipalities, by doubling the waste management rate without further duplication, by fattening the Environmental Fund, of increasingly doubtful management, and soon the Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020, a huge decree with more than 300 pages called « crucial » by the Government itself, which transposes several European directives and creates new regimes for waste management and landfilling. A diploma which, given its complexity and relevance, required the involvement and commitment of all stakeholders in the sector but for which the Government decided to regulate the legislative process within a couple of weeks. To hide the inertia and apathy of recent years and to remedy the rush, to give the idea to Brussels that he did something was a script that the government chose, to the detriment of the entire waste sector. The updating of the legislation at the time of the beginning of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union was worth more to the Government than to properly legislate and provide the country with robust, coherent and capable legal tools. The rush was such that neither the principles of transparency nor participation were met. The diploma we are considering today was published without the report of your public consultation, which lasted only 14 days. It's unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that a legislative initiative of this importance, so structural for such a relevant sector, has had such a rapid and irresponsible process of constitution. And, as the people say, «who is evil, evil ends». The final result of this legislative jigajoga could only be beyond what is required. Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 and the new general waste management regulation leave many failures to fill, promote and perpetuate inefficiencies, do not simplify, do not involve citizens, penalise some agents and deresponsibilize others, ignore relevant systems, continue to refer to their definitions and regulations, undemand the requirement and safety with regard to the danger of some waste and address the principles of the circular economy, with which the Government so often fills its speeches and interventions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite all the concerns, complaints and complaints that have been made by all the agents of the sector, this process and this decree-law have not been structured, discussed or transparent. The result is in sight, disarticulation is obvious, the challenge is widespread and we all know that this is not how structural changes are promoted or why organizations and people act in a concerted, rigorous and constructive manner. We are now starting for a process of expertise that will be demanding, as the decree-law should have been, but for which the PSD has already presented a wide range of proposals and hopes to have the same response and capacity on the part of the various parliamentary groups that has allowed us to correct relevant aspects of government dismissals in a recent past. This government, which does not listen to anyone, will have to listen to the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u182	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has published a diploma, Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020, which affects a wide variety of aspects related to waste. It reviews the general waste management regime, the landfill regime, introduces changes to the specific flow system and changes to the environmental impact assessment. All this was done on all the steam, and why? It is that, in the midst of the rush, the real objective that should guide waste policy is to improve service to populations, reduce waste and raise environmental standards. And respect for the autonomy of local power remained behind. These were precisely the reasons why the CFP required the parliamentary review of this decree. A structuring diploma in the area of the environment cannot be treated in this way, either by the scope of the content it closes, or by the multiplicity of regimes that alters, or by its extension. The Government has given 15 days to the people involved and to speak on a 268-page document. Despite the warnings of the impossibility of properly examining the decree, the Government did not look back and ignored the request of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities to spend more time on public discussion. He advanced, and advanced in the usual logic, transferring costs to people, taxing populations! Without making a balance sheet of the current regime and the changes introduced in recent years, it opted for the most used revenue, increasing the TGR, increasing the turnover of each family. Now, none of the arguments to justify this take. When they introduced the TGR they argued that it would serve to improve waste management, to stimulate the achievement of national objectives and improve the performance of the sector. More than a decade later, an investment is not known in the systems made on account of TGR's revenue. The fee only served to finance the operation of services of the central administration. As regards the reduction of waste and the achievement of the objectives, it would not have to be much said, because it is in sight. The quantity of waste produced remained significantly the same and as for the destinations given to waste we continue to have selective collection and recycling rates around 10 %, while deposition values remain on crushing landfills. It is not for a person to pay more on the bill that there will be more appreciation, more recycling, more use. This requires investment in collection and treatment systems. People do not control production, market and packaging options, where those who support fees do not want to intervene and therefore have dropped the CFP proposals and continue to derail resources. This is the genesis error of solutions that emerge in individual accountability. There are situations in which if the city impacts on the bill the increase that is now proposed, the value paid by families increases 480 %, and the municipalities that want to absorb the rate so as not to increase the value for the population are absolutely strangled. Let us see the case of Setúbal: it would be 3 million that the municipality would be less to invest, it is 3 million that the government and all the parties that support the rate want to withdraw people and populations. And much more would there be to say about the diploma and the transfer of more and more responsibilities to the municipalities, without any allocation of funds or corresponding means. It goes from the collection of construction and demolition waste, to the collection of hazardous waste, of a hospital character, for example, to the new specific streams of various order. Mrs. Members, in the face of a hasty process, in which they treated public participation as mere formality, in which the opinion of the municipalities was ignored, in the face of an increase in the cost of living unacceptable at the time we went through, before the absence of environmental vision, of ambition for the effective reduction of waste, we propose the cessation of the validity of this diploma and that a serious public discussion process commence, which allows a discussion committed to the environment and the quality of life. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u184	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Secretary of State for the Environment, Inês Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss the legislative initiatives of the parliamentary groups of the PSD, the Left Block and the PCP of Parliamentary Assessment of Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December, which approved the new general waste management regime, the legal regime of landfilling and amending the regime of the management of specific waste flows. We read the explanatory statements presented and, in the light of the arguments raised, I will make the following considerations. The legislative process that led to the adoption of this diploma concerns directives adopted in 2018 which would have to be transposed by 2020. This work has therefore been ongoing since the beginning of the Parliament in 2019, contrary to what Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. And he was quite involved. In the specific case of the revision of the unified waste management regime, the Government also made it to the entities participating in the Waste Management Monitoring Committee, CAGER, which includes entities such as the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, management entities, industry associations, environmental associations, a script of the main amendments, from which we obtained 35 contributions to the completion of the initial project. The time for public consultation was, it is admitted, reduced, but as much as possible to the extent that the deadlines for transposition were already exceeded, also due to the increased effort required by the pandemic situation. Obviously, and yet we could not delay the transposition of these directives. And even with this limitation, I welcome the more than 260 contributions, in public consultation, all analyzed and weighted, resulting in several changes, obviously in the published diploma, in view of the version submitted to the public consultation. Through the extension of the diploma and the large number of contributions received, the work on the preparation of the report by APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) will continue to take place as soon as possible. As regards TGR, this is a fundamental instrument, such as the prohibition on the deposition of bio-residues and recyclable materials at landfills or the prohibition on supermarkets and restaurants to throw out food goods which are still consumable when there is social needs to come to terms with these measures. Ladies and gentlemen don't talk. They also seem to ignore the fact that 50 % of urban waste will land, 17 % for energy recovery and together there are 75 % wastes that are not subject to any material recovery process, including recycling materials. This is also emissions. The goals and obligations exist and are demanding and the resistance of the Mrs. Members suggest that, after all, planet B is just a slogan or that waste disappears by itself. Despite and precisely in view of the results of the public consultation, the TGR progression regime was re-evaluated, although still far from the European average from 35 to 40 €/tonne, and we introduced discounts in the TGR associated with meeting targets in the bioresidues of urban systems. The more material prevention and recycling or recovery, the greater the discount. Nor is it true that the government has not supported investment. It is EUR 300 million (Operational Programme Sustainability and Resource Efficiency) for waste recovery and EUR 215 million has already been approved, corresponding to nearly 170 operations. It is EUR 750 million provided for in the 2030 NIP ( National Investment Programme 2030 ) for the sector, especially for the collection of bio-residues and mandatory selective collection waste. The diploma provides that 30% of the TGR is affected by projects to be developed by the municipalities, and it is not necessary to say what the environmental fund has already approved before: projects of the freguey boards, technical training of the municipalities, financial support for the development of collection plans, which had a accession of 91 % of the municipalities, and by this year the environmental fund has at least EUR 8 million reserved for support in circular economic waste aimed at autarchies. All these investments contribute to the removal of landfill and incineration residues and thus reduce the TGR to be paid. With regard to the public or private nature of waste management systems, this decree does not interfere with the public-private border, but I can say on the basis of 2019 data that having public or concessional management has no difference in meeting goals. In addition, 19 of the 23 systems send more than 50 % of their landfill waste. But this performance cannot be attributed only to the systems, because they are not those that produce or consume what generates waste or use or recycle these materials. And that is why in this decree I have made the government responsible for every link in the chain: from whom it produces to whom it collects, something which you are responsible for. Members intend to ignore, focusing only on the performance of multi-municipal systems. With regard to the re-use targets for beverage packaging, it should be borne in mind that the directive does not require targets to be established, but, nevertheless, the diploma there has, in a model of self-regulation, to be adopted by the end of 2022. In view of the public consultation contributions, we have introduced safeguards for this approach to fail, 20 % and 50 % of the annual volume of measures placed on the market, reusable packaging for 2025 and 2030. The gentlemen. Members prefer to focus on these measures rather than on others, such as the fact that this decree does promote reusable packaging and reuse systems, with obligations for the distribution, retail and restoration industry. In 2020, this government was accused of returning Portugal to the trash can of Europe. There was consensus in the Assembly of the Republic to rise to TGR as a measure to discourage landfilling — at least twice, it was said — and here, before a decree-law introducing several innovative measures, which aims to break with the status quo, which drives the adaptation of companies, municipalities and citizens to achieve at least the right way, there are Members who want to turn around and...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u186	Mr. Secretary of State, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u187	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, there are Members who want to turn around and pick up again for the low cost of landing option and so that bad behavior is not penalized. In short, they want the essential services of the environment to continue to be seen as an account to reduce at any cost and in any way, rather than a service with certain accounts, so that it can be invested and guaranteed all economic, social and environmental benefits. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u188	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The NAP will accompany all parliamentary assessments under discussion. First of all, because the lack of transparency in this process is not acceptable, in which a diploma of this complexity and importance, with more than 400 pages, only had a 15-day public consultation period and was, however, published without any knowledge of the outcome of this public consultation — very fast, little transparency — and because this diploma introduces substantial changes, many of the doubtful legality and on which we have serious doubts that contribute to the protection of the environment and the public interest. We give the example of bioresidues. In July 2019, the Government approved by dispatch the allocation of the selective collection of bioresidues to multi-municipal systems whose majority shareholder is the General Development Company, of the Mota-Engil Group. After several public criticisms of the President of the Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services and of the Zero environmental association, the office was referred to the Attorney General of the Republic ( PGR ) for evaluation. In November 2019, after the PGR's unfavorable opinion, the order was revoked by the Government. In the meantime, the government is again granting this allocation, now under the clothing of the law decree that we appreciate today. Now, let's see how this China business works. The government is assigning to the EGF, a private company, a competence of the municipalities, simply putting aside the option of public procurement because, in practice, currently, the municipalities or directly collect these wastes or contract the collection to privates, through public procurement. What is likely to happen will be an internal subcontracting of the EGF to a company of the Mota-Engil Group, the Suma, which, without a public tender, will remain with the business of collecting bioresidues. It will be an excellent financial asset for the Mota-Engil Group, in an authentic bypass of competition rules with the private and public procurement rules. The Government withdraws competence from the municipalities, which it cannot, from our point of view, by decree-law, and extends the concessions of the multi-municipal systems, which is also contrary to the assumptions of the authorisation of the Competition Authority for the privatization of the EGF and which is, of course, illegal. And this is just one example of the much to discuss about this diploma. Other questions that raise doubts lie with the allocation of private wastes less than 1100 litres per day to public systems—as if it is possible to measure how much these privates deposit—which will entitle the public system and imply failure to comply with the polluter-payer principle; or the allocation to EGF of the collection and treatment of textile waste, used food oils, hazardous waste, furniture waste and other bulk waste, construction and demolition waste, again without public tender; or the value of the waste management rate for incineration is lower than landfill; or, moreover, the application of the TGR money, which should be reverted to investments in the sector, and the need to define a minimum distance between landfills and populations, among many other aspects that we should discuss in committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u190	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u191	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, there are many of the doubts and concerns that we have and which, on our part, will deserve a particularly close involvement in the debate that will continue in Parliamentary committee to improve the legal regime of waste management and avoid the possible spread of new 'hidden faces' in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u192	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva's MEP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary assessments we are discussing today concerning Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 bring to the discussion the management of waste and its complexity in various aspects, in which The Greens have had intervention. Although the decree covers very significant and complex changes, it was only 15 days in public discussion, conditioning the reflection, evaluation and participation of associations, entities and citizens in general. The prevention and reduction, which have been quite secondary, are essential in waste policy and its elimination should only be adopted when there are no treatment solutions. The legislative package, contrary to what the Greens have defended, focuses on the responsibility of the citizen, in the perspective of the polluter-payer, discarding the responsibility of the disposable industry. The Greens have insisted on the need to act upstream, with the reduction of packages, but PS and PSD have made the initiatives presented impermissible. For example, with regard to waste electrical and electronic equipment, it is essential to expand the guarantees, the quality of the material, to become more durable and durable, to encourage repair and to combat planned obsolescence. As regards urban solid waste, the goals proposed in the Strategic Plan for Urban Solid Waste have not been reached in the selective collection, recycling and final destination. On the other hand, the predominance of the private sector in managing entities following the sale of EGF in 2015 by the PSD/CDS Government to the Mota-Engil Group has shown that it is not compatible with the objectives and targets to be achieved at the level of the RSU(urban solid waste) as the Greens have warned. The perspective of the business overlaps with the goals to be achieved. For example, in low-density municipalities, low coverage and uncommon collection translate into low selective collection rates. The diploma does not guarantee measures to mitigate this reality and the costs of collection prevail over waste recovery or even fall on the authorities and citizens. Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 provides for the gradual, very significant increase by 2025 of the waste management rate, clearly penalizing municipalities and consequently the populations, an option contested by different entities, from then on by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. The polluter-payer principle, which is inherent in rates and/or rates and increasing them, itself, neither fosters nor leads to the adoption of more sustainable behaviors by the population, before, on the contrary, may even lead to environmental attacks, the emergence of landfills and the deposition of hazardous wastes, such as as as asbestos, in inappropriate places and harm populations with less economic resources. The law still leaves open the possibility of filling old rocks and excavated areas with non-hazardous waste, which can lead to serious environmental and public health impacts, since this is not synonymous with non-contaminated or non-contaminated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u194	Now you have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr Hugo Pires, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing three requests for parliamentary review concerning the new Government diploma regulating waste management in Portugal. This decree means turning a page into environmental policy, particularly in the policy and waste sector. It represents another step forward since, more than 20 years ago, a Socialist Party Government ended up with the garbage in this country. It represents another step forward towards carbon neutrality and the fulfilment of intermediate goals. It represents another step forward towards sustainability, the value of our resources and the most and best quality of life. I was looking forward to what the parties who asked for parliamentary approval — the Left Block, the PCP and the PSD — would say in the rostrum. And my expectations were confirmed: they came here to prove life and to say that they also have ideas for the environment and sustainable development. This proof of life, well, we accept it, and I am glad that these parties have ideas about sustainable development. But what are those ideas? If we look at the PCP, your idea is that everything stays in the PCP, I repeat, everything stays in the PCP. Furthermore, it does not want to increase the rate of waste and, above all, it has a programme against the private sector and to centralize all waste management in the State. In this respect, I just want to give a number to the CFP: the worst waste systems in Portugal are the waste systems managed by PCP authorities; 82 % of the wastes they generate do not have any material value. Therefore, it is registered that are the worst municipalities, at the level of waste management, in Portugal,... [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] ...but the PCP wants everything to stay the same. The Left Block, about a year and a half ago, was the largest defender of the increase in TGR. Well, he's changed his mind. And why did you change your mind? Now, he has found a new argumentary, he has created soundbits, a new narrative, which is that the public interest is subject to private interests. But this narrative, which tries to create some opacity here, does not suit the Left Block. The Left Block is a party with many responsibilities and therefore requires more to the Left Block. That is why it is good for the Left Block to come up with the debate, which presents ideas, but above all, that it should have a serious debate and not come here to raise ghosts or create some opacity in the process. Finally, the PSD is that party that, a few years ago, when leading a government, has put into the drawer structural projects to achieve carbon neutrality, sneezed, in its governance, to meet the minimum services and whose investment was almost zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u196	That conversation is not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u197	Today, one of your biggest concerns in this parliamentary assessment is where there will be investment. Well, Mr, I will tell you: 30 % of TGR's revenue will be for investment in municipal systems; 750 million euros in the National Investment Plan 2030 are for the waste sector; 220 million euros in the current Community framework are for the waste sector; and last October we opened a notice for EUR 18 million in the waste sector, to which 95% of the municipalities applied. Therefore, in view of this alternative reality that the PSD tries to mount as to the lack of investment in the sector, I present the facts, what happens. It was good for the PSD to descend to the earth and for a moment speak of what is truly important and what is truly real. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u198	Having said that, I would like to say that we are available to discuss and perhaps accept proposals, the Socialist Party itself will consider whether or not to make proposals, but I think it is always possible to improve this document. Of one thing I am sure, waste policy is very important for our sustainable development, for the sustainability of the country and, above all, for us to make a more sustainable country for future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u199	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u200	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, in fact, we need a rigorous discussion on this subject and it was neither rigorous nor what the Government has come here to say, nor what the Socialist Party has come here to say. In fact, the reality lies - and the report that APA presents to us on urban waste says exactly the opposite of what you have said. On multi-municipal systems, it says precisely that the ownership of the systems is not indifferent and that, from the moment it was privatized, the service has worsened a lot. By the way, let the EGF workers also say so. On the other hand, I also tell you that the problem here is that you did not want to approve the CFP proposal, otherwise we were not having this discussion. The proposal of the CFP...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u201	The proposal of the CFP is for everything to remain in it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u202	...improved the valuation rates, had more recycling, and the gentlemen dropped it, as they always do when this is going to touch the strong. You gentlemen are good at taxing the people! That's where they're always ready! But I am going to tell you this: it is not for people to pay a higher bill that waste will disappear and that suddenly there will be systems that will brutally value waste.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u203	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u204	That didn't work! That is what you have always said since the beginning, since the fee was introduced, but there is no behaviour that follows the arguments that you are using here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u205	Mrs. Deputy, you've already used twice as much time as you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u206	Therefore, this does not take and is a huge insensitivity not to perceive the dramatic moment that we are living and taxing families even more, worsening their living conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u207	Mr Bruno Coimbra, from the PSD, has the floor to speak for 7 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u208	I will try to be strict, Mr. President. I listened carefully to Mr Hugo Pires and didn't even want to believe very well what I heard. The PS, in fact, has to say something and so we won't even waste much time talking about the state in which they left the country when we went to the government, but we well know that what I said is not true and that many of the things they talked about, like the PO SEUR, that the Secretary of State spoke about, still come from PSD initiatives. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to tell you that, like Mr. Minister, the Secretary of State speaks well, speaks very well, but there are two problems. The first problem is that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u209	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u210	...as Mr. Minister, the Secretary of State has decided little. And it is strange that he comes with so many inaccuracies and that he even talks about funds, when he has the implementation he has in the funds. The second problem is no longer to speak well and to do little, to hear bad. You should hear better the entities you mentioned and what they say about your work. As regards this diploma, please rest assured that this Parliament will be up to its responsibilities to compensate for the resignation of the Secretary of State. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the closing stage of this debate and I begin by giving the floor to Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u212	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work. Will the government not speak before the Left Block, since the scheduling is the Left Block? It is that the Government also has two minutes for the closure, but, as the agenda is for the Left Block, I believe that the last word in the debate is for the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u213	All right. He will therefore use the floor after the Secretary of State. Mrs Inês Costa, Secretary of State of the Environment, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was important for the Assembly of the Republic to show greater concern about how we will meet short-term reduction and recycling targets and on the responsibilities of each one in this area, and not only those of the Government. So far, except for a few exceptions, I do not see that concern. First, we prefer to politicize a serious theme for our own benefit, by launching confusion and uncertainty, because, after all, "we will not meet goals in any way", is it not true? Oh, my God! I would like to hear proposals on how to better dissociate the fare of the urban waste management service from water consumption. I would like to hear from the Assembly of the Republic in our interest to understand why two-thirds of municipalities continue not to cover costs with essential environmental services, against what is stipulated by the Local Finance Act — law today, so defended by the right — and against the commitments required to obtain public and Community funds or to understand why more than 200 municipalities have social tariffs, but only 1% of housing has access to these rates, when we know that there is a need. All these issues are important, but they are not matters in which this government area can unilaterally impose solutions, although we warn several times and we want to work, if in fact there is such an interest. To say 'climate emergency' is not just looking at a sector, it is also doing this work, which is very and very difficult. But unlike expected, it seems that some Members want to ignore the polluter-payer principle and call to the State the cost and responsibility for the treatment of pollution and waste production, whether they are the individual or the company. This has been the focus given by Mr. Members of the TGR, in such an extensive and innovative degree, who do not seem to be concerned about what these goals will require and seem to ignore, or ignore, the reasons why this diploma is distinguished by positive. They ignore how we are reserving 30 % of the GGR for investments in municipalities; how we are supporting security and inspection forces in environmental actions such as IGAMAOT ( General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and Land Planning ), GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and PSP ( Public Safety Police ) ; how until 2025 the rates charged by the service will no longer be associated with water consumption; how in 2024 we will have to have a network for bioresidues; the simplification of the process of declassification of waste for by-products, in order to be easier to replace raw materials; the prohibition of landfilling of waste from selective and bioresidues...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u215	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u216	Finally, there are several measures which this decree of law introduces and which break with the past. instead, we continue to talk about costs, interests, landfill instead of talking about reduction, reuse and recycling. If we continue to do so, I advise the honourable Members. Members who begin to discuss with their authorships who will be available to host incineration and landfill plants. We prefer to continue working to encourage the circular economy and decarbonisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u217	To close this debate, Mr. Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by mentioning what has not happened again in this debate. I am referring to the fact that the PSD has not taken the opportunity to say: “ Take a good look! We privatized the EGF and it went so well! Do not keep on seeking. ” But something strange happened. It's just that the PS Member Hugo Pires came to dress up the privatisation shirt, defending the privatized companies. In fact, the PS, in 2015, signed an agreement with the Left Block for the Nationalization of the EGF and now comes to defend privatization? Oh, my God! How the PS has changed these years! The Secretary of State spoke very confidently, very forcefully. There's only one problem, which is reality. It is that there is not a single goal that is met in the requirements. Companies, particularly privatized companies, such as EGF, are a disaster, and the Secretary of State comes to talk as if everything was going well. He's not! But the key phrase of the Secretary of State is this: either a service sector with certain accounts. Mr. Secretary of State, service with the right accounts for whom? For Mota-Engil, or for people, in particular at their reduced rate, at the social rate, an equal rate for those who live inside and are not penalized for that and also for the targets? It is that Mota-Engil can have certain accounts in the bank, but in its goals and obligations to the country and to the people only have completely wrong accounts. So what we were hoping for from the Secretary of State is to support the proposals that the Block brings, for more selective collection, more waste streams, more door-to-door collection and for the reduction of waste to landfill. In conclusion, the Secretary of State also came with an apology, which is this: "Look at this! The government didn't want any of this! This is a transposition which comes from a European standard. We have nothing to do with this! Do not keep on seeking. ” Don't! It is a government choice, because the European standard says that there were specific standards and targets for reusable bottles and the government then says : « Well, whoever decides about goals is not the government, it is the companies. » It is the Coca-Cola, it is the Pink Sweet, it is the market that decides!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u219	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u220	I conclude, Mr. President. Therefore, the Government's decision is to say that the entry of waste into the market is « to Lagardère », it is very well understood, without limits, because then there is the people to pay, in particular at the rate. Our choice is different: it is to change the economy, to hold companies responsible for producing and managing waste, including Mota-Engil, and to protect populations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u221	Before we move on to the seventh item on the agenda, I give the floor to Ms.Secretariat Sofia Araújo to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform the House that in relation to the debate that has just taken place, they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, proposed amendments to the PSD, within the framework of Parliamentary Assessment No 36 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), and BE, within the framework of Parliamentary Assessment No 38 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). It also entered the Resolution Project No 1145 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) requesting the termination of the decree of law that has been appreciated. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u223	Thank you very much, Secretary. We then enter the seventh point on our agenda, of which the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 68 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Returns amounts and calculation rules on termination of the contract of employment and dismissal, 50 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Repeals the amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the period of the troika which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers by making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 692 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Repeals the presumption of acceptance of collective dismissal due to acceptance of compensation paid by the employer, making the sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 704 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer makes compensation available to the worker(Tenth sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February) and 714 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Change the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the young workers who today went out on the street, in a national action to fight promoted by Interjovem, denouncing and rejecting precariousness, low wages, unemployment, and claiming employment with rights, value of wages and stability in employment. These young workers were tremendously affected by precariousness, it is covered by long-term contracts, false green receipts, part-time or hour work, experimental period, temporary work, outsourcing, scholarships, internships, or digital platforms. Precautionary is the precondition for unemployment and the instrument for reducing wages, weakening social protection and preventing career progression, sowing uncertainty and instability in the future of young workers. These young workers were significantly affected by unemployment, because their precarious reality also means that they are the first to be considered disposable. More than 70 000 young people will be unemployed. There are nearly 432 000 unemployed registered at the IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ), according to February of this year, more than 116 000 in February of 2020 and more than 30 000 in December of 2020. More than 50 000 of these workers are under the age of 25 and many have not been registered in employment centres because they are unemployed. In 2020, according to data from the DGRT ( Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ), more than 7500 workers were fired using collective dismissal. In the first two months of the year, 88 collective dismissal processes were initiated. Among these processes are PCF (Felgueiras Foot Production ), in Felgueiras, reaching more than 400 workers, or the second collective redundancies process of Eurest, which in six months made two collective redundancies after, in 2020, having traveled to layoff, reaching more than 260 workers, in its overwhelming majority women. These workers and many others who have been fired since 2012 were shot for unemployment with cuts in redundancies with cuts in their rights. Today, saying goodbye is easier and cheaper. They were offered, by hand, to the employerate, redundancies at a balance price. Today, anyone who is dismissed under a collective dismissal is entitled to 12 days of compensation for each year of work. Today, anyone who is dismissed due to expiry of the contract is entitled to 18 days of compensation for each year of work. Today, who is fired after 15, 20, 30 years in a company, will be considered only 12 years of work for compensation, ignoring for these calculations the remaining working time. Today, anyone who wants to challenge collective dismissal, whoever wants to defend and fight for his job and his reintegration must abdicate the compensation, which is his right, because the law assumes that accepting compensation is to accept dismissal by the worker. With this bill, the PCP corrects all these injustices and restores the rights of workers who are confronted with dismissals, rights that the present moment, marked by increased unemployment and collective dismissals, confirms that it is urgent to restore. We propose, in the amounts and rules for calculating compensation for termination and collective dismissal, that is to be considered a month of basic remuneration and diucturities for each full year of seniority, without any maximum limit of years for calculating compensation, because each year of work must count for compensation. We ensure that workers can challenge the dismissal of their target and receive compensation for that same dismissal. It is a profound injustice to place workers « between the sword and the wall», imposing on them, at a time of greater weakness, the choice between compensation or defence of the job. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the review of the Labour Code in 2012, at the hands of the PSD and the CDS, represented a profound attack on the rights of workers, meant the imposition of forced and free labour, eliminated holidays meanwhile restful by the struggle of workers and on proposal of the CFP ; reduced working days ; cut compulsory rest days; extorted workers millions of euros; promoted the elimination of tens of thousands of jobs; aimed at reducing wages; worsened and generalized the bank of hours; intensified the deregulation of working hours; called into question the articulation between professional life and personal and family life; promoted the increase of precariousness; constituted a strong attack on collective recruitment and promoted redundancies. If PSD and CDS sowed precariousness, exploitation and impoverishment with these changes, the PS in 2019 did not want to reverse the situation. And it was not because of the lack of proposals from the CFP that this did not happen! Without prejudice to other measures, many of which the CFP has proposed, such as the amendment of criteria and requirements for redundancies, the measures to prevent redundancies, especially in the current context, the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, the defence of jobs, the general value of wages and the strengthening of social protection, it is also important to restore and strengthen the rights of dismissal compensation to men and women workers facing this situation today. This is what we propose, because the recognition and appreciation of workers and their rights are central to progress and social justice. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u225	Mr Soeiro now gives the floor to present the two legislative initiatives of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very difficult to understand that, in the midst of a pandemic crisis, the rules and cuts of the troika remain in dismissals. at a time when so many people are losing their jobs, maintaining these standards that were intended to facilitate dismissals and significantly embarrass them, cutting to less than half the value of compensation due to workers, is a political error, it is a choice that takes the side of the strongest, it is a subordination to the imbalance in favour of employers, it is a pact with one of the most negative inheritances of austerity in the Labour Code. On this matter, as is known, there has been no possible agreement between the left and the Socialist Party. Whether by ideological conviction, whether by European obedience, the Government has proved irreducible in the maintenance of these cuts and has not even been available in the negotiation of the last Budget, to take a small step towards justice and balance, as we have come to propose, and recover at least 20 days of compensation for each year of work when a contract reaches its end. Cheap layoffs and these cuts from 30 to 12 days, when there are tens of thousands of precarious contracts that end and hundreds of collective redundancies, it is an indecent punishment in the lives of those who live from their work. But in addition to this issue, which concerns the value of compensation, we are discussing another matter today. That is the other subject, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it concerns, as Prof. Jorge Leite would say, not only the worker's portfolio and economic devaluation, but also the worker's conscience, freedom and consideration. It was on 8 April 1999 that this Parliament passed a bill, submitted by Antonio Guterres, then Prime Minister, and by Ferro Rodrigues, then Minister of Labour, to put an end to a rule that numbed the workers: the one that determined that the receipt by the worker of a valid compensation as acceptance of the dismissal. It was a highly symbolic proposal because, apparently a detail, it is also against these forms of humiliation and domination of the worker, of restriction of his rights as a person and as a citizen that labour law should take a stand. This rule, whose revocation was like a brand of Antonio Guterres and Ferro Rodrigues, would return to the law of work by the right hand with the code of Bagão Félix in 2003. And, despite many discussions, the awkwardness of many socialists, the criticism of so many jurists, the mobilization of unions, the rule that returned to the law in 2003 remained in the law in 2009 and remained in the law until today. In fact, in 2018, the project we are presenting today again came to be approved with the votes of the Socialist Party. But then, as you know, the government wanted to sign an agreement with the employers in social consultation and, in the process of specialty, the project, which had been approved by the PS and the left, would ultimately end up falling with the votes of the PS and the right. We don't give up! This is an opportunity for Parliament to reconsider this matter. The dismissal on objective grounds gives workers the right to compensation for the loss of employment. This compensation is mandatory and is a condition indispensable to the dismissal. But, being compulsory, it is not enough to validate this dismissal. If it is illegal, dismissal should not be regarded as lawful because of the employer's mere fact transferring compensation to the worker he would have in any case right. The fact that the employer transfers to the worker's account a certain amount does not mean that the worker resigns and conforms to the dismissal or refrains from contesting judicially. Acceptance of monetary compensation by the worker cannot convert dismissal into a kind of revocation of the contract by mutual agreement. This presumption in the law is serious, it is offensive and indeed of dubious constitutionality. Why should a worker who has lost his job and his only income in the exercise of his rights in this way be numbed? In a fragile position, what freedom remains for the worker with this rule? It is important to stress that the worker always has the right to receive this compensation, if the dismissal is considered valid or if the dismissal is considered unlawful. in this case, in fact, you are entitled to a compensation greater than that which is foreseen. This money is always from the worker in view of this situation, so there is no reason to deprive the worker of this amount or the possibility to challenge an illegal dismissal. Or rather, there is a reason, but it is frankly unacceptable: to silence the expression of the worker's will, to discourage the exercise of his rights, to domesticize the person of the worker, in the name of a propagated reduction of labour litigancy. This, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be! This, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, it cannot be and can be changed! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u227	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we bring here a number of proposals, and the NAP did not steal from this debate, in which Parliament wants to discuss whether or not it wants to put an end to one of the greatest injustices contained in our labour legislation. We refer in particular to the presumption of acceptance of collective dismissal due to the acceptance of the full compensation paid by the employer provided for in the Labour Code, which, as has already been said, constitutes a great injustice in the face of the worker's power of reaction to this presumption. This presumption seems absolutely perverse to us, from the very outset, because in practice the worker is unable to challenge collective dismissal. With this framework, the dismissed worker is placed in a dilemma: or accept compensation that guarantees minimum subsistence in the context of unemployment and renounces his rights or asserts his rights and puts himself in a very fragile social situation. This injustice becomes even greater if we address two additional aspects. On the one hand, the value of compensation that the worker will be entitled to receive due to dismissal will always be the minimum value, regardless of the judicial challenge. In other words, challenge or not collective dismissal, the worker will never receive less than he has received and that the law obliges him to return. In view of this, the question is whether it makes any sense to demand the delivery of all value, thereby undermining the exercise of a right and not to be in a fragile social situation. On the other hand, we must not forget that, in justice, there is a context marked by the laxity of the processes of challenge and collective dismissal. Let us look at specific cases. One is that of the workers of BBVA (Bbanco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria) fired in collective dismissal in 2014 and who only last year had the final decision, which considered the illegal dismissal and forced the reintegration of six workers. It's been six years waiting! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of forcing these workers to give up the fair compensation that is due them? Another case is that of the workers of the New Bank who were dismissed in collective dismissal whose process began in October 2016 and who, having spent almost five years, still had not even the first trial hearing. In this respect we cannot ignore what the Labour Code says in Article 366 (4) and (5). the, which call into question the right of workers to access to justice. This standard is not only criticized by the NAP but also by workers' representative organisations. The doctrine, whether more progressive or more conservative, has been unanimous in the criticism made to these provisions. Prof. Leal Amado speaks of a " Frankly Censorable" standard. Prof. Júlio Gomes speaks in a « unhappy» presumption. Prof. Lobo Xavier calls this presumption « inconsistent », because dismissal constitutes a unilateral act of the employer that does not depend on the acceptance of the worker, and « unfair », because it limits to a large extent the exercise of the worker's right to challenge the collective dismissal. What we are discussing today should not be linked to ideological divisions, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore important to say that this is not a norm that weakens employers or that empowers workers unmeasuredly. Again, it is not only the NAP that says it, it is the doctrine that, by voice, for example, of the Profs. Jorge Leite, Monteiro Fernandes or Furtado Martins, states that the solution provided for in Article 366. that of the Labour Code at nothing benefits the employer or contributes to the social pacification that is required. There is a neutral economic effect, since the challenge of dismissal by the worker does not generate additional drawbacks in the face of those who are associated with the judicial action itself. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to decide whether we want to end a penalty that only limits those who are economically more vulnerable, a penalty that is clearly unfair. For a question of justice, which is very extravagant in ideological sections or left-right dichotomy, we promote legislative steps such as those proposed by the NAP here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u229	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we look back, we can easily see that labour legislation has, over time, been the subject of profound changes, causing a worsening of imbalance in labour relations, but always in the detriment of those who work. In view of things, it was the pretext of competitiveness, growth, employment, crisis or external taxation, all served to weaken and detach the worker's position in the labour relationship. We have, therefore, seen for several years, and with particular emphasis in the period of the last PSD Government and the CDS-PP, an offensive against whom it works, marked by the sharp degradation of the living conditions of most Portuguese families. However, this unfair and immoral emphasis on exploitation was the result, rather than predictable, of options that were materialized through these amendments to the Labour Code and which eventually resulted in the devaluation of work and even an unprecedented attack on the fundamental rights of those who work. Furthermore, it is never too much to remember the amendments to labour legislation relating, for example, to the concept of just cause for dismissal or changes in order to weaken and block collective bargaining or even the disappearance, in our legal order, of the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker. But the government then did not stay there and further promoted changes around the rules for dismissal, which resulted in a genuine invitation to employers to lay off, placing the compensation, in case of dismissal, cheaper and making the process easier. As, of course, these options have only come to stimulate lay-offs, make work cheaper, make people work more and earn less and, above all, weaken even more the worker's position in the labour relationship. Today, all these years, we can conclude that these changes have caused dramatic social situations and have not solved any of the problems of the country and the workers, on the contrary, only aggravated them. Thus, and despite the fact that other measures must be reversed in terms of work, the Greens believe that it is time to bring more justice and restore some balance in labour relations, restating the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal that they were in place before the intervention of the PSD / CDS-PP government. In fact, it was clear that what caused these changes was the substantial reduction in the value of compensation in the event of dismissal, which went from 30 days to 20 days per year of work, with the limit of 12 years of service, and also for employers to be able, without major obstacles, to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. That is to say, these changes had nothing to do with competitiveness, growth and much less with employment as they were at the time. by making the dismissal cheaper for employers, the government of then finally offered a premium to employers, in a clear fidelity to neoliberalism imposed on Portuguese workers. For all this, it is now necessary to remove these amendments to the labour law of our legal system. This is what is intended with this Greens initiative: to restore the values and calculation criteria for compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal, once again being a month of remuneration and their subsistence for each full year of service and without any maximum limit of years, thereby bringing more justice to labour relations and, in this regard, seeking to take into account that the PSD and the CDS have not done this evil. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u231	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will devote this liberal minute to what is frightening, because at a recent PS meeting the Prime Minister said: « The way in which the labour market in Portugal has been disorganized over the years is even scary '. Now, I would like it not to be true—but it is — that the country has been ruled six years ago by a left-wing majority led by Antonio Costa. It can therefore be concluded that what the Prime Minister classifies as scary is his own work. And here we finally have something we agree on. It is also frightening to observe the contortions of the CFP, which six years ago supported this government. Support, but disagree. He says he wants to move forward in labour law, but he wants to go back to work policy for more than a decade. He says he wants to support SMEs, but he wants to remove the working flexibility that SMEs need more and more. It is also frightening that the Bloc and the CFP are unable to understand what many international organisations have already concluded long ago: that the rigid framework in contracts without end is what increases the use of temporary contracts, especially for young people. The PS, which does not realize that it is not governments that create jobs, boasts that it has created hundreds of thousands of jobs until the beginning of the pandemic. The PS does not realize that this happened with the legislation that exists today. The PS doesn't realize there's a connection between the two. And we are ruled by those who don't understand this is — there it is! — scary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u233	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today five bills are discussed, one from the PCP, another from the PAN, another from the Greens and two from the Left Block, all in the same sense, i.e. modifying the Labour Code for the tenth time. The diplomas of the CFP and the Greens propose to amend Articles 344. o, 345. is 366. the, the Left Block and the PAN want to amend Article 366. o. Some of these projects present a set of arguments that make us reflect, as is the case with the NAP bill. Other projects, on the contrary, diabolize a difficult period of country governance with a certain tone of revenge, especially the bills of the PCP and the Greens, even reaching the CFP to diagnose a “civilizational retrogress”. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if these parties were in the government, we would certainly be watching the nationalization of companies and banks, the repudiation of the debt of creditors, outside Portugal of the European Union. Fortunately, most Portuguese do not follow this illusion and prefer democratic institutions and concertation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, social dialogue and social dialogue are not mere figures of rhetoric, they represent the first interested and, at the same time, the first target audience of labour laws. I cannot fail to recall that in 2018 a social agreement has been signed between the social partners and the Government of the Socialist Party entitled « Combating precariousness and reducing labour segmentation and promoting greater dynamism in collective bargaining », and a number of measures have been agreed, in particular by amending the Labour Code. But the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), a social partner supported by the PCP, raised a question of staying out, not accepting any kind of commitment or agreement with other partners, expressing deep mistrust for all that is not in its ideological area, totally disrespecting social dialogue and social dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not take these shortcuts, we must resist them. The first interested in labour laws are workers and companies. They create wealth and pay taxes to ensure the functioning of the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u236	These partners are represented in social consultation, and it is here that the profound changes to the Labour Code are discussed and consensualized. The Economic and Social Council and social dialogue cannot be partisan, but what we should all be concerned about is unemployment, rather than increasing. There are already about half a million people enrolled in the IEFP and only 56 % of them receive unemployment benefit. There are 7000 Portuguese families in which both members of the couple are unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not the labour laws in force that caused this situation. On the contrary, the country even had some economic growth before the pandemic and it was COVID-19 that seriously affected the labour situation, increasing inequalities, especially gender inequalities — we have 240,000 unemployed women for 190,000 unemployed men. The crises are not gender neutral and women always pay most of the bill. I cannot but mention the inexhaustible action of the solidarity and social sector, Caritas and the Food Bank, which give an immediate response to the brutal increase in poverty. Every day new poor people join the old poor—it is tragic. I will once again state in this plenary that it is not only the State that supports the social sector, it is the social sector that supports the State and sometimes replaces it in situations that should be under its wing. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the current framework of a health crisis which inevitably results in an economic and social crisis, we must concentrate on defending companies and their workers. in such an uncertain and difficult future, changes to labour legislation can bring contrary consequences to what we want. We must therefore avoid - in dialogue - there are no companies without workers or workers without companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group advocates better jobs, better wages, more modern and more competitive companies, and the government can do all of this within the existing legal framework. the government is responsible for governing, but it will have to start working and planning in the medium and long term, and cannot remain for the answers of propaganda on television, which only causes disorientation, disorganization and uncertainty in the economy and society. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u237	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Fernando José, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the initiatives of the PCP, the Left Block, the ENP and the NAP, recognizing the importance of the issues in the way of the replacement of rights and the fight against precariousness, for more and better conditions in labour relations. This is a path so far taken by the Government, the Socialist Party and all the left, and which, even in an unprecedented crisis context, continues to be travelled without blind cuts, without the withdrawal of rights and with the fight against precariousness as a central objective in government action. Indeed, in the fight against this crisis, one does not take a step back in the achievements achieved in the past five years. In the fight against this crisis, we do not take a step back in the replacement of rights and therefore it must be reaffirmed that, contrary to what happened in the 2011 - 2014 crisis, the responses now found by the Government to combat the effects of this new and difficult phase of our lives do not consist of austerity measures. These are therefore very clearly distinguishing marks from the Government of the Socialist Party of Right-wing Government PSD / CDS-PP, which went beyond the demands of the troika. Now, this path of densification of better conditions and of greater stability for Portuguese workers is the recognition that the word given has been the word honored. These are examples of the progressive increase in the national minimum wage, the extraordinary updating of pensions, the amendment of the regulations on the transmission of establishments with greater protection of workers, the full replacement of wages and holiday and Christmas allowances, the replacement of 35 hours and the defrosting of careers in the Public Administration, the replacement of holidays, the compulsory increase of joy, by the father, a parental leave from 15 to 20 working days, the reduction of the maximum duration of contracts in the certain term from three to two years and of contracts in the uncertain term from six to four years, the elimination of the individual hour bank, the period of 35 working days as a limit for the publication of the extension gates and as a way to encourage collective bargaining and now to avoid abuses in the deregulation of labour relations, a brake on the expiry of collective agreements. It's not advertising for television, Mrs Lina Lopes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u239	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u240	And, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, it's overwhelming, it's not scary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u241	Scary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u242	It is the root of liberal policies and right-wing policies! in this way to combat precariousness, the PS refused to fire public officials. In the reverse way, thousands of workers were integrated with those who recognized themselves as inadequate and who constituted permanent needs of the services and strengthened the public school, the social state and the National Health Service. Here we come, we are sure that it will be possible to continue to do even more and better, that it will be possible to correct and make different at every moment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It should be noted that in 2019, and following an agreement reached with the majority of the social partners, amendments to the Labour Code were adopted in order to combat precariousness and promote collective bargaining. As a result, none of these bills today under discussion fall within the commitments made by the Government in its programme. However, by not closing the door to all discussions aimed at combating job insecurity and strengthening labour rights, we have, in relation to collective dismissal, other issues which must be considered in the framework of the legal regime, such as the obligation to communicate the intention of collective dismissal to the administration of work or the imperative of the realization of the information and negotiation phase, in the absence of representative structures of workers or ad hoc committees. These are subjects that require articulated reflection. In addition, the Government is working on the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which will be presented by the end of the month and will serve as the basis for any amendments to the existing legislation which are deemed necessary, any change prior to that moment understood as inopportunity and disqualification. I shall finish, Mr. President, Mr. Members, reaffirming that the Socialist Party has always fought for the dignity of work in Portugal. The PS, as a promoter and advocate of collective bargaining, believes that social agreements should be respected. It was in social dialogue, and after agreement with the social partners that the Government and the Socialist Party promoted changes to the Labour Code in order to combat precariousness, to reduce the levels of segmentation of the labour market and to promote greater dynamism of collective bargaining, while at the same time strengthening the Act (Working Conditions Authority), fulfilling for the first time the ratios required by the ILO (International Labour Organisation ). In 2021, once again at the initiative of the Socialist Party, we are promoting a debate on the future of work, including, among others, telework, the right to turn off and work on digital platforms, which we intend to translate into legislative amendments that guarantee greater protection and dignity of work in Portugal. The collective dismissal regime cannot be broken down by a joint analysis of other possible changes or densifications to labour legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u243	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u244	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just seen a moment today when we all need to learn what it is like to be a Parliamentary Party of the Socialist Party: it is a repertoire of what has been done so far as a descriptive miracle, thanks to the partners for the extraordinary legislation they bring today, saying that it is always an open issue, a question through which one has to look at the future, a pressing issue and which brings up to the great agreement they have made in 2015. Only not! In fact, it will not support anything, it will not support any of these proposals because there is a certain legal stability to defend. Mr President, it almost does not seem, but it is the same Socialist Party, which, on the law of nationality, has already tabled a number of amendments! Nor does it seem to the Socialist Party that, a little while ago, had one law for the independents, last year had another and now has another law. [[PS protests.]] If the Socialist Party had said what it believes today, it would come here and tell its partners the following: « We cannot simply revoke a presumption of the Labour Code ». The Supreme Court itself has already said so, and it would be serious for you to say so. The Socialist Party would also say that the rules of compensation cannot be changed abruptly for another reason: the European Union would not allow it. One of our problems today is labour rigidity and market rigidity. You know that, too, I know, we all know.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u245	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u246	I will finish, Mr. President. But you need courage to say that to your partners. The Socialist Party's Member then makes a repertoire of the 'country of wonders' to then say 'here they take nothing, from here they have nothing'. It is too bad for you, sir! It's better to be direct to your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u247	It's like arriving at the Azores, which says one thing and does another!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u248	To close the debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lina Lopes, considering that in her speech she referred to women in a situation of unemployment, I begin by saying that the overwhelming majority of workers in a situation of collective dismissal of the Eurest are women. There are 238 women in 262 workers, who go to unemployment, who receive the minimum wage and who will be fired, whether or not they want to challenge their jobs. You also made these changes and wagered in this labour legislation. [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] Workers have cuts in the value of their compensation because in 2012 you introduced these cuts into labour law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u250	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u251	The workers of Eurest have cuts in their compensation for the responsibility of the PSD and CDS-PP! [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] Madam Member, we already know that workers cannot count on the PSD for the CFP proposal to be approved. We know that, as it was clear in the speech that the honourable Member has made here. In any case, as he also spoke in social consultation, it was important here to remember that, when it was to cut wages, the PSD did not need to go through social consultation, which, when it was to cut rights in labour law, also ignored social consultation. Mr Fernando José, in these matters you cannot stay on the wall: either you are on an effective path to strengthening workers' rights or you are on the side of the patronage. The question is very simple when it comes to the replacement of workers' compensation entitlements, with regard to restoring one month for each year of work of workers, as regards ensuring that all working time that workers have at home account for compensation, because today the maximum is 12 years. in this respect, what matters to realize is which side the PS will be positioned when the PCP proposal is voted on. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even to finish, I want to say that COVID has had broad backs for a lot and has served as a pretext to increase layoffs, to aggravate precariousness and exploitation and also to withdraw rights and wages. Work problems in our country are very prior to the situation of COVID, COVID has only made them worse, and the problems that exist exist exist for policy options of PSD and CDS, and PS, which do not want to reverse or repeal the serious standards of the labour code. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u252	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of agenda item 7, we shall now begin the votes, which are many, and there is one of the points that has an additional script that is complex. So we all have to be careful and I can't use the speed of LMP2 resistance champions because circumstances do not allow me. Let's start with the Vote Project No 508 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Camilo Guerreiro Ferreira, which Mrs. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Sofia Araújo, will read. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last March 17 at the age of 85, a victim of illness, Camilo Guerreiro Ferreira, born on May 22, 1935, in the parish of Santa Maria Maior, in Viana do Castelo. Camilo Guerreiro Ferreira was a member of the CDS in the II Legislature, elected by the circle of Viana do Castelo, a district where he has been militiaed since 1979 and where he has been a prominent local leader. But his activity goes far beyond politics, referring, among other areas, to have been a remembered teacher of the high school of Viana do Castelo, where he obtained some praise. He was also the main designer of the Autonomous Roads Board. Camilo Guerreiro Ferreira was a strong driving force and associative leader, directed or helped to erect several civic, cultural or sports associations. A man of outstanding humanist and personality, he did not leave any indifferent person with whom he went through his life. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expressed its deep regret at the death of Camilo Guerreiro Ferreira and presented to the family its heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u254	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on the draft vote No 510 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PS ) — I regret the death of Antonio Dias Baptista, whose reading will be made by Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last March 13 passed away, the lawyer, Member of this House and this bench and former councillor of the City Council of Lisbon, Antonio Manuel Dias Baptista. Born in Lisbon, in 1958, António Dias Baptista dedicated his life to public service, through political intervention, the responsibilities of local authorities and participation in the association movement. He was a member of the Assembly of the Republic, elected by the Socialist Party in the VIII legislature, between 1999 and 2002, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, of the Ethics Committee, among other possible committees and committees of inquiry, always with lightness and dedication to work. As a member of the Assembly of the Republic its qualities were praised by all, well evidenced in the role he played in the parliamentary commission of inquiry to the tragic accident of the Entre-Rios bridge. In the PS, his usual party, Dias Baptista was founder and coordinator of the Help section, head of the Federation of the Lisbon Urban Area of the Socialist Party, where he chaired the Jurisdiction Commission, was a member of the National Commission of the PS and, for 14 years, executive director of the Lisbon Council of the Socialist Party. As an author in Lisbon, in addition to the years in which he led the municipal seat of the PS in the municipal assembly and the period during which he served as a councillor, Dias Baptista was a member of the Assembly of Freguesia da Aide and, in the context of the Lisbon administrative reform, chaired the Installation Commission of the Freguesia de Santa Maria Maior. He was currently President of the Assembly of Freguesia de Alcantara and Vice-President of the Association of Volunteer Firefighters of Aid, positions with enormous dedication and brightness, competence and permanent satisfaction. Baptist days always loved their city and served it was always their purpose. Man of principle, not only in his civic life but also in his personal and family life, respected by his friends and political comrades as well as by his opponents, leaves in all an endless longing. And allow me, Mr President, a personal word on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, of all of us, that we bear witness to a strong personality, dedication to public life and nobleness of spirit, which will certainly be missed. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to the former Parliamentarian António Dias Baptista and his role in the civic life of his city, and addresses his family, friends and also to his fellow banking colleagues his heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u256	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute's silence for these two votes. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on the draft vote No 492 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and signed by a Member of the PSD ) — Congratulations on the consecration of Filipe Albuquerque as a European champion and the world of resistance in LMP2, which gives us the honour to be present in the galleries. For your reading I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « The driver Filipe Albuquerque won the 2020 edition of the World Resistance Championship in the category LMP2 ( Le Mans Prototype ), which adds to the victory also achieved in 2020 of the mythical 24 Hours of Le Mans. For Coimbra's driver the year 2020 was fantastic, as Europe's champion was also sealed in the same category. The long career of Filipe Albuquerque began 28 years ago in karting, only 7 years old. His outstanding career continued with his debut at the National Cadetes Championship in 1996, having a sacred vice champion and champion of the Portugal Cup in 1998 at the wheel by the team Norma Team. Titles achieved increased in 2002 with 2. the place in the Italian Open and as European vice champion. After 11 years in the karting, as a professional, she joined the prestigious Redbull Junior Team in 2005 and the following year wins all the championships where she went, first of all in the Renault 2.0 North European Formula, as well as in the Renault 2.0 European Formula. With regard to so many victories it is not surprising that he was elected pilot of the year of Redbull Junior Team in 2006. In 2007 he led for the first time a Formula 1 of Redbull Racing and in 2008 he joined the A1 GP ( Grand Prix ), defending the colors of Portugal. He also passed the DTM ( Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters ) and the Italian GT ( Gran Turismo) championship as an official Audi pilot before dedicating himself to the resistance tests, winning in 2010 the Race of Champions. In 2013 he won the 24 Hour Daytona premiere with Audi, where he would win again in 2018, and from 2014 he began to compete the European Le Mans Series, the American Resistance Championship and the World Cup of Resistance. The wager in the resistance tests, initiated in 2014, came to bear fruit, of which in 2020 stand out the victory in the 24 Hours of Le Mans in the LMP2 class, winning at the FIA World Endurance Championship (International Automobile Federation) and in the European Le Mans Series their titles. On January 31, 2021, Filipe Albuquerque took once again the name and flag of Portugal by winning the 24 Hours of Daytona, the first test of the American resistance championship, one of the most emblematic of the USA, the first edition of which took place in 1962, on the premiere by the Wayne Taylor Racing team. This victory reinforces the good results recently achieved and reiterates its excellent quality as a professional pilot, quality that is widely recognized, nationally and internationally, which led to the fact that on 4 February 2021, it had been meritably appreciated with the rank of Commander of the Order of Merit. throughout his career, the pilot of Coimbra revealed himself a true ambassador of Portugal, with a succession of victories in the most diverse modalities, becoming one of the most admired and respected sportsmen of the world car because of its speed, consistency and versatility. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the consecration of Filipe Albuquerque as a European champion and the world of resistance in LMP2, recognizing the greater dimension of its fact that Portugal, as well as the sporting results, which are a cause of pride for all Portuguese, elevate the name of Portugal and certainly inspire the international ambition of our citizens in all professional quadrants and in particular in sport. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u258	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will now vote on the draft vote No 501 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by members of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean and to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean and signed by Members of the PSD and PS ) — Greetings by the Mediterranean Day. Mrs Sofia Araújo will please read the draft vote. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « March 21 is adopted as the Day of the Mediterranean since 2008. In 2021, this date has as its theme Leadership, responsibility and collaboration in times of COVID-19. The emergency caused by the COVID-19 pandemic also reached the Mediterranean in all dimensions. to the various problems that have lasted for years, now aggravated, such as armed conflicts and terrorism, lives lost at sea, conditions for the reception of refugees and migrants and climate change, the crisis has added others, of an indisputable urgency not only to the level of public health but also to the worsening of economic and social conditions. A global pandemic crisis cannot be managed by uncoordinated measures and individualist conduct that conflict and reinforce the uncertainty and future risks, detrimental to the path to the resilience of the global system. We must fight for a strategic and collective vision based on a responsible common action, which enables citizens to recover health, safety and emotional stability, and economic and social conditions. The signatories, members of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, welcome the strengthened participation of the Portuguese Parliament in these inter-parliamentary dialogue spaces. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, therefore decides: 1 — To call on the States of both the Mediterranean shores to adopt concrete policies to combat the pandemic, focusing on access to the health care of their populations, on a comprehensive and equitable vaccination and on social support to the most vulnerable. 2 — Call on Parliamentary assemblies to promote cooperation in the region, whose future rests, decisively, on combating the pandemic and on promoting the well-being of their citizens, as a way to generate economic, social and cultural wealth. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u260	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always difficult to choose between the draft votes which must be read and which must not be read, but there are draft votes which must even be read. This is the case of the next, the Voting Project No. 511 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Greetings for the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On 21 March 1960, in the context of the fight against apartheid in South Africa, the massacre of 69 people by the police took place in Sharpeville. A few years later, in 1966, this date was chosen by the United Nations to mark the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. Despite having elapsed so long since the first day marked as a day of struggle, racism, discrimination based on prejudice and hatred, it remains an instrument of oppression that serves to perpetuate the historically built injustices and divide peoples. That is why we need to continue this struggle. We know that the violence of discrimination continues to affect thousands of people living in Portugal, being racialized, migrants and refugees, the main targets. The Commission's data on equality and against racial discrimination ( ICCDR ) denounce the persistence of racist manifestations within institutions, public services and in the most diverse contexts of society, preventing access to fundamental rights, calling into question human rights and the Constitution itself of the Portuguese Republic, which enshrines in its provisions the plan of equality and justice that the Portuguese people have conquered with the April Revolution. at a time when the world and, in particular, our country undergo economic and social difficulties arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, we should be particularly vigilant about the worsening inequality and social exclusion caused by prejudice and ethnic-racial discrimination. The Assembly of the Republic reaffirms that: 1. The commitment to achieve the goal of equality at all levels, raising the social awareness of our society; 2. a firm intention to use all tools to counter racial discrimination and on the basis of origin, starting with education and ensuring decent working and living conditions; 3. The need to call on all people to take an active stand against any form of discrimination and to ensure solidarity with each and every one of the victims, so that no crime of racism or xenophobia is devalued. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u262	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted and the CH abstained.]] Mrs. Members, we shall now vote, in general, on the Proposal for a Law No 78 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the cessation of the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines adopted under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the special vote on the Bill No 78 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), beginning with the vote on Article 1. o. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] With regard to the proposal submitted by the PS to add an Article 1. the -A was requested by the PSD to vote separately in Article 3 ( 1 ) and ( 7 ). the Law No 1 -A / 2020, of 19 March. Let us begin by voting on paragraph 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: 1 — Until 31 December 2021, the meetings of the deliberative and executive bodies of local authorities, inter-municipal entities and their conferences of representatives, committees and working groups may be carried out by videoconferencing or other digital media or at an appropriate distance, as well as by mixed modalities that combine the face-to-face format with distance media.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u263	Let us now vote on paragraph 7. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] [[It is as follows: 7 — For the purposes of Article 132(2) of Law No 75-B/2020 of 31 December which approved the State budget for 2021, the provision of accounts at the ordinary meetings of the deliberative bodies of the local authorities scheduled for April may be held until 30 June 2021.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u264	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 2. o — Additive to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. With no objection, we shall vote together in Article 6 ( 1 ) and ( a ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 6 ( 2 ( b ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[(b) without prejudice to paragraph 5, by means of appropriate distance communication, including teleconferencing, video-call or other equivalent, where they cannot be made in accordance with the preceding paragraph and their performance by this way does not call into question the assessment and assessment of the evidence to be produced in such proceedings, except in criminal proceedings, the performance of statements by the defendant, the assistant and the civil parties and the testimony of witnesses.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u265	The vote under Article 6 ( 2 ( b ) shall therefore be adversely affected. the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. We continue with the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 6 ( 2 ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: The final hearings and other proceedings that matter the hearing of people, are carried out:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u266	Let us then vote on the body of Article 6 ( 2 ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote on Article 6 ( 3 ) shall follow. the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] With no objection, we shall vote together Article 6 ( 6 ( a) and ( b ) ( 4 ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Let us now vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 6 ( 4 ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and PAN abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The other proceedings which required the physical presence of the parties, their representatives or other procedural actors shall be carried out:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u267	Let us then vote on the body of Article 6 ( 4 ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u268	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u269	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u270	Mr President, then without opposition, we could vote together on Article 6 (a) and (b ) paragraphs 5 and 6 and Article 6 ( 7 ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u271	If there is no objection, then we shall vote together in Article 6 ( 6 ) and ( a) and ( b ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 6 ( 7 ( c ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] [[(c) the acts of execution of the delivery of the leased place, within the scope of the clearance actions, of the special clearance procedures and of the processes for the delivery of the leased immovable property, where the leaser may be placed in a situation of fragility due to lack of his own housing or for other compelling social reason;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u272	We shall then vote on Article 6 ( 7 ( c ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE and abstentions from PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] With no objection, we shall vote together in Article 6 ( 7 ( d) and ( e ) and in Article 6 ( 7 ). the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote on the proposal submitted by BE is followed by the addition of a new paragraph 8 to Article 6. the E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 8 — For the purposes of point (c) of the previous paragraph, it is assumed that the tenant will be in a fragile position because of lack of his own housing or for another compelling social reason, and this presumption may be illusory only by virtue of judicial decision.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u273	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 6 ( 8, 9, 10, and 11 ). o-E of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 6. o-F to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 6f Time Application The provisions of paragraph 7(c) and paragraph 8 both of the preceding article reverse its effects on 13 March 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u274	We shall proceed to the vote on the body of Article 2. o. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for an addendum to Article 2. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2a Deadlines for the imposition of remedies The time limits for the appeal, the appeal of nullities or requests for rectification or reform of the decision, of final decisions made before the entry into force of Law No 4-B/2021 of 1 February are deemed to have been suspended, either by courts of 1st instance or by higher courts.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u275	We moved on to Article 3. o. We shall vote together on paragraph 1, points ( a ), ( b ) and the body of Article 3 ( 2 ) and 3 ( 3 ). Article 4. o. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on the proposal put forward by the NAP for the addition of Article 4. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4a Interpretation rule Article 6b(5)(b) of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March in the wording given by Law No 4-B/2021 of 1 February should be interpreted as meaning that the time limits for appeal, nullities or requests for rectification or reform of the decision, relating to final decisions made before the entry into force of Law No 4-B/2021 of 1 February, by courts of first instance or by higher courts, shall be considered suspended.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u276	We shall vote for Article 5. o. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 6. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Rodrigues and CDS-PP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 6 Entry into force This law shall enter into force on 13 April 2021.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u277	We shall vote on the proposal from the PS to amend Article 6. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] [[This law shall enter into force on 6 April 2021.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u278	Mrs. Members, the vote on Article 6. He gets hurt. The overall final vote of the Bill No 78 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the cessation of the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines adopted under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 684 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Amend the framework rules for the Local Economy Support Programme ( PAEL ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] The initiative goes down to 13. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 693 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — ensures that the rules for non-compliance and termination of the Financial Adjustment Plan are amended within the framework of the Local Economy Support Programme by amending Law No 43/2012 of 28 August 2012. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, the PCP, the PEV, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote on draft resolution No 740 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( CH) — For the support of the Azorian tourist information guides which are in the scenario of true social and economic peril by the action of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u279	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u280	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u281	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u282	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u283	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u284	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u285	Mr President, it is to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u286	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will vote on draft resolution 753 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — By taking measures to protect local trade and restoration during the state of emergency. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 990 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Reopening of hairdressers and barbers from next 22 February, establishing a set of measures to prevent infection with COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u287	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u288	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u289	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u290	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No. 676 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PSD ) — Exceptional and temporary regime in the context of the epidemiological situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and by the disease COVID-19, marking the general elections for local authorities to be held in 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 696 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensures the appropriate conditions for the elections of local authorities of 2021 in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, making the first amendment to Organic Law No 3 / 2020 of 11 November, and the tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and IL, and abstentions against CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 762 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — By updating the electoral books. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CH and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Rodrigues.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1145 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Terrestrial cessation of Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December approving the general waste management regime, the legal regime for landfilling waste and amending the regime for the management of specific waste flows, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 849, 2018 / 850, 2018 / 851 and 2018 / 852. [ Parliamentary assessment No 37 / XIV / 2. a]. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, BE, PAN, CH and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] The general vote of Bill No 68 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Returns amounts and calculation rules on termination of the contract of employment and dismissal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 50 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Repeals amendments to the Labour Code introduced in the period of the troika which came to facilitate lay-offs and reduce compensation due to workers, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 692 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Repeals the presumption of acceptance of collective dismissal due to acceptance of compensation paid by the employer, making the sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from IL.]] We shall vote for a request by BE, requesting the resignation of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 704 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Repeals the legal presumption of acceptance of dismissal for objective reasons when the employer provides compensation to the worker ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 714 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Change the amounts and criteria for calculating compensation in the event of termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1027 / XIV / 2. a — Recommends that the Government give priority to recruiting the human resources necessary for the operation of the prison system and protecting it. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 936 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of the mountain ranges throughout the national territory. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH, IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 947 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote the creation of a single European database for the registration and identification of pet animals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the PEV, the CH and the IL.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution 878 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government improve the ‘Sustainable Buildings’ programme and direct it towards combating energy poverty. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered BE and Deputy Cristina Rodrigues.]] We generally vote for Resolution Project No. 889 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to combat energy poverty. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We now have the vote on draft resolution No 904 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government establish a financial mechanism to support the energy efficiency of buildings and to combat energy poverty. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of PSD, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 1012 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — The implementation of a programme to combat energy poverty. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the PS and the CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1061 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen incentives for improving energy efficiency in housing and combating energy poverty. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We generally vote for Resolution Project No 1084 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat energy poverty. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and IL and the abstention of the CH.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1097 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends to the Government the Financial and Technical Strengthening of the Programme "Sustainable Buildings" and the allocation of "Energy Credits" to the most vulnerable families as a form of combating energy poverty. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the PS and the abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u291	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u292	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u293	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the PSD Parliamentary Group will make a statement of vote on all these energy poverty projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u294	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 978 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Social emergency measures for public higher education students. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We voted for Resolution Project No 1026 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government draw up an integrated plan for early preparation of the return to school contexts. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the PS and the CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u295	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u296	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u297	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u298	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 1024 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recognizes that the people uighure in China has gone and is being subjected to genocide. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP and votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 731 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a national strategy for the prevention and treatment of anaemia. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 961 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to combat obesity. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 1035 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to prevent obesity. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote together in general on Resolution Projects Nos 1085 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to prevent and treat obesity and 1096 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — proposes a strategy to promote the prevention and treatment of obesity and the maintenance of adequate weight. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention were adopted.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1015 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the extension of the deadline for fuel management work in 2021. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the PS.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 1042 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures for child-friendly justice. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We voted for Resolution Project No. 973 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Integration of the Vouga Line into the programme to support tariff reduction in public transport. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1075 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By defending SPdH Groundforce and its workers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u299	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u300	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u301	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u302	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote on Resolution Project No 1087 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — For the public control of SPdH-Groundforce to ensure the protection of workers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u303	Mr President, I would also like to speak for the same purpose to inform you that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u304	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u305	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u306	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u307	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will present a written statement of vote on this vote and the previous vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u308	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now have the vote on draft resolution No 844 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently present the study on the definition of conditions for access to early retirement for persons with disabilities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We voted for Resolution Project No. 1100 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By conducting a fair internal and external competition, which corresponds to the needs of schools and respects the rights of teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We also vote in general on Resolution Project No. 1114 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By conducting competitions that meet the needs of schools and do not exclude teachers. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 1122 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — By conducting a teacher contest that best responds to the needs of teaching staff in schools. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the PS.]] The diploma is lower than 8.The Commission. We now have the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on Bills Nos 214 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens’ Initiative) — Drug treatment assisted post mortem, 223 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Seventh Amendment to Law No. 32 / 2006 of 26 July, extending the situations of post-mortem insemination, 237 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Assisted Medicine Processing Scheme, allowing post mortem insemination to perform a clearly established parental project ( seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ) and 572 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Determines the circumstances in which post-mortem insemination is permitted and amends Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July on assisted medicinal product procreation. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, CDS-PP and CH and abstentions by 5 PS (Bruno Aragon, Eurídice Pereira, Fernando Anastácio, Filipe Neto Brandão and Porfirio Silva).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u309	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u310	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u311	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that I have just sent a written vote statement by electronic means.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u312	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u313	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u314	You have the floor, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u315	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will also present a statement of vote on the subject which we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u316	Mr. André Ventura, you also have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u317	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u318	Mr. Bruno Aragão, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u319	Mr President, I would also like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the subject which we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u320	Mr Porfirio Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u321	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u322	Mrs. Sandra Pereira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u323	Mr President, it is also to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the matter which has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u324	Mrs. Members, the announcements for the submission of explanations of vote are recorded in the Minutes. Mrs. Members, the Proposal for a Law No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) was withdrawn by the author in favor of the replacement text. Therefore, withdrawal from this initiative will not be the subject of a vote. We therefore generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on Bill No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other tax benefits and creates an extraordinary time-counting measure within the IRC. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and PSD, against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote is followed by a request by the PSD, a lawyer, the plenary, the vote in the speciality of Article 3. the proposal of Law No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have a debate on the speciality for which each parliamentary group has two minutes. First of all, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the process of selling Trás-os-Montes dams we know that there are strong suspicions of abusive tax planning, of possible tax fraud and, at least, what we can say is that there are many doubts about how the business was set up. There are many doubts about the government's role in the business, in which EDP cashed EUR 2, EUR 2 billion, not yet paid taxes. We know that this business is already under investigation in the Public Prosecutor's Office. We also know now that the Tax Authority is investigating this business, particularly as regards non-payment of seal tax. We also know that one of the main doubts about this business is precisely the standard that EDP used to proceed as it has done. What we also know is that the government in the State budget for 2020 has changed a rule of Article 60. the Statute for Tax Benefits ( EBF ), and it is on this new wording of Article 60 ( 1 ( b ). the, approved by the State Budget for 2020 and which at the time the PSD voted against, which there are many suspicions, because it may be on the basis of EDP's argument not to pay the seal tax. It could be at the base, which doesn't mean we're defending that. Let us not defend, of course. This is a strange little change, at least strange, to use the expressions that have been used recently and which raise many doubts. But strangely enough for all of us, this proposal, which restates the previous legislation, was not adopted yesterday in the Committee on Budgets and Finance. The Left Block, the PCP and the CDS abstained and we know that we cannot count on the Socialist Party for anything, much less for this sort of thing, of course. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u326	Today again they have the opportunity to approve our proposal and reintroduce legislation as it existed before the 2020 State Budget. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] Let me tell you, Mr Duarte Alves, that, having many doubts about this norm and having the opportunity to change, no one can understand that the Left Block, the PCP and the CDS feel side by side and do not assume their responsibilities. It is not enough to tear clothes in the name of transparency. It is also necessary for the Left Block, the PCP and the CDS to be consistent and to approve here, today and now, the amendment which, at least, creates ambiguities. At least! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u327	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, although the EDP has invoked Article 60. in order not to pay taxes, even if the Government has amended Article 60. to favour EDP, EDP is not entitled to that exemption. Assume that you have and amend this article only favours EDP and its claims, in the event that the Tax Authority has to assemble.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u329	That's the PSD game!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u330	Secondly, although the EDP has invoked Article 60. the, this article is the end point of an aggressive tax planning process. Amend Article 60. it would not guarantee that EDP would pay the seal tax, because the original problem is in the claim that this is a restructuring and, at this point, the PSD does not affect its tax amendment. Thirdly, the PSD withdraws an exemption from the Seal Tax Code through EBF, but creates another by exempting increases in seal tax capital. Where to close a window, open another window for any other tax planning scheme. These three reasons lead us to conclude that this PSD maneuver cannot be to take it seriously, and I regret that the PSD has. We have been together in the denunciation of this business, we have shared criticisms of the government in this business, we have shared suspicions about this business. This movement has no reason to be, has no weighting or any result in this process. And so I'm very sorry that the PSD brought it this way. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u331	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the issue of the sale of dams, the position of the CFP is clear, and we say - since February 2020, more than a year ago, when we presented a draft resolution to prevent the authorization of the government of this business between EDP and Engie, which reads the national interest. The PSD, which today advocates this standard, voted against this PCP initiative a year ago, which would have prevented the ruinous business for the national electricity system, for the management of flow and freshwater reserves and the aggravating tax mounted by EDP and Engie.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u333	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u334	In view of the evidence that has been added over the course of this year, since our proposal, the CFP has again presented a new initiative, because at the moment there is only one thing to do, which is to use the prerogative that the Government has to prevent this sale and this business of EUR 2200 million. Mr Afonso Oliveira and Mrs. PSD Members, how is the PSD going to vote on this initiative this time, knowing everything you know today? Will you approve the CFP proposal, which recommends that the Government prevent this business? That's the question here. contrary to the PCP initiative, the proposal that the PSD today advocate would not solve anything. It is not because of this amendment of the wording that the EDP has or is not entitled to tax exemption. On the contrary, making this amendment could now give arguments to EDP to validate its position. We are available to change the provisions of the business restructuring scheme to prevent these types of schemes with our feet and heads. For political artifacts, which do not solve anything, they do not hold with us. As for this business, we're still going in time to stop it. The Government can and should do so to safeguard the national interest. The CFP will not fail to demand, with consequent initiatives and not with initiatives such as those brought here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u335	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Afonso Oliveira, what we are discussing today is a proposal from the PSD to repeal Article 60. that of EBF, a question of strictly fiscal matter. What the PSD wants is nothing more than to reprisal a norm of a tax that has not existed for more than 10 years, which shows a complete lack of rigour and study on these matters. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u337	It was good to look at the legislation. In fact, I realize something put at 25. the time, at the end of the debate of another, could not give any other result that was not the same. What the PSD is doing is re-establishing a tax inequality, which harms real business restructuring, which, in particular, has leases, creates obstacles and, indeed, harms Portuguese business fabric. This is the result of your proposal. The PSD has an obligation to technically justify why this proposal in particular and not to go around other issues, but does not. in this concrete framework, the PSD wants to increase the taxation of Portuguese companies that want to restructure... Furthermore, the PSD never presented any concrete justification for what it wants. And it is notorious and strange that the PSD, in a pandemic framework, is placed as the only party that ultimately brings in concrete a proposal for an increase in taxes. In fact, that's what's on the table. Mr Afonso Oliveira, once and for all - and let us be serious - this proposal is not intended to resolve a fiscal issue, it is intended to take a strictly populist position behind another debate. We have room for it, but it is not in this particular norm. Mr President, in these matters, it is time to be responsible. That is what we advise you: responsibility and seriousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u338	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I use the floor to record three relatively rare facts. The first is to agree to the Left Block. In fact, the amendment proposed by the PSD resolves very little and much worse a series of truly worthy restructurings, which would not be covered if this amendment were adopted. Then I want to record the historical moment when someone from the PS protested for an increase in taxes. They were using the argument that this proposal was raising taxes and that this could not be. It is registered, Mr Fernando Anastácio. It will be-CL - very useful for me in the future. Finally, I want to confess that I have read this text three or four times and I still do not understand Portuguese, which must be something that is also unique. It is not possible to understand what is meant by « transmission or establishment of buildings, capital increase or assets of a capital company required for restructuring operations ». I don't understand Portuguese. So either this resumes the writing that was already here, and it's a writing problem that has been going on for decades, or someone has been wrong in the copy folder. I would therefore like to register, in Parliament, these three moments. Despite the early hours, I thought it was worth it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u340	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, responding to the challenge, I would like to say that we will not change the position we have defined in committee, which has been defined, and well, in my opinion, by the Coordinator, Cecilia Meireles. With regard to what is at stake here, I would just like to leave two notes, which I think are relevant and which have already gone through other interventions. As a first note, I would say that the PSD, when proposing this amendment, would base-CL on two assumptions. The first is that this amendment of the law allowed what happened, because otherwise it would not make sense to alter it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u342	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u343	The second is that the amendment of the law would have some kind of effect, possibly retroactive, and could solve the problem in question, which are two things that do not happen, obviously. Therefore, this matter is not resolved, it is not clarified and, to the limit, it is up to the competent authorities, the Tax Authority, to come to clarify it. That is why we maintain our position in this area, because — and I agree with Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo — the reading of this intention can even have the negative effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u344	Oh, can you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u345	... to legitimize what happened in the context of restructuring, which obviously does not make sense nor is it certainly what the PSD itself wants.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u346	Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not up to me to be a PSD defence lawyer, but I must say the following: Mr Fernando Anastácio knows as well as I do not have any reprisination at all. The amendment proposed by the PSD has a meaning that could indeed be further clarified, particularly within the temporal scope of application, but does not cause any reprisal, nor does it have that effect in criminal law. The fact is that if the big question is that EDP could now come to claim that, as this is the rule under which it had this benefit, such would be the proof that it did well, this, as you know, is a question that even in particular could be worked and directed, so that is the meaning that we really wanted to give to the proposal. That is, if there is a problem with the seal tax, if there is a problem that has generated operations like this, we have today, not tomorrow, the opportunity to correct. And that was the political signal we should have given. But there is another argument, Mr President. If it is true that the great issue we have here is that this is a tax amendment which must not be made here at this time, and that we will certainly have another time to do this debate and to know whether or not it is true that the Minister has been warned of what was going to happen and nothing has done—he has not handed over to the Public Prosecutor or to the Tax Authority, nor does it cease to be true that this is a perfectly alterable matter at the time we are. It is not in the most perfect technical sense, but today is the time to give a political signal of what we really want to change, and that is what we should do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u348	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing this little debate. We shall now proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 3. the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other tax benefits and creates an extraordinary time-counting measure within the IRC. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD and CH and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3 [...] Articles 3, 28, 36a, 52 and 60 of the EBF are replaced by the following: ‘(...) Article 60 [...] 1 — [...]: (a) [...]; (b) Exemption from the seal tax in respect of the transmission of the assets referred to in the preceding paragraph, or the establishment, increase in capital or assets of a capital company necessary for restructuring operations or cooperation agreements; (c) [...]. 2 —... 3 —... 4 —... 5 —... 6 —.... 7 —... 8 —.... 9 —.... 10 —.... 11 —.... 12 —.... 13 —... 14 —.... 15 —....’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u349	We will now vote on a proposal by the PS to amend Article 8. the same replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against BE and PAN, and abstentions from PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[Article 8 Entry into force and production of effects 1 — Without prejudice to the following numbers, this law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. 2 — This law shall take effect from 1 January 2021, with the exception of the extension of Article 58(3) and the extraordinary measure provided for in Article 6, the effects of which shall be retrofitted as at 1 January 2020. Paul and Paul were present at that meeting in Ephesus....]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u350	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes made, in the speciality, in committee, concerning the same replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The following is the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on Bill No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other tax benefits and creates an extraordinary time-counting measure within the IRC. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and PSD, against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u351	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u352	Please, Mr. Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u353	Mr President, I just want to announce that we will present a written vote statement on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u354	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u355	Mr. President, with regard to Bill No. 78 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the cessation of the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines adopted under the COVID-19 disease pandemic, which we voted before, we wanted to request the final drafting waiver and the deadline for complaints.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u356	There is no objection, Mr President, that your oral request is approved. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u357	Mr President, I just wanted to confirm, since I was absent from the Chamber at the time of the vote, that I have already given the Bureau the indication that the vote on the Liberal Initiative on the renewal of the state of emergency was against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u358	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u359	Mr President, I am also sorry with regard to the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other tax benefits and creates an extraordinary time-counting measure within the IRC, which we just voted on, we wanted to request the final drafting waiver and the deadline for claims.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u360	Mrs. Members, having no objection, it is considered approved, or deferred, in bureaucratic language, this request. I would now like to ask Mrs Sofia Araújo to inform us. Members who were present at this plenary session by videoconferencing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u361	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that you were present by video conference. PSD Members Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques, both of Madeira's electoral circle.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-03-25.u362	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I still have seven pages to read, and I'm going to avenge myself,... [[Laughing.]] ... which correspond to the agenda for the next plenary session, which is held on 31 March. I would like to draw attention to the start of the session at 14 a.m. on the first item of the agenda, there is a debate, with the participation of the Government, on Portugal's participation in permanent structural cooperation, in accordance with Article 42 ( 6 ). Article 46. the Treaty on European Union [ under Article 4(1) ( b ). the Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union ]. of the second point are political declarations. In the third point we will consider jointly the following legislative initiatives: Draft Resolution No 949 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Adaptation of the rules of access to the APOIAR measure to companies that continue to work ; Draft Resolution No 970 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government allow access to the programs APOIAR + SIMPLES and APOIAR RENDAS to entrepreneurs on an individual basis without employees in charge; Draft Law No 712 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the exceptional and temporary measure of the admissibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts in the context of responses to the epidemic crisis of COVID-19 ; Draft Law No 716 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Change the deadlines for holding general assemblies; Draft Law No 717 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the extension and extension of bank moratoriums; Draft Resolution No. 979 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Measures to support the recovery of the economy; Draft Resolution No 1038 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By mobilizing support to shopkeepers of commercial centres in the context of the fight against the epidemic of COVID-19 ; Draft Resolution No 1039 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By reviewing the regime for the functioning of economic activities of goods and services in the context of the fight against the epidemic of COVID-19 ; Draft Resolution No 1040 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Improving measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in responding to the impacts of the COVID-19 epidemic ; Draft Resolution No 1041 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establish the network of contact and support to microenterprises and individual entrepreneurs for access to response measures for the epidemic by COVID-19 ; and Draft Resolution No 1051 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends that the Government extend the APOIAR programme to individual enterprises and entrepreneurs who have been excluded from the measures of that programme. In the fourth point, together with the Bills No. 681 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the prohibition on the practice of shooting at the flight of captive birds for the sole purpose of serving as a target and the creation of a counter-ordering regime by amending Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September 703 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Prohibits the practice of shooting animals created in captivity and released to serve as target in hunting camps and shooting events ( ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August and fourth amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September ), 735 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — prohibits the use of live animals for the sport of shooting with a hunting weapon and 737 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Amends the fourth Act No 92 / 95 of 12 September by restricting exclusively sporting practices that cause death to animals and the Draft Resolution No 583 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The inclusion of priority protection for animals in the national civil protection plan. In the fifth point, the joint assessment of the following legislative initiatives will be carried out: Draft Law No 677 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Decreases the maximum number of students allowed by class; Resolution Project No. 966 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of non-invasive testing methods for children and young people in return to present education; Draft Resolution No 968 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — On the review of national examinations, taking into account the inequalities revealed by distance education; Petition No 126 / XIV / 1. a ( Ana Rita Lagoas Dias et al.) — Reduction of the number of students per class from 2020 / 2021 ; Bill No. 695 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Sets a maximum number of students per class; Bill No. 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to support students in the context of school social action; Draft Law No 739 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes measures to reduce the number of students per class aimed at improving the teaching-learning process; Draft Law No 740 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes measures for the elimination of examinations by establishing a transitional scheme for completion of secondary education and access to higher education in school year 2020 / 2021 ; Draft Resolution No 420 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government maintain national final examinations for the approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education and that it use spaces under the height of the authorities to carry out the relevant teaching tests; Draft Resolution No 1108 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Effective prevention and combat of early school dropout; Draft Resolution No 1109 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Under the right of students to carry out national examinations to improve internal classification. Finally, there will be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish our work today by thanking you for your patience and mine. The session is closed. [[It was 21 hours and 10 minutes.]]
