ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Agents of the Authority. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] Galleries for the public can be opened. Before opening the agenda, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to inform the House of the file entered the Bureau. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bill No. 997 / XIV / 3. a ( PS, PSD and PCP ) and Resolution Project No 1480 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission. It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first item on the agenda consists of the general discussion of the Drafts of Law No 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 58 / 2019 of 8 August, which ensures the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, ensuring the access of medical students to information systems and platforms on which health data from health care users are recorded, and 966 / XIV/3. a ( BE) — It allows access to a set of personal data by medical students and scientific researchers for academic purposes, purposes of public interest archive, purposes of scientific or historical research or statistical purposes ( first amendment to Law No 58 / 2019 of 8 August ). To present the bill of the Socialist Party initiative, Mrs Sofia Andrade has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents today a bill that aims to ensure the access of medical students to information systems and platforms on which health data from health care users are recorded. Since now, it is important to make it clear that, for the Socialist Party, health care is an absolutely fundamental right and that at no time can be devalued or neglected. Health care is one of the fundamental axes of the Socialist Party's action. It was even the Socialist Party as one of the main drivers of public policies aimed at improving Portuguese health conditions, through constant strengthening of the National Health System. The bill that we present today appears as another step towards improving the teaching and learning of medical students in our country, students who will be the future of the care provided by the National Health System. Thus, we intend to create the legal conditions so that medical students, fulfilling all their confidentiality obligations in relation to data processing, can access the clinical records of the users. In the reading of Article 29. the Law No. 58 / 2019 of 8 August, it is found that the same article provides that, and I quote: « Students and researchers in the field of health and genetics and all health professionals who have access to health data are obliged to a duty of secrecy. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, being all students and health professionals who have access to health data due to a duty of secrecy, how do students then have access to such data? It is on this issue that we want to answer in this debate, regulating the conditions under which students can access the data on which they should keep silent. This is the debate that needs to be done. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this initiative aims precisely to clarify that the provision of health care and treatment or diagnostic services by medical students, in the establishments where they are trained, is equal to that provided by doctors for the purposes of access to information systems and platforms on which user health data are recorded. At the same time, this amendment to Law No 58 / 2019 wishes to increase the legal authorisation to prohibit abusive practices. In order to ensure the safety and reliability of the process, it is intended to establish that access should be made through the profile of students in safety conditions not less than those of other users. Finally, our initiative determines that all users should refrain from duplication of the databases consulted, in particular through the creation of own files with information from the databases or applications to which they have access, and should be taken by the entities responsible for the systems all the technical measures necessary for this to happen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are fully aware that today's proposal is inseparable from sensitive subjects, such as the issue of protecting the clinical data of users. Moreover, we are not indifferent to the views that other entities have submitted on this subject, particularly the National Data Protection Commission. We believe, however, that, although it is a matter that should be treated with utmost caution and caution, it can be further elaborated at a later stage. What we are doing here today is exactly starting a debate that if you want to be serious, responsible and successful, with a view to possible improvement of the law in order to reconcile medical students' access to clinical data of health users with the rights enshrined in the data protection law. We also understand that, in addition to the debate we are having today, there will be an opportunity in the field of expertise to hold a debate with greater depth and depth on this subject. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u5	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic came, among other things, to prove the urgency and the need to approach the public health areas of the National Health Service, the shared services of the Ministry of Health and the research areas of the Academy, universities, associated laboratories and all the agents who have worked in the field of biomedical and health over the past few years. This academic mobilization in the COVID-19 tests, since the beginning of the pandemic, in March 2020, and the role of medical students in the first line of the fight against the virus are only two good examples of how it was possible to create synergies to combat the COVID-19, understand the need for greater approximation between the services already developed and carried out by the National Health Service, by their hospitals, but at the same time by the faculties and their students and, on another side, the ability also to understand that the capacities installed in the research centres and associated laboratories can and should also give a response to public policies at times of emergency and emergency, as we lived during this pandemic. Therefore, precisely in order to take advantage of these synergies already created and to provide these sectors with instruments, in particular in access to personal data, the Left Block Parliamentary Group presents a bill that has as its main objective, as I said, to ensure access to data by medical students and scientific researchers for academic purposes, archives of public interest and scientific or historical research. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these subjects, which already generate consensus among hospital officials, health officials, but also academic officials — directors of medical faculties, directors of laboratories and research centres in the biomedical areas or even in the areas of social and human sciences, also medical students, several scientists who, especially in recent times, have come to discuss these and other issues — have a consensus generated and need access, which obviously meets all the requirements of the National Data Protection Commission, to a set of data to advance their research or, in the case of students, to advance their training. We know here, in the Assembly of the Republic, at this stage of debate in general, but also at the stage of speciality, that we find these legal solutions, listening to all and all those concerned, including the associated laboratories, the medical faculties, the representative organisations of students and scientists, as well as the National Data Protection Commission, in order to ensure the protection of all and any personal data, in the case of students through a technical debate of the existing platforms, and, in the case of researchers, through a technical debate of, where possible, new platforms that can ensure that same access. There is no reason to have access to these data today those students who were in the front line of the fight against COVID or even in the fight against all other problems that the National Health Service has faced over the past few years, but also those who monitored the problems of COVID-19, who had the ability to realize, besides daily, that mechanisms could work in the fight against COVID-19 or other diseases and other viruses. Therefore, on the part of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, there is a total openness in order to, as a specialist, find all these solutions and we hope that, on the part of the other parliamentary groups, there is the same openness, because the issue presented here is important and would be a very positive step forward for the scientific and academic community. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u7	For the CDS Parliamentary Group, the floor is Mr Miguel Arrobas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : what we are dealing with today is PS and BE bills that aim to extend to medical students and also researchers belonging to laboratories and research centers belonging to the legal and administrative perimeter of public higher education institutions access to a set of clinical data. This is a complex matter in which very sensitive data from patients are concerned. However, we are sensitive to the arguments put forward by both parties. They aim at a further development of the training and practice of medicine, as well as a greater development of scientific research, making sense that medical students have access, under certain conditions, to certain data. However, we cannot ignore the safeguards made by the National Data Protection Commission as well as by the Advocates' Order in the opinions which were sent to 1. the Commission. We cannot help but have not heard the Order of the Physicians. It seems to the CDS that it is essential for Parliament to know its position when it is proposed to legislate on access to personal data by medical students. And we also believe it is essential to listen to the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, because here too there are ethical, and very serious issues that arise. We therefore question several aspects, of course. A medical student who has not yet taken the Hippocrates oath, how do you ensure that patient data is kept confidential? In addition, we need to differentiate personal data from clinical data, and these raise, in our view, very complex ethical issues. What medical students are we talking about? How many years of course? What if, eventually, they give up in the middle of the course or change course, where do these personal data remain that have been collected in the meantime? The Left Block restricts legislation to medical students from university hospitals. So what about medical students from other universities who aren't university hospitals? For example, do Catholic University medical students become negatively discriminated against in access to patient data in relation to university hospital students? And does it make sense, as the PS argues, that "the provision of health care and treatment or diagnostic services by medical students, in the establishments where they are trained, is equal to that provided by doctors, for the purposes of access to information systems and platforms where patient health data are recorded? Is it ethical that, as the Left Block defends, researchers belonging to laboratories and research centres belonging to the legal and administrative perimeter of public higher education institutions can also access this data? These and many other questions are, in the view of the CDS, unanswered with these two bills, which raise our greatest reservations. If, eventually, these initiatives are to be brought down to discussion in the field of expertise, a number of hearings and requests for various opinions will have to be held. We repeat that the CDS is sensitive to the arguments presented. However, the formulation of these two initiatives raises many reservations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u9	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The objective of the legislative initiatives under discussion is simple to state. It is a matter of allowing medical students to access health data and clinical information of patients in establishments where they are trained, under appropriate technical supervision, access, which is legally restricted to them. This legislative amendment, which aims, therefore, to ensure the interest of the training of students, seems simple and appropriate, should not be the case if it appears to be contrary to the will of the patient as the holder of his data. We're not the ones who say it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is the CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission ) and the Order of Advocates that affirm it, perennially, in their opinions together in the legislative process. CNPD has no doubt to consider the Socialist Party's initiative a step back in protecting the personal data of patients, even criticizing the created fiction and dubious equalization of students' access to a medical act of care and diagnosis. The Law of Advocates also considers that the initiatives are not in conformity with the law of the European Union and that the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) does not provide for access by medical students to information systems and platforms on which user health data are recorded, for study and teaching purposes, as an autonomous exception to the general principle of the prohibition of data processing. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with two seemingly contradictory interests. That is, on the one hand, the interest of access to the clinical process, by medical students, and, on the other hand, of the protection of sensitive and personal data on the health of patients, whose conciliation does not seem to have been found by the legislative solutions under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we understand the intention of these initiatives, we perceive the objective pursued and we are sensitive to the problem, but the recommended solutions, objectively, are not sufficient to ensure the necessary balance of the interests in confrontation and to remove reservations and doubts that prevent them from being adequate. These initiatives are not sufficient, because they call into question the guarantee of respect for the autonomy of the will of the patients and the control of their data. They are not sufficient, because they do not take into account the findings of the expert working group established between CNPD, the Council of Portuguese Medical Schools and the Board of Rectors of Portuguese Universities, nor the system already designed by them, which integrates a profile of access of medical students. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problem exists, the need deserves legal protection and we are sensitive to it, but we cannot solve a problem by creating a new one. Now, that is exactly the risk that we are running and that we do not want to run.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u12	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have mentioned, the problem exists, the need deserves legal protection and we are sensitive to it. We will therefore abstain, thus creating conditions for the debate not to die here and can continue in the field of specialty, in the expectation that the best solutions can be found, which allow a need to be met, but at the same time overcome the very relevant reservations and doubts which remain and which we are not, nor can we be, indifferent. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u13	You have the floor for the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of our participation in this debate, we would like to start from the request of the University of Lisbon School of Medicine to establish a protocol with the University Hospital Center Lisboa Norte and the Shared Services of the Ministry of Health, which aimed at the creation and provision of a profile of access of medical students to personal data of the users of this hospital center. We must bring to this debate the information that the National Data Protection Commission intended not to give a favorable opinion on this request because it considered it not lawful to provide an automatic access profile that would allow students to access the clinical record of all users of that hospital centre. The initiatives we have discussed in substance allow for the important debate to be held on this subject, for which the NAP is, of course, available, but we must not fail to remember that, in order to resolve these difficulties, the National Data Protection Commission, the Council of Portuguese Medical Schools, the Board of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities and the representatives of the Shared Services of the Ministry of Health have integrated a working group that, in our understanding, presented an accurate solution to the concerns raised by the projects presented. These solutions guarantee students access to the data they needed for their training, but also preserve the privacy of users, respecting their informed consent, without needing to change the law. We understand that the proposal brought by the Socialist Party, which states that this mechanism would not be possible, nor practical, lacks a more in-depth discussion, which must, of course, be done in the field of expertise. in this debate, we should ask, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if it is lawful a student who will not follow in the future that user has access to all of his clinical information, without this user having authorized it. Does the patient know that access will be related to all your clinical data? Should such access exist for all data, regardless of their need for specific training of students? These are questions that, of course, we must bring to this debate and we cannot ignore. If it is true that current legislation provides for the duty of secrecy when there is access to personal health data, it is also true that its regulation is not foreseen. Both projects assume the prohibition of abusive user practices, including their impediment, but do not say how they will guarantee this condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u15	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u16	from the NAP, we are available for this debate, but we understand that there is a clear need to make a huge path in the field of expertise. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u17	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos spoke by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We believe that, in this debate, what is under discussion is, in fact, access to health data, which are sensitive, and there should be particular attention in protecting these data. Of course, all personal data cannot have a particular treatment to be protected, but I believe that in health matters this concern gains other proportions, taking into account the implications and sensitivity of what we are dealing with. This is the central issue with regard to this debate: who should or should not have access to such personal data? There are two proposals under discussion, one by the Socialist Party, another by the Left Block, in which we are asked questions that raise many doubts, namely by wanting to equate intervention by medical students, in a learning context, to medical acts and to the treatment or diagnostic activities carried out by health professionals. We believe that this equation is indeed complex and dangerous, and it must, in our view, be very careful. We naturally want the quality of training in the field of medicine to be strengthened and qualified, but this cannot jeopardise the protection of health data. A medical student, in the context of learning, is not in any way exercising an activity from the point of view of treatment or diagnosis, as it is stated. We are talking about an activity that has technical supervision, exactly because students do not have autonomy. In the context of this learning process, this follow-up is indeed the subject of technical supervision. The opinion of the National Data Protection Commission is very critical in this regard, raises a number of concerns about the issues of personal data and mentions an aspect which seems extremely relevant to us, which is the possibility of people being able to give their consent to access to their personal data or not. This is an issue that cannot be ignored regarding these initiatives. So, on the PCP side, we have a lot of reservations. In fact, personal health data should have the utmost protection and, in our view, we do not think that the way it is treated is appropriate. The Left Block also introduces another aspect in its project, which is linked to access to data for scientific research purposes. In fact, we understand that the evolution of knowledge is necessary and of course very useful, including from the point of view of scientific development in the field of health. We believe it is indeed necessary to find a solution to ensure the possibility of scientific development, but without questioning, of course, the protection of these data, which are indeed very sensitive and which must deserve our concern and maximum protection. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u19	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two projects that are under discussion have different readings, but the same objective, which is to allow medical students to access data that, in principle, only practitioners of practice and in practice can access. Regarding the PS project, this is very clear. The PS knows that this violates the law of the European Union and clearly knows that it violates the General Data Protection Regulation, until the law, in the form and formulation it already has, allows access to such data when there is consent. in this regard, the law is very clear and the law of the European Union is also so. What the Socialist Party wants to do is transform something that knows it is not possible to pass, either in the field of specialty, or at the discretion of the Constitutional Court, to arrange more clientele of votes between students and the student community. This project does not make sense; it says it wants to give students what already scientific laboratories and community have access to. You don't even understand where you're going. But there is a fact that is particularly serious. It is that the two projects presented here today distinguish between public universities and private universities, as if, for example, the medical students of the Catholic University should not have the same access as the medical students of the public university. This is an ideological distinction that we understand from you, but that is absolutely intolerable in the country we want to build.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u21	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Andrade, to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, on behalf of the Socialist Party, I would like to thank the other parties for the statements they have made here and for the contributions they have made to the debate we have made here. In fact, given the interventions we have heard here, there is, I think, a sensitivity, a care that should be associated with the treatment of this matter. Having said that, it is important to clarify two aspects that we consider important. First, access to health information systems, from clinical data to medical students, is a factor that contributes to the improvement of teaching and learning. For the Socialist Party this amendment to the law is indeed a support for improving the process of medical training itself. Furthermore, this permission of access to information systems by medical students can lead to avoiding access that can happen, such as the use of passwords, whether from teachers or other health professionals. Secondly, of course, this is a discussion which is inseparable from security issues in relation to data processing. What we want to make clear is that at some point the duty of secrecy may be challenged, according to which health professionals must govern their performance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u23	Therefore, we admit that there are aspects that are likely to be pondered and in-depth, so as to safeguard effective respect for the protection of clinical data of users. There will be an opportunity, in the field of expertise, to correct what is needed to correct, safeguarding the interests of both users and health services as well as doctors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u24	We have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We enter the second point, which is the discussion of draft resolution No 1315 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the social network for the first child, together with, in general, Law Projects Nos 371 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Proposals for measures to extend the free of charge of day care centres and similar solutions, 963 / XIV/ 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Programme to encourage the creation and flexibility of daycare hours and 965 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Creates the Network of Public Knitches program and with the Resolution Project No 186 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Enlargement of the public day care network and support for families where there are no public sector responses. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Helga Correia, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing the draft resolution of the Social Democratic Party for strengthening the social network for the first childhood, which joins a draft resolution and three draft laws on the same subject. Mr President, our draft resolution today under discussion is the culmination of a work carried out by the members of the Democratic Social Party on the ground, in the various municipalities and districts of the country, within the framework of an initiative of Child Day. I wanted to note that we have heard a large part of the interveners linked to the first childhood, from the private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ) to the youth protection committees and, in this project today under discussion, some points mirror their concerns. Mr President, the fall in birth is a transversal phenomenon across Europe which can put generation renewal at risk. It is up to States to develop an integrated public policy of childhood, which will enable greater access to social services and equipment to boost generational renewal, which is essential for future economic prosperity. In addition, the statistics available show that we are getting older at an ever-increasing pace. In the last decade, Portugal has a population decline of 2 % — data already from the preliminary censuses. It is not just that we are the fourth oldest country in Europe, that we have the fifth lowest birth rate in Europe, with the average number of children per woman in Portugal of 1, 4, below the minimum value, which is 2, 1, the number considered for the effective renewal of generations of the most developed countries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the average coverage of the social responses to early childhood was set, according to the data of the latest Social Charter of 2019 — already available — in 48, 4 %, a rate that we consider very low in relation to the needs of families. If we want to increase the growth of birth or the establishment of young people of fertile age in our country, we must guarantee conditions, equipment at bearable prices, with schedules adapted to these days, which allow for greater and better reconciliation of professional and family life. We therefore propose an increase in the coverage of the social network of day care centres to 60%, i.e. an increase in capacity by around 28 000, with a particular impact on areas identified in the Social Charter as the most deficient, which are the cases of Lisbon, Porto and Setúbal. To that end, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government should use the Community financing instruments it has, in particular the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the next multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027. It should also ensure the financial resources necessary for the "family day" response in order to enhance the expansion of the existing network, its infrastructure and human quality, and to ensure adequate reception and follow-up for children in space and time, and also to ensure the necessary and appropriate financial and human resources for the regular functioning of municipal day care centres. It is also essential to create support for companies that create an entity that invests in the opening of day care centres or kindergartens operating alongside a business area and assumes the status of IPSS, a proposal which the PSD has repeatedly submitted and which Parliament has repeatedly rejected. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important that the Government promote the calendar and public disclosure of the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Plan for the conversion or extension of the number of equipment for the first and corresponding children and that by 2025 it ensures the free frequency of day care facilities up to 5. The stairwell. In conclusion, I wanted to say that transparency is a key pillar in the confidence of citizens with the State. It is therefore important for the Government to ensure the monitoring, monitoring and dissemination of investment developments and the growth of equipment and their gaps. Public policies for children should respond to the social, economic and educational needs of citizens and families, as well as create the necessary confidence that will lead them to choose a solution to have more children in our country. The State budget for 2022, delivered to Parliament and now under consideration, does not meet the real needs of families, is not a family budget responsible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u26	Mr Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u27	Mr. President and Mr. Members: To ensure the access of all children to daycare, all without exception, to extend the freeness of daycare to all children irrespective of the steps and to implement a public network of daycare that covers the needs existing in the national territory are the proposals that the CFP brings to the discussion. Measures necessary to meet the needs of children and families and which must be implemented without further delay. If today thousands of children have free day care, it is due to the proposal and insistence of the PCP, which has fought for this much-needed response. A response that has to go further in its scope, as also the CFP has insisted and proposed in more than a moment. And reality confirms your need and urgency. The costs with the frequency of day care are high. Costs that influence family choices about having children or having more children. There's no need for day care. Even by adding the existing ones in IPSS and private entities these are not enough for the number of children that exist and even considering that not all families want or need their baby to attend daycare right from 4 months, the truth is that there are about half the vacancies that exist for the universe of needs. All stages of growth and development of the child have, in our country—and well! — a free and public response, with the exception of the age group 0 to 3 years or up to the entry into pre-school until the 25 daycare centres which were managed directly by social security were privatized in 2012, in the hands of the PSD Government and the CDS. Therefore, associated with the extension of freeness for all children, the implementation of a public network of day care centres is unacceptable. The implementation of a public network represents the fulfilment of a social function of the State which it must call upon to it, in its management and operation, without prejudice to the complementary role that should be played by institutions of social solidarity. In a country with a serious demographic deficit, freeness and universality in access to day care are security elements for couples who wish to have the first child, as well as for those who, having children in these age groups, wish to have more children. Mr. President and Mr. Members, if the ageing of the population by itself, as an increase in the average life expectancy, is not a negative aspect for what it means of civilizational advancement, the fall in birth in our country is a negative aspect that deserves concern, and urgent and transversal measures are necessary to overcome it. In order to reverse the demographic breakdown, it is essential to value wages, a central element to improve living conditions and to combat poverty, including the poverty experienced by thousands of children in our country; to eradicate precariousness, to fulfil the right to employment stability, but also to stability in life, which significantly influences when deciding whether or not to have children; to combat irregular working hours, the proliferation of night work and shifts; and to reduce working hours to 35 hours. And no, the solution is not to extend daycare hours so that children can be left there for 10, 12, 14 hours, maybe nights or weekends. Even because the daycare centers are not — and cannot — the place where babies or children are left to go to work. Kindergartens can — and should — be a space that ensures all children the right to full development. The solution is even to fight the wild hours imposed on workers and to ensure that working parents and mothers have decent times, time to live, time to accompany their children and see their children growing up. The solution is to strengthen maternity and paternity rights, to ensure stability in housing, to restore the universality of family allowance and to value its values, to ensure the full access of all children to quality public services, indispensable and unattainable responses to central problems in our country, answers that combat the demographic deficit and that meet the rights of children, parents and families. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u28	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reconciliation of professional and family life is currently one of the major challenges of our model of social and economic organization. In a country where men and women work, especially in full time, the reconciliation of these two dimensions, professional and family, has a strong impact on the well-being of families, on the performance and motivation of workers, on the productivity of businesses, on the quality of employment, on equality between men and women and — very important and above all — on birth. The reconciliation of these two dimensions helps us to meet the demographic challenge in a more robust way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u31	It is that couples often do not pursue their plans to have more children—or even to have their first child—not because they do not want to, but because the demands of professional life and the shortage of support structures do not allow it. For these reasons, promoting better standards of reconciliation between work and the family should be the objective and priority of our public policies, both those relating to the well-being of families and the promotion of birth, and those relating to labour policies. Incentives for birth soon are used if the family daily is a constant struggle between family management, lack of time and shortage of suitable places and affordable prices to leave our children. Contribute to resolving this problem has long been one of the priorities of the CDS's political action. We understand that the increase in the number of day care centers and the flexibility of their schedules can have a very positive effect on the improvement of our birth indicators, being even decisive in the view of the CDS. We want more couples to have their first child sooner and more couples to have more children. The State should focus its policies on promoting an environment that allows families to choose freely to have more children, if that is their wish. As I have already said, the decision to have no children or to have no more children is often due to the lack of support structures, affordable prices and suitable schedules for the real needs of families. The lack of these support structures or its low hourly flexibility limits, above all, the parents who work on weekends, shifts or at night hours. In order to contribute to the resolution of this problem, the CDS presents today a bill aimed at creating a programme to encourage the creation and flexibility of daycare hours. We therefore propose the following three concrete measures: to adapt the model of financing non-profit day care centres, in order to encourage the establishment of flexible and extended hours, where there is a clear need for families, by virtue of the hours of employers; to promote the establishment of private institutions of social solidarity, without profit, in order to ensure access to the conclusion of agreements with social security to finance the operation of day care centres that practice a flexible and appropriate time for their employees; and to promote the conclusion of agreements between institutions of children and employers, with a view to establishing timetables and other conditions of access, in order to provide more alternatives to parents, supporting family dynamics. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to legislative initiatives in this area which point to the construction of public day care centres as a solution, the CDS defends what it has always defended: a social state of partnership that responds to its problems, convening all sectors, namely the public sector, the private sector and the social sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u33	In particular, we defend that the State contracts with the social sector the vacancies necessary to universalize access to day care facilities. This measure will allow you to have vacancies faster and spending less than building new equipment. And if the vacancies in the social sector are not sufficient—as they are not—then the state should contract with the private sector the missing vacancies. There are many flocks in this country with enough breaks. The private sector is available to provide a significant number of daycare breaks at more affordable prices, allowing families to bear the costs that they cannot otherwise bear. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u34	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group brings to this House a bill aimed at creating a public network of day care centres. The first childhood is a stage of development of the person and requires to be recognized as such and not as mere waiting compass until the age of 3. in this sense, it is important to reflect on the attention and recognition that the Portuguese State has been providing to the first childhood, which, in the view of the Left Block, is little or no, opting to download in the private and social sector the responsibility for this important stage of the development of the person. As such, and taking into account the full development of citizens and citizens, the Left Block understands that the first childhood or care at this stage of life have reflections on the development of the person. Opinion No 8/2008 of the National Education Council on Children's Education from 0 to 12 years of age highlights — and I quote — that "the education of 0 to 6 years of age is crucial for the educational development of children and is a factor of equity". In the same vein, the Seminar The Education of Children from 0 to 3 years old at the National Council for Education ( NEC ) concluded that « the right to daycare » is a right to be recognised « as an educational service » which has « intrinsic value and can contribute to the development of children ». Another recommendation of the NEC on education between 0 and 3 years of age considers that the realization of children's right to daycare is "a factor of equal opportunities, inclusion and social cohesion". The same document states that primary responsibility for early childhood education belongs to families, and the frequency of daycare should not be compulsory, but should be « universal, so that families have high quality services to whom to deliver their children, services which should be geographically close to their home or place of work ». In the same vein, he argues that « the Ministry of Education should gradually assume responsibility for the protection of the education of the age group from 0 to 3 years ». According to the State of Education 2019 ( CNE, 2020 ), the number of social responses to early childhood has been decreasing since 2014, at the same time as the demand for daycare has increased and with it the value of the monthly benefit. The lack of vacancies and the lack of public supply is the reality with which thousands of families face difficulties in financially supporting this expenditure. And there are reasons that explain this phenomenon and which are of political character: on the one hand, the daycare centers are not included in the public education system, but in social security, so the offer is essentially under the management of the private sector and the social sector; and on the other hand, the daycare centers are seen as assistance to families and not within the framework of the rights of children, which contributes to disresponsibility of the State. This lack of day care is also recognised by the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), which announces the objective « to increase the capacity to respond in day care, mainly in territories that still have very low coverage levels », in particular the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. For all these facts and reasons, the Left Block presents to the discussion the creation of a public daycare network programme, to be started in 2022, which will enable it to respond to this social weakness of the country and will realize the right to daycare as part of the constitutional rights of children to full development. The aim of the public daycare network program is to promote access to daycare; to extend the frequency of daycare to all children who attend public daycare or who are covered by the cooperation system and whose family aggregate belongs to the 3. the step; to raise the needs of public day care and pre-school education, including means and facilities, as well as human resources; to requalify and even build new day care; to create a monitoring team under the joint protection of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security; and also, no less important, to account for the time of service of children educators and educators for career purposes. Therefore, the Left Block also wants to start a process, with a view to including the day care network in the educational system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u36	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The challenge of birth is now a fundamental challenge in Portugal. One third or half of the family income is estimated to be spent on daycare. In families, whether more or less numerous, families of cities or suburbs, a fundamental portion of their income is now spent on daycare: one third to one half is a fundamental and very important part of the family budget. It would be here today to remind — at least by the opposition — that it was the Prime Minister who promised to create 7000 new vacancies in IPSS day care centres in 2020. Those 7,000 new vacancies never came up. And we didn't expect it to be the Block or the PCP pointing this out. But we expect the opposition here today to do so. In 2021, out of a socialist meeting, Antonio Costa said « now it will be» and promised 10 000 new places in day care and a tax deduction of €900 for these situations. Once again, not only does this not appear from the State budget for next year as there is no socialist proposal in this matter. These are the situation and the point we have reached in Portugal. All reports, both national and international, point out as crucial and fundamental the creation of a network of support in partnership and in direct financing of day care centres in Portugal to address a fundamental problem of support for the family and development of birth. However, we let a Prime Minister « pass through the raindrops», promising everything and its opposite as the years pass. This is what we have to report today here. If, today, the country needs more than 20 000 places in day care is because not 7000, not 10 000 places have been created. The Socialist Prime Minister, who promised, three years ago, to create 7000 and then 10 000 seats, has given no further place in day care, in Portugal, financed by the State or in partnership for creation in private entities or IPSS. This is what the Socialist Party today should come here to answer: where are these places at kindergartens? Where is the budget allocation? And how can the left even think of making the State Budget possible, which, for years, has promised more places in day care and, once again, arrives here without a single toaster, with no more one euro for day care facilities? This is Portuguese hypocrisy. It is therefore essential that we create a network in partnership, a network of direct financing, which allows our families to have, for the first time in their history, the dignity that other states of the European Union already have.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u38	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some, on the left, have used the possible mandatory frequency of day care as a sort of fireworks so that we do not discuss what is previously necessary. The frequency of daycare can only be compulsory if the State guarantees the conditions for access to supply, which the State does not do today. And why don't you? Because the quickest way to do is to return power to people, directly financing families so that they can access the non-public network. And the government does not want to do it again because of ideological blindness. Although not compulsory, almost 100 % of children aged 4 and 5 are in pre-school. Only 85% of 3-year-olds are present because the most deprived families do not get one of the few vacancies in the state network and stay out. It is said that, in this age group, about 60% of children attend private institutions, with or without public funding. What really matters is to guarantee all conditions of access to day care, whether public, social or private, for profit, or IPSS created by companies themselves. Access needs to be guaranteed, with more freedom to choose different day care centers and educational projects. It is true that «it is not only the cucumber of little people», that the state has to provide all public services, thus preventing the foundation of a free society to be strengthened. And the basis is that everyone has the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u40	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to welcome the spirit of the various projects brought to this discussion, which are also revealing the structural needs of our country, particularly with regard to access to kindergartens, kindergartens, responses to families in this area. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the urgency of dealing with what is a snowball of family expenses, what are the costs associated with family commitments, the day-care centres often put families here in a huge despair, because indeed, it is not possible to pay the monthlyities of these equipment so often. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reality of families is indeed difficult in Portugal. It is not possible to ensure vacancies, either because of lack of response in their communities or because we have excessive monthly values, which is, of course, when there are vacancies available. We know that, with the health crisis we are experiencing, many families have lost purchasing power, lost jobs and more people have come closer to the poverty line, so we believe that these proposals are generally positive, as they try to extend the response of the daycare centres in our country. For the NAP, this response should be universal and therefore tend to be free of charge. As long as this is not possible for all families, the State should ensure its progressiveity, beginning with families with lower financial capacity for this purpose. We are well aware that the integration of children in these equipment plays a key role in child development, allowing for greater equality of opportunity and social inclusion, in addition to clearly being the only response that many families have, due to the absence of another support network. It is therefore a necessary response throughout the national territory. It is also very important to make a way for employers, in conjunction with the State, to implement reconciliation responses between family life and work and it is essential to ensure the quality of these answers. What we cannot accept is that, on the basis of this need and this response, if we try to justify work abuses and time charges beyond those envisaged, under the idea that if children or daughters are insured in an equipment promoted by the company, then parents may be there for the hours that are necessary. Nor can it be considered that, in the case of undertakings that require more time than expected, it should be social security to have to pay the costs of this option by the organisational entity. The social security cooperation protocols should be a mechanism to be held on the table, not to pay the time options of these private entities, but to ensure that families who have no other type of response in those times can actually have solutions here. In conclusion, I just wanted to say that it is not about building again. Often, it is a question of adapting existing responses, in the background, looking for an integrated and efficient network, adapting whenever possible and cooperating with solidarity or private entities when that response is best for children and families. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u42	You have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this point in the agenda we have five projects under discussion — the Arrival, the PSD, the PCP, the BE, and the CDS. This is a very important issue and, as such, must be treated with the seriousness and responsibility that we deserve. Therefore, in this discussion, I will separate the seriousness of the projects from the lack of it. So let's start with a lack of seriousness. The project presented by the Chega states, at the outset, that « the Arrival defends and refers, in its programme and in a set of measures to be implemented, to support birth and the creation of day care centres ». Mr. André Ventura, I read your programme, your new programme—and look at there are already many! — approved at the last Congress of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u44	Are you already following the congresses?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u45	Mr President, there is no mention of the extension of the day care centres! Not a single paragraph, not a single line! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it does not even mention the word creche, the more the enlargement of the network of day care centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u46	Is that how you searched? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u47	In view of this, and with the respect that this issue should deserve us, for the PS to discuss its project we give you two options - Mr. Member : or correct your political programme - and we all know that it is very fast and that it can do it in the evening, from night to day - or then correct the project you presented here. [[Protests by PCP MP João Dias and CH counterprotests.]] This subject requires respect and seriousness, and not just mere propaganda screams. Let us return to the seriousness of the debate. So let's go back to PCP, Left Block, CDS and PSD projects. [[CH protests.]] Sir, listen, listen! As you will correct, and write, the programme may be interesting for you to hear some measures that the Government of the Socialist Party has already implemented. It'll be useful for you! Don't talk so much and hear any more, Mr. I said that much of what is proposed in these projects—serious! — it has already been done or is contractual. I shall therefore set out a set of measures that are allusive to this. I refer first to the PARES 2.0 programme ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme — 2. the Generation ), which was launched for investment projects directed exclusively for the remodeling and creation of new places in the social response of day care, in the municipalities with lower coverage rate, and up to now have been deployed 3,500 places, in a public investment of about 22 million euros. Then, in the PRR, EUR 54 million is planned for the extension of the day care network. I also refer to freeness in the first and second steps and the guarantee for childhood. This package consists of three measures aimed at strengthening the income support of families with children and young people, placing child poverty control as the priority of the State's priorities. These are: strengthening the family allowance for the first and second steps, phased, over the next two years, until guaranteeing the value of 600 € per child per year; complementing the family allowance, which will guarantee all children and young people at risk of extreme poverty the annual amount of 1200 € ; and complementing the guarantee for childhood, which ensures that holders of the right of family allowance above the second step, who do not get a total annual value of 600 € per child or youth between the family allowance and the deduction to the IRS collection (tax on income of natural persons), will receive the difference between that value. It is also worth noting that it is already planned that day care centres that have a representative set of children whose parents work on shifts can establish protocols with social security to be entitled to a financial supplement to promote specific hours for these children, as the CDS project tries to state. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the commitment that the Socialist Party and the Government will continue to work on this issue seriously. Much has already been done, but more we want to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u48	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens. In the meantime, Mr André Ventura signaled the Bureau. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u49	It is to make a point of order to the Bureau, Mr President, in order to request the delivery of a document if possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u50	To make an inquiry to the Bureau, in which it suggests the delivery of a document. Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u51	That's what I want to do, Mr. President. Mr. Member of the Socialist Party said he read the various documents from the Congress...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u52	Mr President, do not give much explanation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u53	It's too fast.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u54	What document do you want to deliver?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u55	The arrival will deliver today to the Bureau, not only the program as the proposal... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Bring the documents to the Bureau, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u57	We shall bring to the Bureau, to hand over to the Socialist Party, the proposal of the State Budget last year where we propose a network of public daycare centres for Mr Read. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u58	Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor, as planned, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although the issue of strengthening measures for early childhood is important, some fear that it will be important and, despite the constant warnings for difficulties, despite the proposals to overcome them and even the announcements of measures to support birth, what is evident is that these measures have not been properly developed in recent years. Concerns about the fact that few children are born in Portugal are public, which results in the rapid ageing of the Portuguese population, but what we find on the ground is the very practical difficulties of the parents and, in particular, of young people, the result of the lack of support for children. How is it expected that a young couple, who live with two minimum wages or a little more, will decide to take an option that will cost them, as soon as they start — in addition to milk, diapers, health products and hygiene, clothing — a spending of hundreds of euros to put the child on a daycare centre, this if you are lucky to find one? There are no daydreams for all children whose parents need and want to reconcile work with paternity and maternity or spaces that may later be attended. What is even worse if we talk about spaces with balance, so that they can develop cognitive capabilities, so that they can grow with their peers, so that they socialize and develop, mentally and physically, in a healthy way. The Greens do not agree that children and young people spend more hours at daycare and in schools than their parents do at work, but it is urgent to work on building a network of public daycare that covers the whole country, with a view to ensuring free daycare for all children up to the age of 3. This is so that children whose parents are unable to pay a monthly allowance will not have to give up their professional life because they have more than one child. But in addition, it is really necessary to regulate working hours, to end precarious work, to increase the national minimum wage so that all those who want to form families can do so and do not limit themselves because the country where they live does not allow them to do so and only puts obstacles to them. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, low birth is a serious problem that needs certain answers, but they will certainly not come from those who voted against the increase in the national minimum wage, from those who stole thousands of children, the family allowance, from those who want the backlog of labour legislation, from those who have increased the working time, from those who have weakened the right to housing to the state we know today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u61	They won't even come by giving more money to companies to open new business lines with the children. The answer will come from a different policy, which places the rights of children and the future of the country at the centre of concerns. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u62	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the answer that must be given to the reality that we have in our country, the lack of daycare breaks for children and the many difficulties that families face every month to pay for daycare—which is, in fact, inseparable from the reality of low wages that we also have in our country—is the expansion of freeness, as the CFP proposes, beyond the two steps that are already considered. It is a proposal on which the CFP has insisted. We say that all children, regardless of the steps, must have guaranteed their right to day care because we are talking about rights. We are talking about children's rights in access to daycare, but we are also talking about the right that children have to have the daycare as an integral development space and not a place where they are left to be able to work. The daycare centers don't have to be at the service of the employers' wishes and schedules. We are talking about the rights of children to be accompanied by parents, and therefore we insist on combating irregular hours, we insist on 35 hours of work for all workers and on combating abuse in the field of extraordinary work, shiftwork and nighttime. What is needed, indeed, is the extension of freeness, but also a public network of day care centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u64	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u65	Even to conclude, Mr President, we must guarantee universality and freeness, because we are talking about fundamental rights of children, parents and working mothers, of families in our country. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u66	To close this debate, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, scheduled by the PSD Parliamentary Group, on strengthening the social network for the first childhood, we can conclude that doubts remain that one of the most serious problems of the reality in which we live, which mortgages the future of the present and future generations, and the country itself, is the demographic ageing, the result of the reduced birth rate, which is directly linked to the lack of conditions of families and many young people who want, but cannot, to be a family. The first years of life are decisive in the acquisition of skills, allowing children a better school course and a less vulnerable adult life, constituting the first step towards the so-called social elevator. It is therefore essential, as has been widely recognized in this debate, that adequate responses exist in support of families, both at the media level and at the level of equipment where parents can leave their children safe while working, in particular with regard to the increase in the number of vacancies and early childhood benefits, an essential contribution to the reconciliation of personal, professional and family life. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we are certain that the reversal of this worrying demographic path will depend on the solutions to be adopted in this area, we also know that time is urgent for those who govern and for those who support the current governance so that, once and for all, they will move from announcements to acts, in particular through the current State budget and the implementation of the funds provided for in the Recovery and Resilence Programme and other European fund programmes. This is so that they will not turn a single opportunity into another missed opportunity, like others we have seen in these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u69	It is a unique and probably unrepeatable opportunity for the adoption of integrated public policies that improve the determining conditions in the implementation of Portuguese life projects. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u70	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. We will move on to point three of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bills Nos. 871 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Set up unequivocally the principle of the most favourable assessment in the evaluations made by medical board ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October ) and 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Medical certificate of multi-use disability — clarifying the processes of review or re-evaluation of the degree of incapacity by means of an interpretative standard to Article 4. the Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October. To present the bill of the Left Block, I give the floor to Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings to the debate a bill to establish clearly, express and unequivocally the principle of the most favourable assessment in the processes of review or re-evaluation of disability by medical board. In practical terms, and using an example, an oncological patient to whom a 60 % disability has been attributed and who has had access to the multi-use attestation, if, in subsequent re-evaluation, is attributed, by hypothesis, 50 % disability would lead to loss of the attestation and inherent support. What must prevail is, in the opinion of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the principle of the most favourable assessment which allows this person to continue for another period to have 60 % disability and to enjoy inherent social and fiscal support, firstly because the disease has not disappeared, and secondly because the social and economic consequences of the disease, in addition to those that occur in the health, of course, have not disappeared. Why is the Left Block presenting this bill right now? Because for a few months there have been many people with disabilities in this country who are losing access to multi-use attestation and social and fiscal support, because this principle of the most favorable assessment, which has already existed, is not being fulfilled, no longer exists. It was a practice for many years, but all this changed when the current State Secretary for Tax Affairs decided to make a creative reinterpretation of the law. Without changing the law, the Government found that it could, by order, and the Tax and Customs Authority (AT ) found that it could, by circulated office, stop making the most favorable assessment a reality. The consequence, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are hundreds — indeed, the Portuguese League Against Cancer speaks in thousands — of users who are losing support without any advance notice. Even some of these patients are being contacted until they return support that had already been allocated to them — and properly attributed. This is a way of acting intolerable, with very serious consequences. Two real cases: Manuela's father was diagnosed with cancer in 2014, was attributed to him a 60 % disability, his attestation and his tax rights and support; in 2018, he was reassessed with 50 % disability, but prevailed at the time, and well, the principle of the most favourable evaluation, thus maintaining the existing support. It appears that after the creative reinterpretation of Mr. Secretary of State and the Government, the Tax Authority decided to require the refund of the IRS support and at the head of IUC ( single circulation tax ). Notice: the person concerned continues to be an oncological patient, continues to have to deal with the social and economic consequences of the disease, did nothing wrong, did not forget any system, nothing, only had access to a right that was yours. However, the Government has decided to withdraw this right from it and retroactively. Another example: Olivia was diagnosed with multiple myeloma and even made two autotransplants of the marrow, was attributed to her a degree of incapacity of 80 %, required and had access to social inclusion. In 2019, it was reassessed and was attributed to it an incapacity of 72 % and, as the principle of the most favourable assessment prevailed, and well maintained social support. The problem is that because of Mr. Secretary of State and Government's reinterpretation in 2020 it has been cut off and now it owes social security a number of months of the benefit that was retroactively considered as undue. These situations, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they multiply by hundreds in the country and are unacceptable. The left-wing bloc had the opportunity to call on Parliament's Secretary of State for Tax Affairs to confront it with the consequences of his office, and in this hearing it was clear that the government's intention was even to cut social and fiscal support. That was the government's intention! Therefore, what we say with this bill is: if the intention of the Government is insensitive, then the requirement of the Assembly of the Republic must be to impose social solidarity; if the intention of the Government is to cut social support, then the requirement of the Assembly of the Republic is to maintain these social support. Now, that is what the Left Block does with the presentation of this bill in saying, clearly and unequivocally, that the right to the most favorable assessment is a legal imperative and that access to this right cannot be revoked or cut, much less by a statement of the result of a creative interpretation, which is destructive to many people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u72	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is to correct injustice and to ensure that people with disabilities and disabilities do not lose acquired rights that the CFP presents this legislative initiative. The assessment of disability is calculated according to the National Table of Incapacitys for Work Accident and Occupational Diseases, using for the purpose of the annex which contains all the instructions for assessing the universe of disorders, injuries and disabilities that will correspond to the allocation of a certain degree of disability. Decree-Law No 291/2009, associated with the Disability Assessment Scheme of Persons with Disabilities, also referring this same assessment to the national disability table, is also a diploma that provides that, when there is a review or reassessment of disability, the degree of disability resulting from the application of this same national table in force at the date of the evaluation or last reassessment is maintained whenever, according to the medical board's statement, it is more favourable to the evaluation. This same diploma in Article 4 ( 8 ). it considers that « the degree of incapacity is unfavourable to those assessed when the change in the degree of incapacity resulting from review or reassessment implies the loss of rights that it is already exercising or of benefits already recognised to it ». We read what is in this diploma, because it is important to realize that this is what is enshrined in the law. The question is simple: if the pathology that was at the origin of the allocation of disability remains and continues to consist of the medical attestation of multi-use disability, which concerns the recognition of rights and benefits provided for in the law is the degree of disability that, according to the statement of the medical board, is more favourable to the citizen who is evaluated. This understanding is justified because the pathology that led to the allocation of the degree of disability has not disappeared. However, at the request of the Tax and Customs Authority, which also materialises a decision issued by the Office of the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, an introduction and a new interpretation of the law is made, the practical result of which is the elimination of Article 4. the Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October. This interpretation, in addition to being contrary to the law, also reveals a deep insensitivity to the situation of people with disabilities and disabilities, subverting even the objectives that were at the basis of this law. It brings profound losses to people with disabilities and disabilities with already acquired rights and who are effectively losing them at this time: we speak of exemptions at the home of IRS or IUC, or of access to social benefits to which they had the right and which they no longer have. It is in this sense that the CFP presents an interpretative standard which makes it clear that, in situations of review or reassessment of disability, where the same procedure results in the allocation of a degree of disability below the previously certified and which may mean a loss of rights or benefits already recognised, the most favourable assessment is maintained for the citizen provided that it relates to the same clinical pathology that determined the allocation of the disability in question. The current situation weakens those who, due to disability or disability, are already in a situation of vulnerability and it is to correct this injustice and also to maintain the rights of persons with disabilities and incapacity that the CFP presents this proposal. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u74	Mr Rui Cristina, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two bills, one of the Portuguese Communist Party and another of the Left Block, both proposing to amend, or rather clarify the regime of review or re-evaluation of incapacity in force. This is a relatively recent issue, which arose as a result of a change in the interpretation of the existing legislation on tax benefits, the responsibility of the current government, and which goes in a sense that impairs and removes these benefits to many patients who had a degree of fiscally relevant disability. The issue is essentially the following: currently, patients with multi-use attestation with a degree of incapacity equal to or greater than 60 % have a more reasonable tax regime, especially within IRS. If, later, the patient's health status improves and a medical board assesses, in the case of re-evaluation of disability, a degree of disability lower than the initial level, the patient continues to enjoy the already recognised tax benefits, provided that, of course, its incapacity respects the same pathology—is the result of Article 4. the Decree-Law No. 291/2009 in its current wording. It happens that, as we all know, the current government, through an unusual order of the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, has decided to cease applying the most favourable regime to the patient in a clear and flagrant violation of the letter and the spirit of the law. This new interpretation does not overlook only the situation of the patient to whom a high disability has been applied, as it ignores the high health and other costs that this patient, not uncommonly, has to carry out, also denying him the support that the law grants him thanks to the pathology of which he is suffering and which has determined the allocation of a high degree of disability. More: the interpretation of the current Executive of the Socialist Party seriously undermines legal certainty, violates acquired rights and is, above all, deeply inhuman. It is well seen that these benefits and support for patients with severe diseases have not been called into question during the difficult governance of troika time, precisely because the social and economic costs of these diseases are not ignored for their patients and their families. That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important not to move forward to simple legislative solutions capable of generating undesirable tax injustices or the system of allocation of public support. The Social Democratic Party has a clear position on this: we believe that, in situations of review or re-evaluation of the disability of persons with disabilities, where this procedure results in the allocation of disability below the previously certified degree, the patient's most favourable degree should be maintained, provided he respects the same clinical pathology. The point is that this pathology has not yet been deduced and that the degree of disability subsequently achieved continues to carry financial burdens or implies losses or other relevant difficulties, for example, in terms of their economic activity. Therefore, for the PSD, this is the fairest position because it is also the one that best protects the disabled person. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u76	Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Ladies and gentlemen: There are the parliamentary groups of the BE and the PCP presenting two bills that aim to reinforce the principle of the most favorable evaluation, in the evaluations made by medical board. These projects aim to clarify and reinforce the interpretation of what is already enshrined in existing legislation, in particular in Decree-Law No 202 / 96, with the wording of Decree-Law No 291/2009. This reference — and well — that, in the review or reassessment processes, the degree of incapacity, resulting from the application of the National Table of Incapacitys for Work Accidents and Occupational Diseases in force at the date of the evaluation or last reassessment, is maintained whenever, according to a statement by the medical board, it is more favourable to the evaluation. Moreover, it is considered that the degree of incapacity is unfavorable to those assessed when the change in the degree of incapacity resulting from review or reassessment implies the loss of some right that it is already exercising or of benefits that have already been recognised. Therefore, when, in a reassessment, the patient is attributed a lower degree of disability than he had before, what is most favorable to him, i.e., the degree of previous disability. It should also be noted that when a person has an incapacity of 60 % or more he or she is entitled to the medical certificate of multi-use disability, which gives him or her access to various subsidies and tax benefits within IRS, VAT (added value tax), vehicle tax, IUC exemption and the exemption from the payment of moderate fees, among others. However, a 2019 Office of the Tax and Customs Authority came, as a result of an order of the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, to introduce itself! — a new interpretation, thus eliminating the prevalence of the most favourable degree of disability in re-evaluation cases. As a result, many people saw them suddenly withdrawing support and benefits that they had, without being taken or found. Thus, the Left Block and the PCP propose that it be added to Decree-Law No 202 / 96 a new article 4. o -A, establishing the principle of evaluation most favourable to the evaluated, which seems to us to make all the sense. We recall that as early as May, the CDS sent a written question to the Minister of State and Finance, in which we stated that this new interpretation that the Tax and Customs Authority is doing, resulting from the office of the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, is highly condemnable and reprehensible. We hope, therefore, that these initiatives, when they are worked in the specialty, can be harmonised in the differences that exist between themselves, being the Parliamentary Group of the CDS committed to contributing to a final text that ensures a true sense of social justice, which is a value of which we do not dispense. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u78	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality of medical boards and the delays they have suffered over the past few years, resulting from the health crisis we live in, has brought to this House various concerns on the part of users and, of course, also on the part of their families. Despite the various resolutions taken and the debates held in the field of expertise in the Health Committee, the NAP has never stopped presenting several solutions aimed at improving these responses in terms of the immediate functioning of medical boards not only in the context of the health crisis, but also outside of it. It is necessary to work together for an innovative and more efficient model, as indeed the hearings held in the Health Committee have made clear. With regard to the proposals submitted, they bring the clear will to clarify and bring the correct interpretations of the processes of review and re-evaluation of the degree of disability, thus ensuring that the most favourable principle is always applied to the user being evaluated. We know, indeed, that the new interpretation resulted in the elimination of an article and that, in essence, it represents a damage to those who, in any way, had already been attributed a degree of disability and consequently a number of social support that is so necessary and justified due to the difficulties that people with these diseases face in their daily lives and in access to existing responses. We believe that some of the issues that may be raised in this debate should pass, for example, so the Portuguese Cancer League itself has mentioned in this matter, namely the need for an evaluation of the patient's clinical condition and a possible reduction of its disability and this re-evaluation can clearly bring another perspective on the disease. We agree that, whenever there is a new reassessment, it should, of course, take into account the clinical history of this person and always follow what is shown to be more favorable to the person being evaluated. For example, the case of cancer patients in some cases has a 60 % disability, during the initial five-year period after diagnosis, and in other cases 80 %, during seven years, makes this claim perfectly legitimate, too, from other patients. We therefore believe that the proposals presented here and their concern about the impact of this change on people's lives should be treated with greater sensitivity. There is a path that clearly has to be made in this House. If it is true that, since there is improvement in clinical status or limitation, it is important that there is a reassessment, it is also necessary to consider how it will impact the lives of people who, so far, have obtained, fairly and legitimately, social support, the result of the situation in which they were. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u80	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have two legislative initiatives, one of the BE and the other of the CFP, focusing both on the same subject and for the same purpose, i.e. to remove any doubts as to the application of the principle of the most favourable assessment in medical board evaluations. In fact, I pay attention to the current legislative framework, more specifically Decree-Law No 202 / 96, with the wording given to it by Decree-Law No 291/2009, which are the diplomas which ultimately fall within the scope of the disability assessment regime for the purposes of access to the measures and benefits provided for in the Act, it is expressly, moreover, very clearly and unequivocally, that, in the review or re-evaluation processes, the degree of incapacity resulting from the application of the National Table of Occupational Accidental Incapacitys and Diseases, in force at the date of assessment or last re-evaluation, is maintained where, according to the medical board's statement, it is more favourable to the one evaluated. In other words, when, in a revaluation, a lower degree of disability is attributed than that resulting from the initial evaluation or from the last reassessment, what was attributed in the previous evaluation is what is relevant, i.e., that degree of disability is maintained whenever, according to the statement of the medical board, it is more favourable to the person who is being evaluated. It appears that, despite the clarity of the applicable legal provisions, the Tax and Customs Authority, through a circulated office, brought a new and unpublished interpretation of the legal rules, literally overturning the existing legal regime and the objectives and assumptions that guided the construction of this legal regime. We are thus faced with an unprecedented process which would be good if we did not do school because, in good rigour, the result of this process is that a circulated Office of the Tax and Customs Authority amends a legislative act, amends a legal diploma. In practical terms, what we have is a circular office of the Tax and Customs Authority to literally repeal Article 4. o Decree-Law No 202 / 96. However, a circular of the Tax and Customs Authority or a trade of any other body of the central administration may not amend or repeal legal provisions. By this way, one day we will still have a circular office of any body of the central administration seeking to make revisions of our constitutional text. Therefore, we look carefully at the legislative initiatives we are discussing, both the BE and the PCP, because we also consider that there is a need to move away from any possibility of situations that this interpretation has just created. In addition to being a manifest and gross violation of the law and therefore contrary to our legal order, it is still a reflection of absolute insensitivity by people with a degree of disability, who are thus penalized when the law does not permit it. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u82	Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The follow-up of non-COVID-19 care activities, and medical boards in particular, and their coexistence with the response to the care needs arising from the pandemic have been one of the essential concerns of the Ministry of Health and also of Parliament and this parliamentary group, over the past year and a half. The most recent data demonstrate and demonstrate a marked path of recovery of the activity of the SNS ( National Health Service ), which is already aligned with the one performed in the same period of 2019, the year in which the highest care volume was found in our SNS. With regard to the recovery of primary health care activities, the provisional data accumulated in August 2021 show that 24 million total medical consultations were carried out, representing an increase of 19, 7 % over the same period of 2020 and an increase of 14, 5 % compared to the same period of 2019. There were also 18, 3 million nursing consultations. Similarly, the medical boards, which we have been accompanying, have gradually resumed their course, with the consequent issuance of multi-purpose disability certificates, in applicable cases, and it is urgent that they continue to speed up and simplify them. Health has always been at the heart of the priorities and public investment of the Socialist Government and this parliamentary group. In addition, it is enough to look at the State budget: we have allocated EUR 700 million to the SNS. It is also, in fact, a friendly budget for health and people. The legislative initiatives under discussion today, the authorship of the PCP and the Left Block parliamentary groups, which welcome and are worthy of their object, affect the legal regime for assessing incapacity for access to social and tax measures and benefits. In addition, these projects establish, essentially, the principle of the most favourable evaluation in the processes of review or reassessment of disabilities. Thus, it is expected that in cases of temporary disability, in addition to situations of change in the degree of disability resulting from changes in the criteria of the evaluation table, the principle of the most favourable assessment is in force when a change in the degree of disability occurs following the positive evolution of the clinical situation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at each subject for yourself. As regards the need for clarification of the processes of review or re-evaluation of the degree of disability, it is important to stress and clarify that, where changes are recorded or introduced in the criteria for defining the different levels of disability, the most favourable tax benefit will always be recognised for the user. That is, as long as the individual's clinical situation is maintained, the tax benefit continues to be recognised when the revaluation determines a disability of less than 60 % only by applying the new criteria. This exception provided for in the law enables the protection of situations which would be adversely affected by the change in the criteria for the assessment of disability, allowing the application of the most favourable situation. However, and this is another situation, if, in the revaluation, the inability becomes less than 60 % due to the clinical evolution of the user, it appears that there is no longer the assumption of access to the tax benefit, because the incapacity is less than the limit of access to that benefit — without prejudice to safeguarding the already established or already recognised situations, which should be in force until their expiry or expiry. The questions I leave on the table, which are a useful contribution of the PS to this debate, are the following: will it be appropriate or not that, after a re-evaluation of the individual's clinical situation that determines the reduction of his disability below 60 %, is the qualification of fiscally relevant disability maintained? Is it fair and fair that someone with 65 % disability, who has a clinical development that allows for a re-evaluation that determines, for example, 5 % or 10 % disability, maintains the quality of "a person with a fiscally relevant disability" and underlying rights? For example, the law would then be recognising rights to someone who has only 5 % or 10 % disability for several years, only because at the beginning of the treatments it had a disability of more than 60 %, when it clearly limited access to benefits to a specific level of disability, thus ensuring its access to those who have a disability of 50 % for several years. Are those complex issues? They are. Are these sensitive and sensitive questions? They are. They therefore require an in-depth debate in which the PS wants to be a net contributor to it. It's not worth it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here the Manichaean speech of the sensitive and the insensitive. If there is government and if there is a parliamentary group sensitive to the area of health and focused on the intransigent defense of the SNS and its users has been this parliamentary group, it has been the Socialist Party. In addition, the draft laws under consideration may also create another entropy with the diploma that will soon be approved and that will make an amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October, which seeks to expedite, dematerialize and deburocratize the procedures inherent in the establishment of medical boards for the evaluation of disabilities and which sets a different understanding from that which motivates these initiatives. We must therefore converge and look at this plurality of laws which cannot then be contradictory. Finally, the stiffening of the degree of disability and disability, even if the citizen has evolved positively in his pathology, is even contradictory to the recent legislation passed by this Parliament in which he proclaims himself, and well, the right to forget, preventing in future people who have overcome serious diseases, such as cancer, from being discriminated against. The advances of science and therapeutic innovation bring us more and more experiences of overcoming, and more stories of success in combating serious diseases. May the future, in this area, continue to be deeply embedded in the present, for the benefit of the community, for the benefit of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u84	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Bureau has no registrations, I wonder if the parties that have time still intend to use it? [[Pause.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira pointed out to the Bureau that she had the floor for an intervention by Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the debate on the legislative initiative of the CFP, it is important to say the following : of what we are talking about here with this proposal that the CFP brings to vote in the Assembly of the Republic is a clarification, by means of an interpretative standard that we have drawn up, in the face of a circular that has been issued by the Tax Authority, materializing an order from the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, which in practice withdrew rights that were acquired to persons with disabilities or disabilities. Mrs Susana Amador, the honourable Member has used the example of who suddenly has a 5 % disability, and I give you the example of who loses tax exemptions or who loses even exemption on moderate rates with an 58 % disability, Mrs Deputy. We cannot make this assessment in the way that you mentioned here. What we're talking about is rights acquired by users. These rights must be maintained, in particular in a more favourable assessment of those who have the same pathology after medical reassessment. On the functioning of medical boards, there would be much to say, in particular, how long people are waiting for the necessary reassessment to confirm their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u87	This is what we are talking about, and this is what we have to talk about. What it is important to know here, considering the intervention which the honourable Member has made, is how the PS will be positioned in relation to this legislative initiative, in particular, which restores rights which are being withdrawn by an order and by a circular giving body to that same order. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u88	We're moving to the closing phase. Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, we should not have to be discussing these bills here in the Assembly of the Republic, because the current legislation and what was to be the practice, up to the Tax Authority, what was to be the interpretation of the current legislation, which is clear, was only one. It was that, regardless of whether there were changes in table criteria or changes in clinical status — the two things, Mrs Deputy! — the most favourable assessment was always in force. This has always been the case until there was an order by the Secretary of State which resulted in a circulated post by the Tax Authority which, with the same legislation in force, eventually ended with this principle of the most favourable assessment and ended up retroactively withdrawing rights that had been granted. In the light of these two specific cases which the Left Block gave as an example, a person who had an incapacity of 80 % and who, in a revaluation, goes on to an incapacity of 72 % — is not 5 %, Mrs Deputy, is 72 % — has thus retroactively lost the right to the PSI (social benefit for inclusion), and what is asked is : do you think that is correct? Do you really think it's fair? A person who had an oncological disease with a 60 % disability and who in the revaluation goes to 50 %, retroactively has the Tax Authority to say that he will now have to return the IRS and the IUC. Is that fair? Oh, my God! No, it's not fair! [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] It's not fair and that's why we introduced this bill. It is precisely because it has to be restored to the one who was the right that existed. If the Government and the Socialist Party wanted to change that, they would change the law. They did not change to the top, through an office and a circular office that then has these consequences. So if you want to change, you have to have the courage to say that you want to end this support. They cannot do so at the head office of Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs. We are for the maintenance of these rights and that is why we say that there must, unequivocally, be in the law, this principle of the most favorable evaluation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u90	Mrs. Members, let us move to the fourth point of our agenda from which the joint assessment of Lein.o 9 / XIV / 1 projects is generally included. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the permanent financing scheme of the Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport and 964 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) — Establishs the strengthening and evaluation of the implementation and implementation of the Programme of Support for the Reduction of Taxation in Public Transport (PART) and the Programme of Support for the Density and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer ( PROTransP). To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The extension of the intermodal social pass to all careers and to all operators and the reduction in public transport prices, which the CFP has long advocated, meant a huge advance in the accessibility and mobility of populations — children and young people, pensioners and elderly people in particular. from an environmental point of view, it was the largest measure to promote the use of public transport and the reduction of the use of individual transport, which contributes to the reduction of pollutant gas emissions, urban decongestion and to the reduction of energy dependence. Only through this route, it also allowed the workers to have more income available at the end of the month. in some cases, this available income has reached more than 100 €. For years and years, the CFP proposed the extension of the intermodal social pass to all operators and the reduction of prices, a proposal systematically rejected with arguments that life was in charge of proving that they had no correspondence to reality. It was the struggle of the populations, the committees of transport users, the authorities, in particular the authorities managed by the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition ), and the determined intervention of the CFP that allowed price reduction and the enlargement of the pass to be a reality today. There is no doubt about the importance of this measure. It is now important to consolidate it, to give it the force of law through the establishment of the financing scheme of the Programme for the Reduction of Tariffs in Public Transport, as the CFP proposes in the initiative which brings the debate today in the Assembly of the Republic, to ensure stability and not to be dependent on momentary wills or on the annual inclusion of funds in the State budget for this purpose. The CFP initiative responds to three central issues: the progress in reducing public transport costs towards freeness, the national coverage of this freeness and the strengthening of the service to be ensured. To ensure the future of achieving the reduction in prices in transport as well as the expansion of its supply across the country require greater funding without, of course, leading to higher prices for the population. Thus, the CFP proposes the reduction of the contribution of the road service to the value corresponding to what is to be done through the contribution of public public transport service, allowing, in a timely manner, to establish the sustainable financing mechanism of the ART. With this proposal it is ensured that there are no increases in the tax burden, maintaining the total amount of fees in current values, directing part of the public transport resources for the financing of the PART. The reduction proposed for the contribution of the road service does not jeopardise the financing needs of the IP ( Infrastructures of Portugal ), since the government can compensate it through the State budget, but mainly because substantive responses must be taken, namely: to address the problem of road PPPs (public-private partnerships), interrupting the vicious cycle of public spending in the ruinous business for the State and for the public interest ; the adoption of a financing policy guaranteeing stability, predictability, the future prospects for investment and development in infrastructure; and the reversal of the merger of the Stradas of Portugal ( EP ) and the REFER ( National Railway Network ), which has revealed to be disastrous. There are still problems in the implementation of the PART, problems that we do not ignore and that require a concrete response, namely the need to ensure its coverage throughout the territory. The inhabitants of the interior continue to face cost problems and the almost non-existent public transport network, which must be reverted to have access to adequate public transport supply at affordable prices, thus guaranteeing their right to mobility. There are also problems with regard to linkages between regions, with tariffs in those links not to adequately reflect the reductions that we have been defending from the outset, without discrimination, and in particular because the Government, as a transport authority competent in the railway sector, has not taken the necessary measures to ensure the financing of this tariff reduction. Throughout the country there is a need to strengthen the supply of transport, with more availability, quality, regularity. What exists requires serious investment not only in infrastructures and fleets but, of course, in hiring the necessary workers in the various areas. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are conditions for us to go further with the approval of the CFP proposal, ensuring the appropriate financing of the ART so that it can effectively reach the whole territory, to advance the price reduction to its gratuity and the extension of the supply of the public transport network. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u92	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality 2050 points to the potential for reducing emissions in 2030 in the transport sector from 43 % to 46 % compared to 2005 and says, and I quote, that « The decarbonisation of the transport sector will be based primarily on strengthening the role of the public transport system and replacing current fossil fuel vehicles with an essentially electric fleet ». The need and urgency of the decarbonization of the transport sector has as a solution, to a large extent, and as highlighted in the Roadmap of Carbon Neutrality to 2050, the bet on increasing the use of collective transport. The two programmes we have appreciated specifically aim at attracting people to the use of public transport to the detriment of private transport. The PART, by allowing the reduction of the price of use of collective transport, is an incentive for its use. However, the country needs to make the use of collective transport more attractive, by increasing supply and improving quality and intermodality, which the PROTransP intends to respond to. In order for the sector's decarbonization objectives to be effectively ambitious and achieved already in 2030, it is essential at this stage to evaluate the results of the PART and PROTransP, so that you can know how to improve both programs and achieve the objectives of strengthening the use of collective transport and reducing the use of private transport. On the basis of the evaluation carried out, the Government should propose to the Assembly of the Republic the adoption of duly substantiated measures to strengthen and enhance the effectiveness of the PART and PROTransP programmes. We are less than seven years from the point of non-return of the climate stability of our planet. The transport sector represents 25 % of greenhouse gases. We cannot continue to realize that we are betting on the decarbonization of this sector without making a large and effective bet on collective transport, so that people feel that they effectively have the conditions to abandon private transport. And to be careful is the motto of this government. At a time when we have to be more and more ambitious in climate action and we have heard Mr. Prime Minister defending the decarbonisation out there, what did the government do in the State budget for 2022? It lowered the funds devoted to the PART and PROTransP by EUR 140 million compared to EUR 2021, i.e. by more than 40 %, the money devoted to the bet on collective transport in Portugal. In order to support the use of oil products and electricity companies, the government continues to use hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, yes, we have a government that specializes in green washing in Portugal, a government that says that climate action is a priority and does exactly the opposite. And this can't go on like this. Investment in public transport is essential for effective decarbonization and mitigation of climate change and the NAP will continue to demand these commitments for the good of the country's future and for our future on this planet. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u94	You have the floor for the CDS-PP, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives which today the CFP and the NAP bring to us, concerning the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, have different objectives and we also deserve different analyses. I begin with the NAP project, which is simpler, an evaluation of the application of these types of programs, not only of the PART, but also of the PROTransP and its consequences. Until this application has been asymmetric, it is not the same in all regions of the country, and it could not be because — and it is important to say — the reality of public transport is very asymmetric throughout the national territory and the fact that we have a great concentration of population in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto makes sometimes an idea in the country that the reality of public transport is the reality that exists in Lisbon and Porto, when it is exactly the opposite, that reality exists only in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. If we are to discuss this matter, let us not fail to say what we have always said: one of the major concerns about public transport in Portugal must be to make the possibility of public transport available throughout the country, which is not happening today. The NAP proposes this monitoring, calling it the CL-so. from our point of view, nothing against, unless what points to the bill, the creation of a working group, create additional charges, which should be applied in public transport and not in the bureaucracy associated with this; therefore, if not, we have nothing against it. For the CFP, the issue is different. The CFP wants to establish a definitive solution, and then, responsiblely, it makes the whole structure of financing this final reality for tariff reduction and its financing. That is where we find the problems, because it is not enough to say that by reducing the contribution to road service we can finance a new contribution of public transport service and that this has no financial impact. Well, it has impacts. at a time when the great debate, from our point of view, is the reduction of the tax burden on fuels, saying that it does not increase the tax burden is to say that it maintains it. We are entirely against this and we thought that the CFP would also be, because we heard the CFP saying that it would also propose to the Government the reduction of the tax burden on fuels. Now, if you are now consecrating here a stagnation of what is the contribution of the road service, even if you call it something, you are doing exactly the opposite and that we cannot support. On the other hand, the PCP also says an extraordinary thing, says that reducing the contribution of road service does not affect the budget of the infrastructure of Portugal and we will see, then, because it does not affect. It does not affect, in the good style of the CFP, because the State Budget is there to cover what comes out of the contribution of the road sector, therefore exits from the budget of the infrastructure of Portugal and enters through the State Budget. Therefore, all that the CFP had previously said about not increasing the tax burden goes down because, of course, if the State budget has to increase to finance, there is no other way of this money coming but by increasing the tax burden and by the Portuguese paying more taxes. So, what we have to say about the CFP project is that the whole financial structure here is proposed...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u96	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u97	I will finish, Mr. President. It is unsustainable and the only way to sustain it is to increase the tax burden on Portuguese, which we will not support in any way. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u98	Mrs Isabel Pires of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Today we are debating a relevant issue, as we are talking about the bet on public transport, its progressive freeness, the increase in supply, which has an absolutely fundamental impact on combating climate change, particularly in large urban centres, as well as has a very positive impact on family income. In fact, if at the beginning of this process of the creation of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction there were reservations about a proposal with the characteristics which I mentioned, in fact, the results proved and proved that those and those who said that there would come a hecatomb with the reduction of prices were completely wrong. In addition, in 2019, the year of implementation of the PART, for example in Lisbon, more than 150 thousand new passes were sold in the Metropolitan Area and in the national total there were more 22% of passes sold only in the first six months. Therefore, despite the delay in the publication of the ART assessment report, the programme has shown not only a substantial increase in the number of people to use public transport, but also a significant reduction in emissions, which is a central objective in this type of measures and which must be continued. As a programme financed at the moment, it seems to us, from the environmental background, since its creation, which in the various budgets of the State, has undergone changes to increase the value of the money allocated both for the PART and for the PROTransP, which, in fact, would have to happen again, given that the current proposal of the State budget is again of a lower value than it had in the previous year. This has also happened because since early on we have seen the need for a strong investment in tariff policy and the creation and strengthening of the network where it does not exist, particularly in the interior regions and in support of the inter-municipal communities, which are the ones that have the greatest difficulty. Therefore, having begun as a somewhat timid idea by the government, the truth is that progress has been made in the various budgets, with an increase in funds allocated to the programme and expansion throughout the territory. But there are still some challenges, such as, for example, the tariff reduction for movements between inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas or between different inter-municipal communities, because we know that there is not yet this integration of passes, or then the lack of supply within the country. These are the main challenges that we still face and therefore it seems to us that we need to move forward towards the integration of the passages in this type of travel, as well as the articulation and also the integration of the Passes of the CP (trains of Portugal ), which still does not happen in many regions, not all transport authorities have done so, and therefore we need to continue to leverage this effort. at this moment, the bills that are today, here in debate, are related, in the case of the PCP project, to continuity and with a form of permanent funding of this program, being that of the NAP is slightly different. In reality, the CFP represents a project that it has already presented, on which there was no opportunity to debate and, indeed, from our point of view, the environmental fund should be the primary instrument for financing this type of policy. In fact, considering its objective, its scope, the reason why it was created, makes sense that it is so and therefore seems relevant to us to maintain the funds of this fund. Nevertheless, we are open to the most permanent forms of financing, which may be less dependent on an annual decision taken in Parliament to ensure this stability in the public transport service. We have here, in fact, a few questions which can be clarified, in particular how the solution recommended in the CFP project is whether or not it is a revenue itself, considering that it maintains this contribution in the environmental fund, which is already what is financed by the CFP. So we just wanted to clarify this matter. To finish, as far as the NAP project is concerned, it raises some doubts, especially how it is presented. When it proposes, in the form of a bill, a study seems to us that it is ignoring the obligation, which actually already exists in the law, of evaluation of the PART, annually. In fact, the impact assessment report of the ART was included in the law, therefore, is already mandatory. And if we currently have the data is because this report exists and I don't think it will make much sense, being redundant, there is this proposal in the NAP project. Then, in the other article, it only leaves to the Government the possibility of introducing strengthening measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u100	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u101	I will finish, Mr. President. ... without explaining exactly what it is. It seems to us there is a very large indetermination here, especially for a bill. So in conclusion, we will indeed follow the proposals being put forward in this Parliament which have as their objective a clear and unequivocal benefit of strengthening these two programmes, because that is the way we have made and that is the way we will continue to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u102	You now have the floor for the PS, Mr André Pinotes Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u103	Mr. President, I begin, first and foremost, by greeting all colleagues and leaving a particular greeting to whom this House has brought us today, the Bill No. 9 / XIV / 1. a, the PCP, and the Bill No. 964 / XIV / 3. the NAP, which aims in particular at issues relating to the financing, monitoring and monitoring of the Tax Reduction Support Plan, but also of the PROTransP. It is very important that we start with a reference of greater importance at the political moment in which we live. The honourable Member of the CFP had the opportunity to exactly welcome the role of workers, the role of user communities, the role of the struggle of many people, but she did not emphasise — and I wanted to do so — the role that this House played, the role of Parliament, in the most revolutionary package for reducing public transport. In fact, for a matter of justice, I would say that it is not only the role of the Assembly of the Republic, it is the role of the left parties in the Assembly of the Republic, which demonstrate that when the left is united, when the left is cohesive in these objectives, it makes a difference in the lives of people. And we know, sirs. Members — particularly the left-wing Members who have operated this revolution, the PEV, the PAN, the PCP, the PS,, which if we look at an outdoor where Rui Rio or Paulo Rangel, where Nuno Melo or Francisco Rodrigues dos Santos, where João Cotrim de Figueiredo or André Ventura, will not be the answer to public transport, will not be from them, in fact, the answer to social mobility, which is something that tells us much. But it is important that we go to each of these measures. in terms of the NAP initiative, we would say that the spirit of the proposal is to praise. However, we cannot ignore that the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport) has already presented an annual report, which is the one we base on. This is the information we bring here when we talk about the reduction of greenhouse gases, when we talk about the increase of passengers in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, in the metropolitan area of Porto, in the 21 CIM (intermunicipal communities), in the number of passengers transported. We know all of this because there is detailed, national and regional information. The honourable Member rightly points out that we can go further into the scope. We do not understand, however, that this should be done in the form of a letter of law, until, in the hearing we did in this House, we had the opportunity to urge the IMT, which receives information from the transport authorities, which could be more comprehensive. And we are satisfied with this more modernized legislation, which not only sets out the ways to be done, as Parliament is going to provide the information we need. We therefore see the initiative as redundant, even though we praise it in spirit. With regard to the CFP initiative, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to begin by saying that it is in principle favourable to the perennial sources of revenue from the PART and PROTransP. This is, in fact, a path that has to be taken. We do not understand that it can be done with the imbalance of other public bodies and companies, in particular IP. Otherwise, let us see: when we talk about creating a public service contribution that would seek a third of the current contribution to the road service, what we are saying is that of the 675 million that are planned in the Budget for 2022 for the IP, we would withdraw 225 million. It is clear, therefore, that there is an impact. It brings the Communist Party that we could increase the budget allocation. For it is clear that we will always be able to do so, but the Socialist Party does not lack rigour in good accounts and, as such, we must always question ourselves and all other colleagues if we are talking about an increase in the expenditure which is to be covered with more taxes or if we are talking about an increase in expenditure which is to be made with the sacrifice of other public services. So I would say that we agree with the principle. It is, in fact, a path that we consider inevitable. We cannot consider that it is through the reduction of PPPs that this is going to happen because today, we know that, also because of the left-wing majority, the charges with PPPs have been reduced, they have entered a reduction path that by 2036 will be quite marked, continued and stable. These margins that are being released are being re-appliced, but we cannot say that it is only at a time in 2022 that funding will come. The question is therefore a question of balance in the formulation and architecture of the solution we want, for a very simple reason: today we know that the right has become in favour of what we voted against in the past. It happens when the left joins to bring more environmental sustainability, better public service, more quality of life, more income, the right starts by saying no, starts by screaming and crying for irresponsibility, but when the measure is a success, here are to say: « After all, we voted against, but we wanted to vote in favour». Regardless of each person's sense of vote, the PART and PROTransP are a reality that had only one interruption, that was the pandemic, and that made us, in fact, reflect a lot. But there is a question that is far more important than the architecture of this measure and that has to do with the following: we know and the Portuguese know that it is even on the left, it is only on the left that we can take this path and it is, therefore, very important that we can continue to focus on dialogue, because it was with the dialogue on the left, it was with the ambition of the left, it was with the role of this Parliament, that we have achieved the greatest transformation of public transport, the most sustainable measure and the one that social justice brought. It is therefore a path that on the right we do not do and on the left we will be here to continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u104	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens believe it is important to discuss public transport and we welcome the fact that we are again discussing the issue of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, continuing an action for decades in which we never give up our fight for the goal of ensuring that all citizens have the right to mobility. in this sense, the Greens Ecological Party has been defending a set of measures, such as improving and expanding the intermodal social pass, socially fair prices, increasing supply, quality, comfort and security of collective transport, with schedules adjusted to the needs of the population, hiring the necessary workers and combating the privatization of the transport sector. In short, he has been defending a serious investment in public transport. We believe it is really necessary to encourage people to opt for public transport and the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction was one of the most important measures in recent years, at the social level, with very significant savings for families, but above all in the environment. With the reduction of the price and the extension of the scope of the social pass, there were thousands of cars that stopped entering the cities. The effects of the pandemic and the fear that has been promoted in recent months can mean setbacks that it is urgent to fight. The path of decarbonisation, sustainability, respect and protection of the planet is bound to go through the promotion of collective mobility, the development of rail transport, making it reach all district capitals, with affordable prices, the potential that it has in the easy and rapid mobility of citizens, the mitigation of climate change and the fight against regional asymmetries, bringing the different locations of the country closer together, making it closer. After many years of struggles to claim the reduction in transport prices, the PART in public transport was created through the State Budget for 2019, representing a significant reduction in transport prices, especially with greater scope in metropolitan areas, responding to an old demand of populations, users and authorities. This was the decisive step that was missing and, in order for this measure to be fully successful and to achieve the paradigm change that we have been fighting for a long time now, it is important that tariff reductions reach their full potential and that the path to free movement continues, so that there is an effective commitment to promoting public transport, implementing the right to mobility and contributing to the fight against climate change and territorial cohesion throughout the country. However, investment levels in public transport are not yet sufficient and do not fully respond to the interests of the populations throughout the country. And we cannot ignore that the supply of public transport outside the metropolitan areas, when it exists, is very small in response to needs—The Greens have already remembered it often without account— by pushing thousands of citizens to individual transport for lack of an alternative. Establishing the permanent financing scheme of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in Public Transport is the way forward, consolidating the decisions taken so far. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u106	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Mendes, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PART, with a view to attracting passengers to public transport, also seeks to combat the negative externalities associated with mobility and social exclusion. at the level of financing, and according to legislation, it is necessary to support the transport authorities with an annual amount that enables them to operate a criterion of tariff adjustment and supply, through a mechanism that promotes territorial cohesion and with a financing model that guarantees equity between the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and the rest of the national territory. The draft law of the NAP, under discussion, aims at strengthening and evaluating the implementation and implementation of the Programme of Support for the Reduction of Public Transport Tariffs and the Programme of Support for the Density and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer, in the context of the targets of decarbonization to 2030 and carbon neutrality in 2050. In other words, the NAP proposes to consider the effectiveness of the measures in force, the financial resources affected and the cost-benefit ratio to decide, where appropriate, further measures to strengthen the use of collective transport and its financing. The legislative initiative of the PCP, also under discussion, is pragmatic and objective, seeking to establish a sustainable financing scheme of the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport, with the creation of the contribution of public transport service, and this revenue is allocated to the financing of the ART. In sum, the PCP stipulates that one third of the value of road service participation will become affected by the PART. Supported by the taxable persons of the oil and energy tax, this revenue will be integrated into the Environmental Fund and distributed annually by the transport authorities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, being the history of their time and the experience of the mother of all things, the PSD Parliamentary Group finds that the problem of the financial sustainability of the PART has become of concern to other political forces, by coincidence, or not, with the debate of the Budget for 2022. Even now, a few minutes ago, we observed the Socialist Party Member André Pinotes Batista blinking his eye on the left, in this context of the need for approval of the Budget for 2022. The PCP now realized, late, that the PSD's reservations to the approval of the PART at the time made sense, although politically unfriendly, because this Program, deserving of the PSD's agreement for its purposes and objectives, was far from desirable in terms of cohesion and sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u108	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u109	As we have always said, the PART was ill with three problems, which would be, more day-to-day, unavoidable, namely: firstly, the PART is not fair — the regions most benefited are the metropolitan areas, especially that of Lisbon, contrary to the generality of the country, as proved in the last IMT Impact Assessment Report. Only the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon received 70 % of all the funds from the PART of the country, with a capital of 26, 5 € / inhabitants, contrary to the rest of the country, in particular the Upper Mine, which received less than 3 € / inhabitants.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u111	Second, the PART is not socially fair—we have first Portuguese, those who live in metropolitan areas, and second Portuguese, those who live in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u113	Finally, the PART has never guaranteed its sustainability, a fundamental assumption and that it should have been ensured not to compromise this program. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the virtuous proposal of the PCP bill, seeking to solve the sustainability of the PART, creates a new problem, perhaps even more serious, to the company Infrastructures of Portugal, by depriving it of part of its funding sources, which the PCP easily considers beyond the State budget or revision of PPPs. That is, PCP still believes there are free lunches!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u115	As reality has surpassed fiction, many of the observations and suggestions of ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ), some of which are reflected in the conclusions of the IMT report on the PART, come to meet the concerns of the PSD, although we recognize the positive contribution of the PART in attracting more passengers to the public transport system. In short, it is necessary to implement an investment programme that prioritizes public and public transport, with the increase in supply in quantity and quality, promoting economic and social development and territorial cohesion; it is necessary to strengthen the amounts affected by the PART in order to ensure the financing capacity of transport authorities throughout the country, eliminating the current maximum "one country, two realities"; finally, the solution for the financial sustainability of the PART cannot be reached at the expense of more taxes and the subtraction of revenue from other entities, whose activity is fundamental to territorial cohesion and development of the Country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u116	You have the floor for an intervention, as Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP still has.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to leave some notes here on what the debate has been. Firstly, Mr André Pinotes Batista, the NAP is not a left party, it is not a right party either, but as a moderate and bridge party, we will have to negotiate until the last minute, until the last second. Then, in particular, clearly, with regard to some redundancy criticisms that were made, it was not possible to distinguish what is a report from a study. What the NAP proposes is not a report. What the NAP proposes is a serious, in-depth study to understand whether it was through the PART that the people who use public transport have abandoned their private transport, or not, because we do not forget that this is the main reason for the existence of the PART, something that the NAP obviously supports and for which it wants greater funding, but also wants more responsible funding, more equitable, and that it also goes to areas that are not only the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u118	I believe that we can move on to the conclusion of this debate. For this purpose, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor by the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we would also like to add the following: the proposal that we bring here with regard to the PART and the need to strengthen its funding, in order to move forward towards reducing public transport tariffs and extending supply, is a good example of the answers that are needed for the problems faced by workers, the people and the country. In fact, we have brought this matter to debate today, but we could talk about many others, and the question is, in fact, what is the answer that is effectively intended to be given to the people in the face of these problems, if it is to leave them at the mercy of the choices of the right parties. We don't think so. If it were for PSD and CDS today, there would not be a social pass with much lower prices, there would be workers to continue paying passes in the order of 100 € or 150 €. In fact, this reduction was very significant, not only from the point of view of the available income of families and workers, but also from the option of public transport. We have a problem: it is necessary to articulate the tenders of the various public transport operators, it is necessary to strengthen the supply of transport and we are not talking only about the metropolitan areas. We believe that these measures must be transversal throughout the country and that the extension of the public transport network should indeed be done at national level as a element of cohesion, but also as an element contributing to improving accessibility and mobility of populations. This is the central issue, because the reduction in the tariff, which is necessary to ensure for the whole country, must add the increase in supply. Finally, I would like to say the following: there has been no lack of proposals by the CFP — because this was an element invoked here in the discussion — to increase revenue, including that of the State. We have presented several to tax the economic groups and the great capital, but what we see is a convergence to prevent these proposals. Even the reversal of PPPs is very significant, because it would allow the channelling of public resources which, rather than going to economic groups, would be invested, in this particular case, for example, in improving public transport. We are not going to follow the NAP initiative because the priority is indeed to move towards reducing costs and extending the public transport network and, as we all know, this enlargement is necessary because in many regions it is very insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u120	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u121	I will finish, Mr. President. The proposals that the CFP brings here are a good basis for working towards finding solutions that allow the consolidation of this programme and that it can progress in these objectives: to advance in the tariff reduction up to its gratuity and to extend the offer of public transport, so important that it is for the development of our country. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u122	We will now move on to the fifth item on the agenda, the joint discussion of the Draft Deliberation No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Evocative session of 25 November and of Resolution Projects Nos 70 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government propose to Mr. President of the Republic the allocation of the Freedom Order to the persons who have contributed decisively to the triumph of democracy and freedom on 25 November 1975 and 45 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — For the solemn celebration of 25 November. To present the CDS projects, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to answer a question, which is why we are discussing this project today. Normally, in many legislative sessions, there is difficulty in discussing this project being able to coincide with the date itself, i.e. on 25 November, and this year will not be an exception, because we are often in budgetary work. Secondly, the reason why we present these two projects is because the date of November 25 is not only a historic date as a decisive date in the democratic process in Portugal. Replying in advance to the end of many debates on this matter, it should be stressed that, in our view, the recall of 25 November does not diminish the importance, weight, solemnity and relevance it has, as the day of the celebration of freedom and democracy, on 25 April. Nothing! One thing doesn't interfere with the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u125	On 25 April, by determined and courageous action of the Captains of April, of the military who were with them and of the people who joined them on the streets of Portugal, a authoritarian regime fell and expired. A revolution began. On 25 November, once again, through the action of moderate and courageous soldiers, I remember one who sat here for so many years with us, on the bench of the Socialist Party, Marques Júnior, a man of 25 April, a man of 25 November and a great Parliamentary—that the revolution started would be for a pluralist democracy and Western model, opening the way for the Constituent and the Constitution itself of 1976. On 25 November it marked the end of the Prec ( Revolutionary Period in Course), i.e. it marked the end of the « hot summer», which from there became a smooth and democratic autumn. We had before had the siege of Parliament, a government on strike, the bombings, and it was the action of these soldiers that guaranteed the victory of those who imposed that Portugal was a democracy as it is today and not a dictatorship in the Cuban, Albanian or North Korean style. That is what was decided on 25 November. Some, even connected to November 25, tell us: "We should not celebrate what divides us. Do not keep on seeking. ” I would ask: divide? Oh, my God! No, it doesn't divide us, we're all here, from the leftmost benches to the rightmost benches, we're here because of November 25th. On 25 November, we are not divided, together, together, together in this Chamber, together, around democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u127	Who can be against? Who can feel that division? It will obviously be some nostalgic of the PREC or some who have the Saudis to think that it would have been good for Portugal to have become a communist dictatorship, replacing one dictatorship with another. What do we propose? We propose two very simple things. First, an evocative session. There have already been those who defended more than that, who defended an annual solemn session, who even defended a holiday, but what we bring today is, from this point of view, also moderate: an evocative session, a session in the form in which Parliament decides, under the model that this House will decide, but which, year after year, recalls that historic, important and decisive date. On the other hand, we propose that the personalities involved on 25 November be distinguished, that the President of the Republic be proposed to distinguish many of these personalities with the Order of Freedom. Many of them were distinguished, life distinguished them: Mário Soares, Sá Carneiro, Freitas do Amaral, Ramalho Eanes — who was President of the Republic —, heroic Colonel Jaime Neves, Tomé Pinto. Many of them deserve to be honored and distinguished, but also, perhaps, those who, more anonymously, were on November 25, civil and military personalities, recalling, for example, that there were two young commanders, José Coimbra and Joaquim Pires, who were killed to climb the Help Footwear with Jaime Neves Regiment. All these, all those who did on 25 November, deserve this distinction, deserve to be evoked as heroes of the freedom that they are. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u128	To present the project of the party Arrival, Mr. André Ventura has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 25 April 1974 a regime which had not yet been passed on to the Portuguese was dropped, but on 25 November it was fully complied with on 25 April. What happened on 25 November was not only the restoration of freedom as its full effectiveness, of the dream that had been a few months before the thought of the April military. There is no 25 April without 25 November. Therefore, Mr Telmo Correia, perhaps our proposal is a little more ambitious than the CDS proposal. We want a holiday on 25 November and an evocative session on 25 November. If it were not for November 25, Parliament would probably end up in this line that is in front of me today. None of this would exist in this Parliament and I think that everyone on the left and on the right recognises the importance of pluralism and freedom in the society in which we live today. What happened on 25 November was the full implementation of what would have been on 25 April which did not originate the Prec, which did not originate the containment and elimination of the liberal economy, which did not end the freedoms and which did not propose the end of press freedom. On 25 November we carried out, with the memory and history of many, such as President Ramalho Eanes, the History of Portugal as we celebrate it today, in democracy. Some say that history is divisible and that therefore we should not celebrate dates. But to celebrate April 25 without November 25 is to tell one part of the country that is wrong and the other part that is right. When we all celebrate freedom we must do so for all and for all and not only for a part of society that, on 25 April or 25 November, has succeeded. This Parliament is all, of all Portuguese who have turned on or not on 25 April and 25 November. It's everyone's, those who liked and those who liked less. It's from those who are out there, those who like them and those who don't like the political forces that are here. To say 'yes' to 25 November is to say 'yes' to the enormous pluralism that exists today in Portuguese society, it is to demand and have the courage to break up with the most aggressive extreme left we have in Portugal and to make a historical revisionism that has never been seen in our history; it is to have the courage to say that it is because of this freedom that we are here today and that freedom that we can celebrate Portuguese democracy. Mr President, I will end this by asking for the following: we have been looking at 25 November with huge historical ghosts. This is the time to look at November 25 as an episode of freedom and struggle, which everyone, from left to right, can celebrate together for a better country. To do the opposite is to say that some were wrong and others were right. I want to continue to believe that there is room for everyone in democracy, even when they are wrong, even when I think a large part of our political forces today is wrong. Democracy is everyone's, and it is for everyone that we should do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u130	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u131	Celebrating November 25 with a holiday and an evocative session is fundamental to taking on democracy in Portugal. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP Member Miguel Arrobas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u132	You now have the floor, by the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For those who think that we have a liberal democracy today this is not due to 25 November, I remember only this efemeride: on the next 12 November 46 years will pass since this House was kidnapped. A sovereignty body seized by trade unions controlled by the CFP, which never said it had only 12% in the first democratic elections this year. I wish you could have that 12 % now! This was the culmination of a systematic attack on the democratic rule of law, which they called PREC, a process that the PCP began and of which the extreme left, of which the Block is heir, to so many, took advantage. It is for the PREC that we owe the nationalizations « to the three panes », the repercussions of which we are still paying today; the wild occupations in which even the peasants understood why the outbreak was of the cooperative; political sanitation to thousands; the arrest warrants blank; the assaults and seizures of embassies and the closure of free newspapers. The PREC began a system of terror; November 25 ended with the PREC. Forty-six years later there are parties that only celebrate April 25th and others that only celebrate November 25th. And we have the PS, which, because it attacked communists and bloggers, chose to become devaluation on November 25 and thus betray their historical legacy. In the Liberal Initiative we joyfully celebrate both dates: the first, which freed us from a dictatorship, and the second, which prevented us from falling into another. For us, only in November did we actually begin to do April. A country that does not care for its historical memory is doomed to repeat the same mistakes. We therefore have a duty to recall on 25 November, because without it we would not have the freedom to fight for a better and more liberal Portugal today. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, CH and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u134	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 25 April is indeed the brightest moment in the history of our country, the brightest moment in the secular struggle that the Portuguese people have waged against all forms of oppression, obscurantism and repression. On 25 April, it is indeed the brightest moment in national history, not only for having put an end to 48 years of a dark fascist dictatorship, but, above all, for having succeeded in tearing up horizons of hope, of building a truly free and democratic society, where respect for each other and the principles of equality, democracy and freedom were "living proof" in the construction of social life, where progress, development and social justice were, in fact, objectives to be pursued throughout society. This luminous moment in national history has given us many of the achievements that we are still seeking to value and we must value, in our day to day, the importance that, even today, more than 40 years after 25 April, continues to have in our lives. On 25 April he ended the war, brought us peace and, with our peace, also brought the peace of other peoples who fought for their freedom and independence. On April 25, it brought those who knew only shoes on Sunday living conditions, access to health, education, the right to a decent wage, the minimum wage. Those who had never known anything other than exploitation, disease, inequality, brought them the right to a happy life, in which they could perform themselves personally and professionally, in which they had access to health care even if they had no money to pay them, in which they had protection in old age, disease, disability, in which they had the right, in fact, to be full-bodied men and women, with access to education and culture, to be able to be truly free. April 25 was indeed a bright moment in our history. We can say that all these achievements of April 25 were reflected in the text of the Constitution. It is true that many of them were conquered and imposed in practice and only then legitimized by power, recognized by law and even recognized by the Constitution, but the 1976 Constitution is the reflection of all these achievements and this process of progress without parallel that the Portuguese society and people have succeeded in conquering and building. Our Constitution, even today, 45 years after it has been adopted, continues to have a very important role, not only in the direction of this future of progress, development and social justice that we want to build in our country, but to an international point of view, affirming itself as one of the most progressive and advanced constitutions in the world. It is one of the most progressive and more advanced constitutions not only by achievements, individual rights, individual freedoms, the guarantee of political and democratic freedoms, but above all by the very important content of the social rights it enshrines, the collective rights it does not abdicate, these foundations for a future of development, progress and social justice. We know that this Constitution included in the vote for its approval with the vote against the CDS, the author of the initiatives that motivated the scheduling of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u136	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u137	For the CDS, there would be no constitution, as it exists. There would be no constitutional consecration of freedoms, democracy, equality, social justice, progress and development. [[PCP and PS applause.]] [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u138	The PS beating hands? Oh, my God! It's extraordinary! You have to learn something from history!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u139	The arrival also brings an initiative to this debate, which it does not admire, dealing with the heirs of those who were defeated by the process of 25 April, defeated by this luminous construction that was the April Revolution. No wonder he did.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u140	So much ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u141	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at today's situation, looking at the country and the national reality today, we can say that, fortunately, the CDS and the Arrival were set up alone in this debate and they had no one else to accompany them in these initiatives. But the challenge that I leave to everyone is that they reflect on the ways to develop and fully realize this horizon of hope that April 25 brought us, implementing the values and the April project that the Constitution continues to enshrine, taking as far away as it is necessary to take the response to the problems of the Portuguese people, because it is in response to the Portuguese people that is the key that prevents reactionary and antidemocratic forces from manipulating people from their despair. Let us give this answer that the Portuguese people demand of us. We fulfill the liberating project of April, because this is the best tribute we can pay to all those who, for 48 years, fought for it and built it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u142	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u143	I conclude, Mr. President. The challenge that I wanted to leave to all Members of this House who see themselves in the liberating, democratic and emancipating project of 25 April and in the constitution that enshrines it, in addition to shaking the mofo of previous interventions,... [[PCP, ENP and PS Members applauded.]] ...to accompany me in the true greeting that is justified today: live on April 25th! [[Viva!]] [[PCP, PS, ENP and BE Member José Manuel Pureza applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u144	I'm glad Mário Soares isn't here to see this!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u145	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u146	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u147	To defend the honour, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u148	Can you say, honourable Member, how did you feel offended?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u149	Mr. João Oliveira associated the party with the forces defeated on 25 April 1974. [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u150	No one knew!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u151	That, of course, is something we cannot live with.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u152	The honourable Member then has two minutes to intervene. You have the floor, for the defence of honor, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u153	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, we certainly have very different views of the world and Portuguese society, but there is one thing that Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u155	The honourable Member and this bench are not owners of 25 April, they are not owners of those who have returned freedom to Portugal. Mr President, like many others here today, perhaps he was nowhere on 25 April 1974, as I certainly was not on 25 April 1974.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u156	He wasn't born! What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u157	But you do not have the right to go up there to the rostrum, and to say that here, on this side of the bench, are the enemies of April and that there, on that side of the bench, are the great supporters of April,... [[Protests by PS MP Eduardo Baroque de Melo.]] ... even because, Mr, it is very wrong to tell you that the Arrival is a party against 25 April when so many voters currently vote on the Arrival, the Alentejo and Setúbal. It is very wrong for you to betray your electorate in this way, to betray so many that, even in January, they gave half a million votes to a presidential candidacy and left theirs with 3% or 4%. To say that this half a million Portuguese is fascist, that half a million Portuguese would like to have Oliveira Salazar or Marcelo Caetano in front of the government is a disgrace and an ignominy that Mr. Mr. Deputies may not like the arrive, the CDS, the PSD. It's your right. You have no right to say that freedom is yours. If we are in this debate today, it is because we have different world views. It was very easy for me to get here and say that Mr. Member is the heir to the Soviet Union, Albania, Romania or Cuba. [[President. — The next item is the report (Doc.]] Certainly, you would not be happy to hear that your party is the successor of these forces, because I recognize participation in the democratic regime, the right to participate in the democratic regime and the intelligent and rational intervention of participation in a democratic regime. That is why I do not think it would be good for you to ostracize other forces of Parliament, as if they were the April and April ar autos and others were against April. Here, I think we can all say this: we are all for freedom, even though we have different views of the country we want to build.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u158	You have the floor to explain, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, I never thought that, in calling for the defence of honour, Mr Ventura wanted to retrieve references from election results, especially after he was still looking for who was the third political force in the elections. [[Rice from the PCP and from the MEP of the PEV Mariana Silva.]] However, I would like to say the following: it is obvious that this debate will always be subject to a subjective assessment by each of us, but there are some objective elements that we can prove. On 25 April we put an end to a regime of hate, I repeat, of hatred, in which some people were hated by the color of the skin, by their ethnic and social origin. We've put an end to that hate regime. We cannot make irrelevant statements that, in many circumstances, recover this record of discussion, of cleavage, of accentuating hate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u161	... depending on the fundamental characteristics of each person, which must, in essence, be respected as they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u163	When the Portuguese people, on 25 April, put an end to the Fascist regime, put an end to a regime which condemned, for almost half a hundred years, Portuguese to the deepest misery, I repeat, to the deepest misery, put an end to a regime in which people were given the possibility to be decision-makers in relation to the lives of others, because of the conditions of socio-economic inequality that were imposed, by the true dictatorship of monopolies and latimunds that constituted the Fascist regime. Now, all the bleaching of that regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u164	What whitening? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u165	... all attempt to erase the absolutely corrupt character of the fascist regime, all this attempt to bleach that which was, for 48 years, the violence of the dictatorship of monopolies and latifundia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u166	What are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u167	... must be assumed by those who make these speeches. If Mr. André Ventura felt somehow touched by the fact that I said, from the top of that rostrum, that the Arrival is an heir party to those who were defeated by the forces of 25 April, it is because Mr. André Ventura there found some element that identified him with that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u168	Oh! That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u169	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u170	With this, I conclude, Mr President. Mr Ventura has to pass another test, which is the test of practice, because it is in practice that the actions of people and their attempts must be truly evaluated. I want to tell you something, Mr André Ventura : about Moura, I believe that what we have seen in recent days gives you great demands to really explain where you are, as a democrat, when you should be fighting hatred,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u172	... when, in fact, it increasingly creates conditions for hatred among people, whether racially or for whatever reason, to be a dominant in Portuguese life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u173	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u174	You can count on the contribution of this party, as happened before 25 April, in order to combat, with all our strength, this speech of hatred, fracture and conflict among the Portuguese, which you are trying to encourage. [[PCP, PS, BE, PAN and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u175	This fat must be all because of the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u176	We will resume the debate at the point where it was. Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have seen, this debate is alive and, of course, dates as important as April 25 or November 25 always refer us to memories of times we do not want to go back. In fact, in this debate, much has already been said, even in the words of Mr João Oliveira, who, of course, fully endorses, when he says that on 25 April a regime of hate has ended: social hatred, ethnic hatred, hate at various levels. You're absolutely right. But on 25 November it also ended a regime of socio-economic hatred or even social divergence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u178	Well, well! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u179	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u180	For this reason, we believe that on 25 November it was and is very important to ensure the political stability of the country, stability that the country needed exactly to achieve the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u181	All right! Great lesson of democracy that the PAN gives to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u182	Once again I underline and subscribe to Mr. João Oliveira's words, when he says that April 25 is one of the brightest times in our country's history. No doubt! On 25 April a truly revolutionary process began, but it also, of course, originated a strong period of instability, which culminated in the hot summer of 1975. But it was necessary to make this process, otherwise we would never have left the cake strain in which we were during the New State period. For the NAP, on 25 November, it effectively marked the end of this period of instability, so it is an integral part of the revolutionary process initiated on 25 April. However, speaking again about the questions of the proposals put forward, we believe that the evocative or solemn session of 25 November could make some sense, but for us, it would indeed be much more important to have an evocative or solemn session in this Parliament to hold on 2 April 1976, the day of the adoption of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u184	That, yes, would make much more sense to this House to celebrate. Finally, the CDS proposal recommends that the main figures of 25 November be enshrined in the Freedom Order.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u185	That's right! Mário Soares!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u186	In fact, this has already been done. The main figures of 25 November 1975 already have this decoration and we therefore consider it not to be minimally necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u187	For an intervention, you have the floor by the PSD, Mr André Coelho Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with the topic that brought us to this debate, which is 25 November and a set of proposals on 25 November, I dare say that almost all of Mr. João Oliveira's intervention could serve as a basis for the proposals put forward by the CDS. It is that there are historical facts that are unforgettable and when we want to look at history as a whole we cannot look at part of history and not look at it as a whole. I read a very short text from the suspicious historian Raquel Varela, who says: « In the context of the armed forces crisis,... »
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u189	Unsuspected, unsuspecting, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u190	Unsuspected! The text says: « In the context of the armed forces crisis, the PS alliance, the Group of Nine and on the right hand sought to create a solid direction and organized and prepared a military coup that will take place on 25 November 1975, beginning the consolidation of the democratic, liberal regime in Portugal ». That's what started on November 25. But this was the case on 25 April. In fact, I wanted to say something very clear: if Mr Ventura said that on 25 April it is « part», because I do not know which side it is. It is the PSD of absolute certainty. April 25 is also the PSD, as is yours and those who consider it yours. It's from Portugal. But let us put the story as it is, and it is exactly as Mr Telmo Correia said: 25 November is decisive in the national democratic process. Not wanting to take this is not wanting to see the story as it is. It is the Socialist Party that does not want to honor its own history.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u191	Exactly your own story!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u192	Honor your own history and the fundamental importance that Mário Soares had at this Portuguese historical moment, especially in international connections with England. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] If you will allow me, speaking on November 25, I remembered that many years ago, in 2006 I gave a speech, on April 25, in Guimarães, on my land, in the Municipal Assembly. And he said, at the time, this: "Invoking democracy is to remember that it does not allow owners and does not allow exclusions, to claim property of values and to claim the exclusive paternity of a regime is pure display of arrogance. while celebrating democracy is forced to be remembered the importance of figures such as Mário Soares, Francisco Sá Carneiro or Freitas do Amaral, which prevented Portugal from moving from one extreme to the other,... »
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u193	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u194	«... keeping only the dictatorial affinity. It is worth noting that it was also on 25 November 1975 that it was consolidated on 25 April 1974, thereby slamming the doors of democracy and freedom. Do not keep on seeking. ” That is to say, I was pleased to recall that I have done this intervention 15 years ago, which, in essence, today, I can bring to the present. And I can check the consistency of these words in the face of what is mine and our convictions still today. So what is important is the following: point one, history is not recast, it is as it is; point two, we will relativize the importance of the different moments, because if November 25 consolidated democracy, it was conquered on 25 April. And if Portugal celebrates April 25, we do not see the need to celebrate on November 25, despite what we just said. When was Portugal founded? On June 24, 1128, in the battle of S. Mamede? Was it October 5, 1143, in the Zamora Treaty? Was it May 23, 1179, on the Probatum Manifestis Bull? It's really up to this date, but without the others it didn't happen. Therefore, the PSD is comfortable with the importance that the Portuguese State attaches to 25 April, because we believe that this importance includes the importance that it undoubtedly had on 25 November. That said, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: we only regret that these subjects serve a kind of political iron arm where one seeks to display what is disunited instead of looking for what unites. It is a position in which the PSD is not, because it is comfortable with the enormous importance of 25 April and with the enormous importance of 25 November. We clearly believe that what Portuguese democracy needs is not to be discussing issues and dates that may divide us. What we need is that the parties seek what unites us, who seek understanding, instead of seeking disagreements. And it is in this role of moderation and not to see only one part or one page of history, but to see all the pages, to never neglect — on the contrary, honor — the importance of 25 November, which the PSD is comfortable to celebrate on 25 April, which was indeed the date of freedom in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u195	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following several speeches, I think it is clear what this debate really is about, because, as far as we are concerned, no one denies the relevance of November 25 in the history of contemporary Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u197	We deny, we deny!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u198	History addresses it systematically. Did anyone delete November 25 from the collective historical memory? No, no, no. Were the main figures of 25 November or were not fundamental figures of Portuguese democracy at that time and then? The answer is always positive. On 25 November it was not extinguished, it is not a matter of recovering something that has disappeared or of reviving a memory of something that has been lost. The question is therefore: what is this debate about? Basically, and with all due respect for the proponents, this debate, above all, is a provocation brought to this House, in order to sow discord, by whom, not having a vision of the future, takes refuge in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is a mistake for collective memory, it is a mistake for history and how we view it and how we build our institution to bring an option that, not innocently, devalues April 25, relativizing it. That is precisely what provokes the challenge to this initiative. It is not about denying November 25 or the historic role that the Socialist Party played in it. This is out of the question in this debate, assumed as part of the integral history of this bench, which here stands up face-to-face at all times. But on 25 November we did not act to relativize the importance of 25 April and of the truly founding moment of Portuguese democracy, of freedom, of the moment when all Portuguese, almost without exception, were on the street in 1. the May one, affirming « we are free, finally, at the end of 48 years of dictatorship». [[P.S.'s applause.]] And relativization is easy to demonstrate. This House, perhaps, celebrates the 1st. o December 1640? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u199	But the country celebrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u200	Does this House celebrate October 5, 1910 with a solemn session? Oh, my God! This House celebrates June 10th...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u201	It's a holiday!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u202	...or August 24, 1820? Oh, my God! It does not, even though they are national holidays, because, precisely, it found a modality of national union around founding dates, dates that have their own space, either in the city of Lisbon, to celebrate the Republic, either descend the Avenue of Liberty on 25 April, with the popular commemorations, or through the organization of the Historical Society of Independence of Portugal, n. 1. on December, in the Restorers. Portugal has always had the ability to celebrate the dates that unite, which have federated, which make this community 900 years old, today, a free community that chooses its dates, but that clearly, at all times, when it celebrates them, when it values collective memory, when it values independence, liberal constitutionalism, the Republic, the national day—we are of the few countries that celebrate a poet on their national day, which also says a lot about the national soul, and which is something important— never one of these dates is used and instrumentalized against the other. I believe that today — Mr Coelho Lima spoke of the same spirit that we share — what we must mobilize in this House must be precisely the common points, those which, without any doubt, for all those who are unequivocally democrats — today, unfortunately, we cannot say, as we said in the past, for all 230 who sit here and who are democrats —... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u203	The same conversation again?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u204	... this federal date and must continue to federation. In conclusion, if you want to pay tribute on 25 November and to the men and women who have done so and who have ensured that democracy followed the path of freedom, then learn the lesson of the men and women who did on 25 November. Remember the words of Melo Antunes the next day, remember what was the legacy and the construction that Ramalho Eanes, Vasco Lourenço and so many others of the Group of the Nine built, which was always a spirit of moderation, of national reconciliation and never to use that day as a subterfuge, as a form, at the bottom, of dislocation, or of making a second round of April 25, excluding some of something that should be of all. If we want to honor the moderates of 25 November, if we want to honor the men of the Group of Nine, if we want to honor the people who went out on the street on that day and who guaranteed the path that the Republic and democracy have built, then it is not with initiatives that we do, because we dishonor the effort of those who lost their lives on that day, we dishonor the effort of those who wanted the national community to be one again and approve a constitution and here defend it for 45 years and continue, we hope to defend, for the next 45 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u205	Is it just hiding that we celebrate?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u206	For this, for all this, there is no need to use elements of these, which sow discord. We should not use elements that distance us when we should try to get closer again. That is why we will not follow this solemn proposal. It is not because we have any shame on 25 November or because we no longer recognize its historical importance, because — and as Mr Coelho Lima also noted — we see ourselves in the celebration of 25 April as the founding moment of this democracy here. And if we want to relativize it, the best contribution to this was to try to realise that it is not the date that actually mobilizes hundreds of thousands of people on that day and that today millions of Portuguese continue to see it as theirs. in this context, now, the suggestion of decorations — to add and to finish — also seems silly, so to speak, since the House itself, through its President, has the possibility to make these suggestions. What does the House do in any way to recommend to the Government that it propose to the President of the Republic something which, in the parliamentary sphere itself, is possible to do? In our perspective, of course, from time to time, what are the values in which we see ourselves. And it should also be clear to all, in the House, that what we should mobilize, fundamentally, is to build an inclusive society and community, with space for all and without the opportunistic search for elements to divide where we should be fed. in this sense, perhaps with less emphasis...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u207	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u208	I shall conclude, Mr President. in this sense, perhaps with less emphasis, than the Republic, democracy, on 25 April and in these words, we continue to remember what unites us and makes us Portuguese proud to be free. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u209	What would Mário Soares say about this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u210	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for a speech by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To discuss the past is to dispute the present and the future. This debate is about that. It is a retroactive dispute about the scope of the transformation of the Portuguese society opened on 25 April that the CDS and the Arrival want to make when they present these proposals today. The Left Block enthusiastically accepts this challenge. The celebratory emphasis on the right to 25 November is the way that the right has to decrease what we celebrate on 25 April. What the right has to do with the celebration on 25 November is to celebrate on 25 April one day, but not the rupture that that day has opened. The right has never forgiven the fundamental changes started in April. It has never forgiven that the conquest of rights by the bottom has not been just a limited grant of rights by the top. It has never forgiven that this conquest has been, as always has to be, the result of a revolution with all that revolutions have of turbulence, destabilization, consequent criticism of powers — the macros and micro powers — installed. The right has never forgiven that the economic power of the old, that the cultural domination of the old, that the political silence desired by the usual has been radically challenged. Celebrating the 25th of November in conjunction with the 25th of April is the expression of a desire on the right to erase the Revolution, to erase it in the past so that it can easily erase what it has left for the present we have and for the future we want. To this vengeful look we oppose the courageous lucidity that made Jorge Sampaio con cuar with a word of order the most ambitious of the programs for Portuguese society: 25 April always! We do not regret the ways of transformation walked after April, we pride ourselves on them. In housing, in the rights of women, in educational practices, in the National Health Service, at work, in the neighborhoods and villages, in the politics of the earth, in determining the life of each and every one, the changes that were conquered, and which the right always abbused, were the freedom to pass through here. Yes, the right has always fought—and fights here again today—the challenging sense of what the song proclaims: "There is only real freedom when there is peace, bread, housing, health, education. When the people belong to what the people produce». No, the paths we went to meet this statement were not diverted on 25 April, it was April 25th. The story that the CDS and the Arrival want to enthrone with these proposals is the history of the normalization of economic and social power that was shaken in the weeks and months after April. What the CDS and the Arrival want us to celebrate is the rescue of the power of the families that were donated from the country and that the privatizations brought back, cutting the path to the shame of giant cambalachos, such as that of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo), which the country will pay for decades with the money of wages, pensions and public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u212	Like TAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u213	When Portugal spares itself from having more time of democracy than of dictatorship and from the fiftieth anniversary of 25 April, it is the history of a Revolution, in all its dimension, that we are called to celebrate. No apology. And with all the determination to democratically defeat those who would like the Revolution, as a process of great change, not to have happened. But it happened. And that's what we celebrate on this side. [[Congratulations from BE and PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u214	Mr Telmo Correia, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u215	To exercise the statutory right to defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u216	Mr President, do you mean to tell us what you felt the honor of your bench was offended?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u217	Mr José Manuel Pureza has just made a series of statements and so many other insinuations that the CDS would be a revenge party, against 25 April, which wanted to delete on 25 April, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u218	You have the floor, sir. As you know, it has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u219	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr José Manuel Pureza, serenely, the following: all the ideological radicalism that he put in his statements and interventions has nothing new, is known, and not even too much worth. It is, in essence, the ideological radicalism of those who have as idols, as heroes and as figures who most admire those who, at that time, would have led us all to those whom you call "right" to any Small Field. None of this is new. We know that, we followed that story. If others have forgotten her, we don't forget. What I wanted to say is that it is offensive and that I do not admit it and that it is, moreover, deeply unfair — I must say that I would not expect it from you — is when he tells us that we want to delete April 25. Read our project! April 25 is the day of the Revolution, and it will always be the day of the Revolution. A Revolution that is not yours, because yours was defeated on 25 November. A Revolution that is of all Portuguese and that has brought us democracy. I do not propose to replace one holiday with the other... and now Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves was informed, because perhaps, you do not know, that on 5 October and 1 December are holidays...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u220	Thanks to the parliamentary left!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u221	...and I don't think there's a problem with that. He just doesn't seem to know. The only thing I propose is that this date, for its importance in the revolutionary process, be marked with an evocative session. In my opinion, Mr President, it may be a conference, a colloquium — as the CDS has always done and will continue to do — but there is an evocation in the parliamentary framework of a remarkable date. That is why your statement that we want to erase April 25 and its importance, in addition to being offensive — we would never do so, nor would that be my intention — is deeply unfair, because that is not what we propose. Graduation is made in the proposal itself. On 25 April, he has a solemn session in the Assembly every year. What we propose is that there be an evocation of this other date. And we agree with the proposal that there should also be a reference to the approval of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Why not? We voted against the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976, but we would vote in favour of the Constitution as it is today - however, there were constitutional revisions and everyone realize why in 1976 we voted against - we would not have any problem in doing so, it is an important date that we think should be evoked.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u222	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u223	And the Order of Freedom is not for the great figures, because they have already been honored, but precisely for those other figures, the military, those who participated, those who helped the 25 November. That's what we propose. And our position is clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u224	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u225	Mr President, as I said, I believe that Mr. José Manuel Pureza's speech, in addition to being an ideological statement, was deeply unfair in relation to the proposal we are making today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u226	Mr José Manuel Pureza, wishing, has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u227	Mr President, I confess that if you were to corrupt my honour, I would defend it in a way far more vehemently, much stronger, much less shocking than that which Mr Telmo Correia put in what he called 'honour defense' and that it was no defense of any honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u228	radicalism responds in moderation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u229	Mr Telmo Correia, I am now responding. I have listened to it with all due respect, now let me answer and hear with the respect you can. Mr Telmo Correia said he didn't expect me to make a statement like the one I did. I didn't expect anything else from you anymore. With all my frankness, I didn't expect anything else from you in repeating the defense from the point of view that made the CDS present this project. This project, Mr Telmo Correia, as has already been said—and not just for me—is a project that clearly wants to divide and to mark a position regarding history. In fact, there are two projects that want, no less, to make a historical statement, to shape an understanding of history. And you may well say that you do not want to be attacked on 25 April. However, what you want to mean is clearly — and I maintain this — that there is a process of profound social transformation that begins on 25 April and that you do not accept,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u230	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u231	... that you judge in a completely critical way. Well, that's exactly what divides us. And you know, everyone knows that it is not the purpose of the presentation of the CDS proposal — of course, I am not talking about the proposal of the Arrival — that it is not exactly for a moment to proclaim this division again. And we accept that, but here we are. We are actually divided into this interpretation of history. On the other hand, as to saying that this attacks the honor of your bench has nothing strictly true. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u232	To close the debate, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u233	Mr. President, taking into the conversation where we were, I would begin by saying that, in fact, if there is a phrase that remains of those days and of those times is the phrase of Admiral Pinheiro de Azevedo that, in the face of explosions and grenades of smoke and all the agitation in the Land of Peace, answered, as I would now reply to Mr. José Manuel Pureza, the following: « Calm down! It's just smoke! The people are serene! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u235	That is how it was answered at the time—and that is how it is worth responding—to the radicalism of those who wanted executions, of those who wanted violence. And it is worth telling Mr João Oliveira at the end of this debate that it is true that the regime that we had in Portugal until 25 April had certainly elements of hatred for political persecution of comrades theirs of that time that they were arrested, tortured, all unacceptable. But what happened in the Soviet Union? What happened in communist dictatorships? Wasn't it exactly the same? The dictatorships are the same, sisters from that point of view. And what many wanted was that, in Portugal, an authoritarian regime and a dictatorship would fall to establish another dictatorship.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u237	And that's what was defeated on November 25. That is what opened the way to the Constitution, to the democratic constitution which the parties here voted democratically. And that is why the date of November 25 unites us all, today. I do justice—again with moderation and serenity, because, to any radicalism, it responds with moderation and serenity—to the Portuguese Communist Party, so with justice to the Left Block, to the democratic coexistence we have and to be parties that respect the rules of democracy. I have no doubt about that. But, if so, it was because at the time it did not triumph a radicalism, it did not triumph a kind of revolution that some wanted for Portugal. As for the Socialist Party — and so many of us were in the Luminosa Source, behind Mário Soares, because it was him who was driving before others, should be ashamed of what he says here today, because you ignore this story, ignore those who have crossed the side of freedom. [[Protests by PS Member Bruno Aragon.]] Both November 25 and April 25 are dates that unite all Portuguese, that unite our history, that unite a democracy and that join us all in this Chamber. And I like being here. I am pleased to be here discussing with Mr José Manuel Pureza, with Mr João Oliveira, in a democratic confrontation, in a tolerant confrontation. This is due to the largest date of April 25. No one wants to turn it off, do us that justice! April 25 is the largest date of a Revolution which was a Revolution and not a coup d'état, as some claim. It was a Revolution that profoundly changed the legal order and what our country is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u238	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u239	It was another country, and better, which came out of April 25. But there are other dates that can be celebrated and that can be evoked, even to the understanding of the whole process itself. That is all we have proposed, and that is what we have maintained: a date of unity and not division. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-21.u240	Thus, the joint debate of the Draft Deliberation No 2 / XIV / 1 is concluded. a ( CDS-PP ) and Resolution Projects Nos 70 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) and 45 / XIV / 1. a ( CH). We will continue our work tomorrow, at 10 a.m., with all democratic normality and in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, adopted on 2 April 1976 and referred hereto,... [[PAN's applause.]] ... with the following agenda: in the first item, we will discuss, together, in general, the Drafts of Law Nos 746 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the installation of closed television circuits in slaughterhouses and 764 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the obligation of the installation of fire detection system on livestock holdings of classes 1 and 2, on an intensive basis, by making the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2008 of 12 November 2008. In the second point, the general debate will take place on draft Law Nos 185 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday (Tenth sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February) and 969 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February. In the third point, we will generally proceed to the joint assessment of Bill Nos 581 / XIV / 2. a ( Citizens) — Prohibition of dog racing in Portugal, 219 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the prohibition of the most known race dogs by race of chickens, 783 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prohibits the racing of chickens and other animals of the canidae family as practices contrary to the natural behavior of animals and 970 / XIV/ 3. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Determines the prohibition of racing dogs for competitive purposes. On the fourth point, we will consider the Final Report of the Parliamentary Committee on Losses Registered by the New Bank and Imputed by the Resolution Fund. of the fifth point is draft Law No 997 / XIV / 3. a ( PS, PSD, PCP ) — Third amendment to Law No 24 / 2009 of 29 May, which approves the legal regime of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( CNECV ), to which no discussion time has been assigned. Finally, there will be a regiment vote. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 30 minutes.]]
