ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. We will start the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic on 16 December 2021. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I request that the gallery doors be opened. of the first item on the agenda are political statements, but before that, Ms Maria da Luz Rosinha has information to give to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform the House that you have entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1542 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAR).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for the announcement. That diploma shall be voted on at the time of the vote. Let us then turn to the political statements and, to begin with, I give the floor to Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The preventive arrest of former Minister of Economics Manuel Pinho and Alexandra Pinho, his wife, does not add, alone, no new data to what we have long known about the performance of this former head of the last absolute majority government of the Socialist Party. However, in recalling the country of these decisions, this detention should also remind democratic institutions that, even today, these decisions have consequences that are to be corrected. This case is an example of several titles. This is an investigation that took place 10 years ago on the facts of nearly 15 years ago. There is no justice without means, no justice without deadlines. Secondly, this is an exemplary case of rotation of the rotating door between politics and business. The PS of José Socrates won the elections with an absolute majority and a man from the Espírito Santo Group arrived the Minister of Economics. One of his first decisions was to appoint as president of EDP (Energy of Portugal ) a personal friend, also high-ranking of the Espírito Santo Group and former PSD Minister António Mexia. to the office of Manuel Pinho arrived João Conceição, who had created the CMEC (costs of maintaining the contractual balance), in the offices of Durão Barroso and Paulo Portas. But John Conceição's salary, now Pine's advisor, has never been paid by the Ministry. It was the EDP who was working on this advisor's fees. The rest is known. during the years of minister, Manuel Pinho received a meal from Banco Espírito Santo and, in the end, EDP still sponsored Columbia University, in the United States, for the creation of a course where Manuel Pinho became a teacher. Some of these data were found in the parliamentary investigation that the Left Block proposed and of which I was elected rapporteur. The Members were unanimous in concluding, and I quote, that « between the office of Manuel Pinho — João Conceição and Rui Cartaxo — and those responsible for the company — Manso Neto and António Mexia — in addition to the permanent flow of information, what happened was a shift from the conduct of the legislative process itself, its rhythm and its content to the EDP ». Similarly, on the academic reward given to Manuel Pinho, the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry reinforced and never contradicted the evidence that led to the opening of the judicial investigation. However, among the 15 chapters of the report, there was only one which the Socialist Party Members made even a question of shambar. It was the second, dedicated precisely to the extension of the concession of the water domain, designed and executed by the Government of Durão Barroso and then implemented by the Government of José Socrates, through Minister Manuel Pinho. And what did you recommend, after all, this foul chapter of the report of our Committee of Inquiry? It recommended the review of the economic-financial balance of the EDP dam concessions by comparing the company's paid values with the gains actually generated from those dams. In my proposal for a chapter, I used the values which the Coelho Government itself sent to the European Commission: EDP paid the State almost 600 million euros less. This chapter was plunged by the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party, the two parties that began, developed and concluded the granting of these excessive incomes and these abusive gains. Even recently, these poorly-made accounts were again seen when EDP wanted to sell to Engie the right to use water government goods in six Douro dams. In January 2020, in view of the first news on future sale, the Ministry of the Environment stated that it would consider, and I quote, « the value allocated to assets in 2007, and those now to be paid by the new user, and the economic and financial balance of the concession should be reassessed ». In other words, the sales accounts should make you realize how wrong Manuel Pinho did, so promised the Ministry of the Environment. Half a year later, with the prior sales authorization process, the Director of Water Resources of the Portuguese Environment Agency ( APA ) reminded the Minister of the Environment of his promise: "The 2007 assessment is under judicial investigation; without re-evaluation of concessions, the conditions for authorising the transmission of dams are not met", the Director said. Now the Ministry of the Environment has hidden the report and has even authorized the sale without reassessing concessions and considering certain accounts of Manuel Pinho. When the Bloc asked the Government to document the APA process, the opinion of the water resource director was hidden and only reached Parliament through doors. by deciding to authorize this sale without knowing the real value of the concessions sold, by abdicating the value that the State could legally derive with the authorization of this business, the government made a choice: it did not seek a public cash with the change of concessionaire and preferred to protect Manuel Pinho's rules. In short, after announcing a reassessment as a condition for authorising the business, the Government prevented it from doing so, as the Socialist Members had already refused it, when, in 2019, they joined the PSD to delete that second chapter of the report of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers. This case has political consequences, in justice and time limits, and in means of combating corruption and economic crime. at a time when the electricity market reaches record values of 20 years, the highest ever, at a time when the spectrum of drastic increases in the price of electricity falls on the consumer, with the consequences that this has in the economic recovery of our country, the correction of these errors, the correction of these measures, which have read and continue to harm consumers of electricity, is imposed and is still required. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u5	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Detention in South Africa and the prosecution of the extradition process of former banker João Rendeiro, convicted of crimes of an economic and financial nature, are an important event for the implementation of justice in Portugal and represent an unforgettable success for the operation of the Judicial Police. Dr. Rui Rio is not right when he accuses the judicial police of flogging to favor the government. As someone has already said, suspicion of antipathy by the PSD, is « not having any notion ». Dr. Rui Rio says that the National Director of the Judiciary Police is appointed by the government and that he conducted interviews at the time of the prison, when he did not do so at the time of his escape. It is to have no notion, from the outset, because the Judicial Police, if you have the responsibility to try to capture a fugitive to justice, obviously has no responsibility to avoid leaving the country from whom you are not subject to any coercion measure that prevents you from leaving. But, much more importantly, it is as follows: the National Director of the Judicial Police is actually appointed by the Government. But it was not only the current director who was appointed by the current government, who were all national directors who were appointed by all governments in office at the time of appointments, and never any political officer dared even insinuate that the Judicial Police, which operates under the functional direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office in proceedings whose instruction is the responsibility of the judiciary, is at the service of any government in office. This accusation by Dr. Rui Rio is very serious, at least for three reasons: firstly, because it launches a public suspicion about the suitability of a police institution which is fundamental to the fight against crime and to which the country should, not now, but for a long time; secondly, because it feels that Dr. Rui Rio would prefer that Mr. Rendeiro should not be arrested now, because he thinks that this can adversely affect his election outcome and, then, he thinks that the Judicial Police should have asked his South African congenre that, by being able to stop Mr. Rendeiro now, only stopped him on the night of January 30, 2022, after closing the polling assemblies all over the national territory; thirdly, and more seriously, because Dr. Rui Rio thinks that if he comes to the Prime Minister of Portugal, he can give orders to the Judiciary Police on whom, when and how, he may or may not be arrested.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u7	That's conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u8	And this is no longer a lack of notion. This is a clear manifestation of will to overthrow the rule of law and to politically control criminal investigation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Judiciary Police has done their duty and is worthy of our recognition, not only for the last week, but for the work that has been taking place over the years, despite the manifest lack of resources. The biggest problem of combating corruption and economic and financial crime in our country is not so much the lack of laws, which are certainly perfect, but the lack of means available to the judiciary and judicial authorities to carry out their duties with the speed and effectiveness they would certainly want. since the CFP has been insistently proposing the significant strengthening of the human and material resources to the service of criminal investigation and the application of justice, taking into account the importance of combating impunity for white collar crimes and the complexity of investigation of such crimes. In successive State budgets, the CFP proposed strengthening the hiring of inspectors, financial experts, criminalists and security officers for the Judicial Police. The State budget for 2021 confirmed, on a proposal from the CFP, that the Government has no responsibility to present a multiannual investment plan for criminal investigation by May, which the Government has not done. The process of recruiting inspectors that is in progress is something that is welcomed as absolutely indispensable in the face of the manifest shortage that has come to pass, but it is part of an effort that must be continued in the coming years so that the country can continue to have a criminal investigation police worthy of that name. of the program with which the CFP presents itself to the elections of 30 January, it is a firm commitment to give full and consistent response to the chronic shortage of the most basic material and human means, the main difficulty that is placed in the daily work of the Public Prosecutor and the Judicial Police. The firm fight against corruption does not go through the adoption of mechanisms such as the award-winning infringements that, in the name of this fight, destroy fundamental guarantees of a democratic rule of law. The CFP, in line with its heritage of proposals and of political struggle for decades against corruption, ranging from the end of banking secrecy to the criminalization of unjustified enrichment, will remain in the first line of this struggle, in respect for the Constitution, for a more just society and for the values of decency and honesty in public life. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u9	For a political declaration, Mr Telmo Correia, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this moment and in this particular circumstance, and on the way to elections, I confess that I will take some thought on what the subject to bring to you today, on behalf of the CDS-PP. And, listening to previous interventions, I do not think I have made a wrong reading, since it seems, of what I have heard so far, obviously with different political readings, which is normal, that attention has been very focused on the issue and on the concerns related to justice, as indeed has been the attention of the country. I would begin by stressing that, in agreement with some of the things mentioned in this last intervention, on the one hand, one thing was missing, which is the recognition that the situation we have today, not only in justice, but in the area of sovereignty in general, is the result of six years of governance of the Socialist Party. It was this government that led us here, that brought us here. The CFP can now say — even as a justification, it is understandable — what it proposed in the Budget, but which it is not, and was neither in this nor in any of the previous budgets which, in the meantime, have approved, because this matter has actually been settled. But we have come here with a curious situation: the holder of the justice folder is no longer only of justice, it is also of internal administration and, if there were more folders in the area of sovereignty, Dr. Van Dunem probably would have assumed them. Critics to justice are often made by default, slowness or lack of response, sometimes because it is considered that justice has acted excessively. Regardless of one or another option, I would take precisely a very recent statement from the Minister of Justice, in which she says that a million crimes in a case are a serious mistake. Obviously, the Minister refers to so-called mega-processes, but this has been so for a long time, I would say that eventually it was even before this government. The problem is that we have not solved this issue, because the question of mega-processes has so far not had any answers. At the same session, the Attorney-General of the Republic — who has also gone through our debate — replied that the matter is indeed not a matter of law, it is a matter of means. I would say that, perhaps, it is law and that it is still law in some matters. The Assembly of the Republic has, and has done so under very special circumstances, and I even admit that we did well to have done a law rather than simply have left the whole package of corruption for a future legislature — but the truth is that we did it a little over time, leaving out some things that were important and that are still important for the fight against corruption, from a legislative point of view. However, and there I can agree, more important than the legislative issue is the question of the means, is the question of empowering those with research, who has the power of decision-making in justice, who has criminal investigation with the means to make it, of course, successful. In fact, I am asking for a separation which the Left Block sometimes cannot do —'sometimes' is my sympathy — I would say to the honourable Member the following: I can agree and we can all agree, it is a good idea, with the idea that many of the contracts made could have been ruinous. But that does not mean that all actions related to these contracts must be viewed as criminals. We must separate what justice is — a condemnation, an accusation — from what contracts are.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u11	Mr. Deputies, there is no time-conformity here, because the CDS has 3 minutes and already goes in 4 minutes and 29 seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u12	Mr President, that was not the indication that I had, nor was that the indication that was in the picture!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u13	Yes, the indication in the table is that it still has 6 minutes, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u14	Yes, Mr. President, and that was the time I was using, but I was misled. He then asked me to conclude, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u15	Mr. Deputy, go on, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. I said that we have to distinguish situations: it is not because there have been bankers who have committed crimes that we have to consider that all bankers are by nature criminals. That's a little of the distinction we have to make. As for bankers, I mean that, from my point of view, it makes no sense that, in the face of such an action as that done in relation to former banker João Rendeiro, we blame the judicial police. This makes no sense, it does not have any logic, nor does it, in my opinion, have any connection, until because the Judicial Police, who has now been able to stop João Rendeiro, is the same Judicial Police that was able to have an effective response in the case of Tanks or that was able to have a very important investigation very recently in the crimes committed by special forces elements in the Central African Republic. I wasn't, in some cases, wanting to harm one another and, in others, wanting to favor others. What we have to recognize is that our police, especially our scientific police, do their best and achieve it. They are composed of very capable people, very dedicated and very efficient. The scientific police have even, as the magistrates say, had the courage to criticize political power, demanding precisely more means and more conditions for doing their work. This was done some time ago, exactly by the current National Director of the Judicial Police. In conclusion, I would like to say that there are matters that have been overlooked, for example, the lobbying—that we have so much defended and that this legislation has not concluded—the counsellors for judges or the recruiting of judges. But above all, the means and conditions are lacking to speed up justice, because justice is so slow, obviously, and using a famous phrase, « qualified injustice ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u17	I ask the services that, as the speakers of each party speak, discount the time spent on their remaining time. However, I also ask the services which open the register for quorum purposes. I now give the floor, for a political statement, to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, present audience: In the last few days, it would indeed be easy to fall into the temptation just to say that these have been good days for justice. But the truth is that these cases also bring with them a mark of justice that has been weak with the strong, with those who judge the owners of this all, and very strong with those who, in fact, are more vulnerable, investing, so many times, the state's muscular machine, especially in tax justice, for the taxpayers, executing and aggravating tributes of private entities. When, in fact, the individual has to resort to justice, he often slips into a bureaucratic mesh not only, but slow and slow to complete the cases concerning his daily life. And this cannot be the brand we want to let or come to perpetuate in Portuguese justice. In fact, we can say that these cases were an exception in so many bad days, but we have to go further. It is also true that seeing João Rendeiro or Manuel Pinho behind the bars gives us some feeling that there is no untouchable in our country, that the impunity of great corruption does not last forever and that we have a justice that, despite having many defects and problems, is still able to give respect. But these cases also alert us to the need for structural changes, these changes, in fact, that even in this legislation that is now concluding the NAP has come to claim. In the last few days we have heard about the possible delay in the process of extradition of João Rendeiro because of the lack of translators. It is only surprising at this that those who have not heeded the budgetary debates, because it was precisely one year ago that the NAP alerted them to these problems and proposed the creation of teams with competences to collaborate in the processing of international judicial cooperation instruments, including language competence for translation. If the government had been good listeners and these teams would have been essential to speed up the case of the extradition of João Rendeiro, but more than that, in general, to enable greater effectiveness in cases of great economic-financial crime and in crimes of corruption, given the frequent transnational dimension that they have taken. This was a proposal that, in fact, contained in the Justice Pact and that since 2018 this government has been reluctant to keep in the drawer. But here too the blame does not die single because if there are parties who today regret the lack of translators or means, I remember that one year ago the NAP proposal was rejected, with the votes against the PS Parliamentary Group, the abstention of the PSD, the Left Block, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. We were alone and unfortunately time gave us reason. But who knows if, in the next Budget, in the light of this embarrassment, this House does not shake hands and approves the proposal that the NAP will not stop bringing back here? The same is true of the Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Action, which is essential in these two cases and which has been treated as a poor parent in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) : that it can finally have enough working rooms for its employees, have more than a properly attached interrogation room and software for the computer lab to be able to process these processes. The Rendeiro case has also shown us that, as the NAP has been saying for years, visasgolds are given by Portugal or South Africa, they do not serve the real economy or economic growth, only aim at ensuring travel facilities, without prior visa, for more than one hundred countries and, in the Portuguese case, giving unrestricted access to the Schengen area. Also in this regard the NAP proposed the repeal of this regime in the 2020 Budget, but PS, PSD, CDS-PP, Liberal Initiative and Arrival themselves voted against! However, we do not tire out and in the next Parliament we will again be proposing the end of the golden visas, and we hope that the other parties will follow us to correct a mistake that has already been seen so much read by the country. We cannot continue to blind our eyes to the reality of tax havens. Once again, it was the NAP who opened the debate here in Parliament on this issue — we are talking about the British Virgin Islands — so that the government would require the European Union to adopt more demanding criteria with regard to the list of non-cooperating jurisdictions, but nothing has been done. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problems of justice in Portugal do not begin or end in this kind of case or in the slowness that marks justice. There are many other matters, particularly the environment, which have been deeply forgotten and we need to start to be indignant and act accordingly in the face of the complacency of justice to environmental crimes and attacks on environmental activists. We must be outraged at the fact that, although some 82 000 environmental crimes have been recorded by the authorities, only 6 % of the pollution cases have been tried in court in our country. Six percent of crimes against nature! Six percent of crimes against the planet, against our own survival! We cannot accept that in this area last year the GNR ( Republican National Guard) has had more than 12,000 complaints and has made more than 228 000 inspections, and that this has only led to the detection of 1100 crimes. We cannot be prevented when illegal discharges in a river, which take place for years and generate a fair indignation of the populations, lead only to a judicial conviction in the form of written repression. We cannot be sure when a court, even in the seat of caution, says that a project such as Montijo airport could only substantiate an unfavourable environmental impact statement and the government continues to insist on the advance of this project which is at odds with the challenges that climate change poses to us. More: we cannot continue to close our eyes to the opacity that marks processes such as the extraction and exploitation of lithium or dams, among so many others that we could set an example in the country. And, less so, we can deprotect the complainants, as is the case with Arlindo Marques, who was forced to face a judicial action. It is noted that the so-called SLAP actions (strategic judicial actions against public participation) only want to demoralize the complainants, stain their image and stop their action in defense of the environment. It was a lot to do in this legislature. We could have the decency of doing next time!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u19	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The arrest of former banker João Rendeiro was an important fact, even in order to credible our justice, but above all for the recognition of the work of criminal investigation bodies and for the importance of international cooperation in this case in the field of justice. What we now expect is that former banker João Rendeiro can answer for the crimes that are charged with him, that he must pay the penalty he has to do and, therefore, that justice is done, which is what is required, until the perception that we have a justice for the rich and another for the poor remains. But as there is more world beyond the leaks, the Greens today bring to the discussion a matter that is also important. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have an absolutely decisive role in our economy. They account for about 98 % of the total number of companies in our country, account for 80 % of total employment and represent 60 % of the total turnover of non-financial companies. It happens that, despite the importance they take from the point of view of our economy, the fact is that, in general, these companies, even before the pandemic, already had excessive levels of indebtedness and were very dependent on banking credit, especially in the short term. It is a reality that is a strong obstacle to the resumption of business investment which, by contrast, does not help in the relaunching of the Portuguese economy. The Greens have long been alerting the government to the need to develop a strategy, capable of speeding up and facilitating the access of micro and small businesses to finance, but also to promote their capitalisation. On the other hand, when these companies are facing many problems when they want to apply for Community funds, we have repeatedly called on the government to set up mechanisms that could facilitate the application processes, particularly their bureaucratic weight. At all of this, the government was always saying that it was attentive, but very few concrete measures were seen and if before the health crisis small businesses were in a very delicate situation, with this crisis, they were in a completely suffocating situation. The figures show that thousands of these companies have suspended their activity for months or months, or because the containment and confinement measures thus required, or because they have experienced a very sharp breakdown in their usual orders. It is recalled that the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has been warning that there have been more than 1, 1 million small entrepreneurs who are experiencing many difficulties in paying for wages, income, water, energy, tax charges, among others. With these data present, the Greens presented, as part of the specialization of the State budget for 2021, a proposal for the creation of a treasury fund for micro and small enterprises to enable a smooth, efficient and bureaucratic response to the treasury problems of this decisive segment of the national economy. It was an agreed proposal between the Greens and the Government of the PS, and it was a proposal adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, which is therefore the State Budget Act for 2021. With an appropriation of EUR 750 million, this proposal provides for a maximum repayment period of up to 10 years, with 18 months of capital shortage, and should be available on 1 April this year. But this proposal also provided an interest rate of 0 %, which the Government did not accept, but which made it clear that it would be very close to 0 %. This is therefore a genuine treasury fund, an important line of support for micro and small enterprises which, as envisaged in the approved proposal, required only a simple request, without bureaucracy. What did the government do? The government, in wake of what it had agreed with the Greens and in clear comparison with what this House had decided, has transformed this treasury fund into a common line of credit. Let us say: the treasury fund should be available on 1 April, but the government made it available only on 14 September. The Assembly of the Republic approved EUR 750 million for the fund, but the Government decided to ignore the Assembly, pass over the law and reduce that amount to EUR 100 million. The reimbursement of the financing, which should be 10 years old, was reduced by the government for four years and the capital shortage, which should be 18 months, passed by the government for 12 months. As regards the interest rate, contrary to what the Government has committed to the Greens — close to 0 % — it was finally 1, 5 %. In other words, the Government agreed with the Greens, and the Assembly of the Republic approved a line of support for micro and small enterprises, but the Government, after having seen the State budget approved for 2021, transformed this line of support into a common line of credit. Then we remind ourselves of "the word given and the word honored" and we realize that the accounts of the deficit have, by the way, spoken higher than honor. But in this context, the treasury fund is just one example, because it was the same with other Greens proposals envisaged in the Budget for 2021, such as support for the start-up of spontaneous growth eucalyptuses or the implementation of the National Strategy for Cycling Active Mobility. In fact, it was not by chance that the PS Government showed so much resistance to make a review of the matter, i.e. an analysis of the implementation of the 2021 budget measures before we sought convergences and solutions for the 2022 State budget. However, with regard to the treasury fund for micro and small enterprises, the Government did not despise only the Assembly of the Republic, the Government is not lacking only with The Greens, the Government has, above all, disrespected the thousands of micro and small entrepreneurs who saw in this fund a sort of saving table, an excellent contribution to the survival of their small businesses. If the Government does not want to be permanently ill and lacking with the Greens, with this House and with the micro and small entrepreneurs, it is still in time to do what it should have already done, respect the word given to the Greens and respect the decision taken by the Assembly. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u21	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal and the Portuguese have been living in a situation of contingency for two decades. This circumstance has marked and marked, decisively, the way in which we view the present and look at the future. Short governments, instability, lack of political meaning, only interrupted in 2005 and 2015, forced us to a painful path that brought sadness and put many of the most dynamic forces in our society to stand still. When in 2020 we were starting the liberation of the social and economic crisis, we once again sank with all that the pandemic of the century brought us and when Portugal was preparing to implement, at the same time, three European programmes, the Government sees its reprobate budget. No political scientist will find the reasons for this sad time. We're at the end of a single legislation, it's important to look at VV. Ex. and question your conscience. What country do we want? Will we be up to the time we live? We have for us that what matters to Portugal is, in many ways, organizing hope; organizing hope is our collective event. We must organize hope to affirm Portugal in the world and in Europe by building bridges between continents; organize hope in a Portuguese-speaking community that values itself in the social and economic fields and also confirm our multilateral vocation. We must organize hope by choosing the North/South dialogue, finding solutions to poverty, facing migrations that seek better worlds; organizing hope by increasing security without yielding to freedoms, opting for religious dialogue and patience in the growth of peoples without guardianship or ties. We must organize hope so that we can continue to be one of the safest countries in the world, so that our police will reform and value themselves and our judicial system will be justly confirmed. The fight against moral and economic corruption must be affirmed as never before. We must organize hope so that we can have a sustainable country. It matters a new, more meaningful and more imaginative policy for water, interests another view of the economic value of waste; organizes hope that the war between protection and production does not jeopardise the rural world, so that new and broad forms of manufacture of goods and services are found, so that the country is not for longer a simple gunch of Community funds. We must organize the hope that energy options will be clarified and sustain an integrated view of sovereignty, that mineral resources will be explored with discretion and equity; that we should organize the hope that we will know what we want to produce and that fiscal requirement must be imposed on competitive companies. We must organize hope so that we can bet on education and training, looking at new cognitive realities; organize hope for teachers to make people great and non-slaves to bureaucracy and to move towards the dignity of practical knowledge at the same time as a profound reform of higher education and research policies. We must organize the hope that the country will prepare itself for new and deadly pandemics, whether they come from our overcrowded society or from the movement of people and animals, so that we will have a quality and cost-free health service. We must organize hope to promote daring, creation, and risk, if there is a universe in which freedom most consecrated itself is even the space of intelligence and culture that must be seen cross-sectionally; and if there is an obligation that we must assume, it is not to want our young people to be marked by normalization. Let young people win for you the country, we do not want to mark the future that only they fulfill. But we must also consider that organizing hope is to look far away, to guarantee the pensions of the older today and tomorrow, to sustain territories on the way to not have vivalma, to remove marginalization of metropolitan spaces. To organize hope is, in short, to organize citizenship for a time of virtualization and solitude. Now, organizing hope cannot be done again by entering political instability into short cycles of governance. Organizing hope requires a strong, capable and sustained government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a few days ago they offered me a book that has the title The Age of Us : Proposals for a Common Good Democracy. The author develops his thinking by demonstrating that there are new generations of hope, which I share. On their pages we can find a dance between individual happiness and collective becoming, the freedom to create where the State is a party, but it is not said to be suffocating, where growing individually cannot be a kind of anathema. Also in the book is a struggle against the ied of desire for the involvement in economic bubbles in an era of post-capitalism and, as the author receives the father genetics, a deep and militant attention to solidarity that is not the mere replacement of the charity of religion by the charity of the state. With the words of João Ferro Rodrigues, the author of the thoughts I just shared with you, I farewell. This was my last word in this Parliament. I have had the honour of serving my country here, I hope I have been able to honor those who have chosen me. In the people of the Mrs. Deputies Adam Silva, Pedro Filipe Soares, João Oliveira, Telmo Correia, Bebiana Cunha, José Luís Ferreira, of Mrs. Only Members of the parties and the independent Members of Parliament, I thank you and wish all strong and better adventures. Your Excellency Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I leave a fraternal embrace to you, my friend, and the entire PS Parliamentary Group. In the Assembly of the Republic, in the person of its President, Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, the desire for long and democratic life. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u23	Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr President, allow me, before I speak in writing, to make two references. First of all, to my fellow Ascense Simons : I wish you, Ascension, the greatest happiness and we are going to meet there for life, for sure. Secondly, and moving a bit of a tone, to a less conciliatory tone, I certainly leave a word on what Mr António Filipe here referred to with regard to Mr Rui Rio. He's not in the room anymore, but I'm sure Mrs Paula Santos will pass it on to you. Mr António Filipe here made a series of speculative statements that are completely devoid of truth in relation to Dr Rui Rio's statements and, therefore, being, as it is, an illustrious parliamentary officer, a distinguished jurist, he perhaps agreed that he should read and meditate better on the words that Dr Rui Rio gave. Now yes, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When Eduardo Cabrita, on the day he resigned, was sorry to say that "he was only a passenger" was being cruel and insensitive, it is true, but also to utter a powerful and revealing metaphor. He was just a passenger, who is like who says he had no responsibility in the case, that the blame was on the others. This was the case with this socialist government of António Costa. It has been a government in which its members, about 70, are only passengers, without fault, without responsibility at all. Do public health and justice, social security and housing services not respond, or do they respond late, to the needs of Portuguese people? Oh, my God! Yes! But the Ministers and State Secretaries are only passengers, they cannot solve their problems. Does the public investment essential for the modernisation of Portugal in the last six years throw us to the last place in Europe? Oh, my God! It's true! But in the government, no one feels responsible. They're all just so passengers. Will Portugal continue to delay in relation to the other partner countries, taking more time to recover from the pandemic and allowing itself to overcome competition? Oh, my God! Go! Go! But in this government, no one leads us to success. They're all passengers. Even when everything collapsed, the management collapsed and the political crisis collapsed, ministers and state secretaries re-installed themselves in the back bank. Someone who took the steering wheel and traced the path! This was the case: passive, reactive, flameless, always waiting for the foretold defeat, and the country is moving slowly or even backward. Perhaps that is why the country is now puzzled by a desperate struggle by government members to get on the list of Members. It's saving who can. You got it! Conscious of what they have done, they run away from the electoral shipwreck that they have already guessed by January 30th.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u25	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u26	« Finish the government, but save the place in Parliament », many of these 31 candidates will say. If the members of the government were so passengers, restored in the back bank, the values essential to good democratic governance were simply thrown into the car trunk: justice, transparency and equity, for example. For these days, the Public Ministry — which has already been said here — has finally decreed house arrest for Manuel Pinho, former minister of Socrates, because he has unlawfully given Mionary Heritage Benefits to EDP. They would have been hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros, diverted from the public interest, withdrawn from the Portuguese, to add wealth to those who were already rich and powerful. Injustice and iniquity served in the aridil of opacity! These events have happened 15 years ago. They were the glorious years of triumphant Socrates. However, today, December 16, 2021, it is precisely two years since EDP closed a bad business by selling to Engie, for 2, 2 billion euros, six dams in Bragança district. There is every coincidence, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a multi-millionaire sale, for which the Government of Antonio Costa not only demanded no counterpart, as, above all, it is eager to exempt EDP from more than EUR 400 million of taxes which are due to the Portuguese. 15 years ago, like two years ago, with socialist rulers, the motto is always the same: everything for the good of EDP, everything against the good of the Portuguese. 15 years ago, as now, the same injustice, the same wickedness, the same opacity. With the socialist governments, the essential values of our democratic life will always be closed in the car trunk. It is only lacking that, as happened now with Dr. Pinho, the Public Prosecutor's Office does not cease to do with total autonomy the research that the Portuguese claim. I just remember that, about a year and a half ago, because of this business, a complaint was filed in the Attorney General's Office of the Republic. We're waiting for the scenes in the next chapters. For now, we know that the Attorney-General of the Republic has opened an investigation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese do not want ministers and State Secretaries to be mere passengers; they want a new government, lucid, of action, responsible, that has a course and fights for the future of the Portuguese. We do not need state ministers and secretaries re-established in the back seat of government, watching the parade of the delay, demotivation, the insecurity of the Portuguese. We no longer tolerate schemes for favoring the powerful, because injustice and injustice are born from these schemes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u27	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u28	I will finish, Mr. President. The Portuguese desperately need to breathe pure air, without toxic fumes of corruption. The Portuguese can have it all from January 30. Enough of them! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u29	For a political declaration, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time this Parliament is getting ready to finish, the question we have to launch is what country we want to be, from a few years away. What we have seen, over the past few days and weeks, is something that is deeply ashamed of Portugal: a former banker, fascinated by the main parties of this system, imprisoned in a distant country, enjoying Portugal, with the millions that he kept out. An ex-moren banker, very careful, enjoying a justice that did not catch him in time, while a large part of the Portuguese are currently at risk of remarkable poverty. João Rendeiro fled the country not to face justice. Ricardo Salgado, we don't know when he'll face it, despite Alzheimer's. José Socrates is in Ericeira and many others continue to walk freely in this country which Social-Democrat and Socialist governments have led to the greatest impunity that we have ever witnessed in democracy. The Attorney-General of the Republic said that he has two translators and that he will therefore strive to meet the deadlines. I repeat, two translators. A socialist country has left us two translators for the Attorney General's Office of the Republic to help in extradition processes. João Rendeiro can escape because the request for extradition did not arrive in the 18 days that the previous law, or in the 30 or 40 days that were possible for his arrest. But they say: "The PS did what he could. This has always been the case over the past 40 years. PSD and PS did what they could. About the rest, there was nothing to do. On January 30th, there's something to do. We must give more means to the Judicial Police and the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, so that we are not the country which is more ashamed of the European Union in combating corruption and combating economic crime. Those who attacked the Judiciary Police, at the time that it made an almost superhuman effort to capture a fugitive who offended and embarrassed Portugal, were not very well. Who, instead of defending, at the moment when they were supposed to be defended and prestigious, justice and the judicial police, attacked the institutions and did so a political game was not well in that analysis. We should value justice when it is right and attack it and criticize it when it is not right. Mr Ascenso Simões said that I welcome, from this rostrum, that we need a strong, credible and parliament-supported government. No doubt. But we can't have a passenger government in the back seat of the car. The Government of Eduardo Cabrita was everything but the strong and credible government that the country needed. From the lies that the road was not signalled to the lies about the worker who shot himself in the middle of the road, the vehicle behind it, or the front, or the PSP, who was supposed to be in the front car or behind us, we had sat in front of us a minister who secretly lied to Parliament, who secretly lied to the Portuguese, with the applause of the Socialist Party. Now, let's forget, because the elections are coming there and the Socialist Party is going to have Dr. Eduardo Cabrita sitting in this plenary. They've done what they always do: they've dropped your minds thinking about the vows. But the Portuguese won't forget what happened. When gross impunity in this country and when a minister thinks he is above the law, it is Parliament that has to respond, and Parliament has not responded. He proposed a committee of inquiry and all or almost all parties to this House said that it was not necessary, but here comes the prosecution of the Public Prosecutor's Office and it is clear that there was signage, it is clear that the Minister lied and is clear, or will remain in the trial, that there was abuse of power. Shame on this house, which I didn't know at the right time, to be up to! The communists said "to justice what is justice and politics what is politics", always, as Pilate did with Jesus, washing his hands and passing away. The Portuguese, in the 30th elections, do not want to wash their hands, want politicians to tell them, face to face, what they will do and the reforms they will face. That's what we need on the 30th!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u31	Speak the damned one!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u32	It is not political without knowing what they are doing, saying "good, we will try to avoid putting here a controversial issue that will undermine the socialist government". For what? Oh, my God! The budget has plummeted. They left you in your hands, as they always do. The extreme left is this, from the beginning to today, and the country continues exactly in the same. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that this is my last speech in this House, and it is true, Mr. Member, that I have been convicted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u33	It is! He's the only one here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u34	The racism of this country has become the national parody. Those who say that we cannot talk about this in the next Parliament will not have one, but several, in this House, to shout loudly that Portugal is not a racist country and that we are tired of the little side of racism, always trying to pay those who want to do nothing, to continue to sustain them and to impose more taxes on those who work. They will not be one, nor 10 ; they will be many here saying that they represent the common Portuguese and those who are sick of paying taxes for a country in which half want to do nothing and want to continue living at the expense of others. I spoke of Ricardo Salgado and José Socrates, who would be a good example. The PS should make a statue of José Socrates at the entrance of Parliament. It is the greatest example of impunity that the Left Block, PCP and PS have allowed in this country. It is someone who has been, one day, where I am and said: "I am here for the Portuguese, to allow those who have no incomes to have them, to allow us to be a more prosperous and more modern country. Do not keep on seeking. ” José Socrates went out and we are no longer prosperous or more modern, but he has the most prosperous and much more modern wallet, because of you! I repeat, because of you, because it has been supported by some benches of this Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u35	And by PSD, when you were there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u36	Now this legislature is ending and the Portuguese will be able to vote on 30th. What I really hope is that on the 30th day we can give an image of real ruin in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to end without saying what needs to be said: racism, subsidiarity, the privileges of politicians and all those who live on behalf of the system will be the main theme of the attack of the coming legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u37	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u38	Mr President, I shall finish by saying this: we will be here with great strength from the 30th day to show the Portuguese that it is possible to make politics differently.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u39	You were in the PSD when Socrates was there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u40	Shut up! I'm sick of hearing you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u41	You're a tape recorder!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u42	Let's continue the meeting. For a political declaration, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This will be the last meeting of the Standing Committee in 2021 and perhaps the last political statements of this Parliament. It makes sense, therefore, to take this opportunity to make a sort of balance sheet of this half-legislation in which the Liberal Initiative took seats in this Parliament for the first time. It was indeed the first time, in democracy, that this Assembly of the Republic had a member of a party, assumed and uncomplexly, liberal: liberal in society, liberal in the economy, liberal in politics. For the first time, those who share the deep desire to build a more liberal Portugal, where there are more opportunities for personal, civic and economic growth for all, could have been represented in this Parliament. After these two years, we can confidently say to all who have given us their vote: “Your vote has been counted! Do not keep on seeking. ” Because in each topic, in each debate, in each proposal, the Liberal Initiative presented and strongly defended the vision of what could be a more liberal Portugal, we can say: "Your vote has counted! Do not keep on seeking. ” Because we have been constant in defending individual freedoms in all circumstances, because we have refused to approve the excessive and autocratic powers of the states of pandemic emergency, because we oppose Article 6 accordingly. that of the Digital Rights Charter, because, without the Liberal Initiative, we would not be few weeks away from watching the end of the famous adept card, so that I was killing what should be the pleasure of watching a football game and stigmatizing certain groups of followers, for all this, we can say: "Your vote has counted! Do not keep on seeking. ” Because we have not lowered our arms in the defence of taxpayers, because we insist on simplification and tax relief, because we have begun the discussion of the single rate of IRS (tax on the income of natural people) on the agenda, as a way to make it possible to go back to life to work in Portugal and avoid emigration of the younger and the more qualified, we can say: "Your vote has counted! Do not keep on seeking. ” Because we are opposed to the Levian way the State treats taxpayers' money, either in the decision to bury almost EUR 4 billion in the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) — we started by being alone and now so many give us reason— either in the budget's money disbursed in public programmes without return and without scrutiny, we can say: "Your vote has counted! Do not keep on seeking. ” Because we choose growth without subterfuge as the country's main strategic objective, because without the resources that this growth makes possible and without the attractiveness it generates, we will not be able to solve the remaining problems of the country, because we have always been with the entrepreneurs, especially the smaller ones and the ones who suffered most during the crisis, we can say: "Your vote has counted! Do not keep on seeking. ” Because they always had the Liberal Initiative to defend that there was freedom of choice in public services, because for liberals, parents should be able to choose their children's school and demand that it function again as the main element of the social elevator and, for liberals, all people, even those who do not have private insurance, should be able to choose which hospital they want to be treated, we can say: "Your vote has counted! Do not keep on seeking. ” Because, with all this, the Liberal Initiative has made firm, consistent and constructive opposition, as we have been able, indeed, to testify recently, when it was known that we were the party that voted most times and opposed government proposals, we can therefore say: "Your vote has counted! Do not keep on seeking. ” It was this satisfaction to have honored the mandate that we were given that we could feel in our 6th National Convention, which took place on the last weekend under the motto 'Prepared' and that it showed this, a party prepared for the added responsibilities that will certainly be after 30 January, continuing or not in the opposition. At that time, I had the opportunity to share Portugal's vision that we want those who vote in us to share. It is a vision of a cheerful and confident country, rather than a sad, frightened and hopeless country, which marks step by step and defines. It is a vision of a Portugal in which the Portuguese feel that it is possible to go up to life for merit and work, whose fruit is theirs and not a state that collects too much taxes, has too much expense, has too much power, but has transparency and competence at least. It is a vision of a country whose economy grows and creates opportunities for all, especially for those who have emigrated, so that they can feel that they can come back, and that attracts immigrants that the economy and social security need. It is a vision of a Portugal in which those who study know that the effort and knowledge will really be worth it and that it will not be necessary to use with ones or have the right party card. It is a vision of a country where those in need of care can choose their hospital and do not die on waiting lists, without family doctors, only for ideological blindness. It is a vision of a Portugal in which everyone — even everyone! — they can carry out their life plans, irrespective of the color of their skin, their sexual orientation, their country of origin or their family name. It is a vision of a country in which the most vulnerable have the security network that the liberals have always defended, when they need it and for as long as they actually need it. It is a vision of a Portugal with a faster justice, but without stumbling into the guarantees of the defendants and without giving in to the corporateism of the magistrates. It is a vision of Portugal in which people, families and businesses no longer live in this terrible dependence on the state that makes them so often out of hand waiting for a huge amount of money that has already been yours. It is a vision of a country that preserves its environment intelligently, not allowing this cause to be used as a substitute for class struggle or as a weapon of shooting against the free market economy. It is a vision of a Portugal that loves freedom and defends human rights and freedoms wherever they are threatened, whatever the color of the regime. Liberals have not hesitated to condemn the oppression of the Lukashenko, the Orban and the Mature of this world, nor to ask Xi Jinping « where is Peng Shuai? "or to remind Canel that Cuba deserves to be free. In short, it is the vision of a more liberal country and a freer people. And it is to win the votes of those who share this vision that we will campaign for the elections of January 30, to be sure that, in a next balance sheet, we will be able to say again: "Your vote has counted! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u44	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the political statements. We will enter the second item on the agenda, with a political debate with the Minister of Education, required by the PSD and approved by the Conference of Leaders, unanimously. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present, starting with the Minister of Education, and I thank the Vice-President, who will now replace me. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u45	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to congratulate the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. As announced by Mr President, we are going to start a political debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group, so I give the floor to Mrs Cládia André, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, to introduce the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u46	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today, we have to ask ourselves what we can do about the government of the Minister at the end of six years to run the Ministry of Education, the Minister who ruled longer than any other minister of education in Portugal. We face questions such as "what has been done to improve the education system? "What did you do about the bad results revealed by the learning measurements made to students in recent years? "What did you do to solve the problem of teaching career? "What did you do to solve the shortage of teachers and the imbalanced distribution by the national territory? », when already in 2016 the National Council of Education had called attention to this problem that more and more times are to be filled, making it impossible for many students to have classes, in some disciplines, for long periods of time. At the end of November, a diagnostic study of the needs of teachers between 2021 and 2030 was published, which confirms the trend lines for some years already known. Despite alerts, there was no planning to deal with either demography or geography, either in the recruitment of teachers, or in the exit movements by retirement or prolonged lows. Most students continue without a teacher to central discipline in their school course, thousands of students who are the target of a failure of the state by denying them the constitutional right to learn. After six years of socialist governance, the unpublished stability in the office of the Minister of Education, as well as the position of the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, should have corresponded to the implementation of a set of solutions to mitigate the problem of the lack of attractiveness of the teaching profession. As a country, we should be taking care of so that our most qualified and promising young people can ambitiously be teachers. What was thought of for the education system to attract the most competent professionals again? What did the government do to restore dignity to the exercise of the profession of educator or teacher? Nothing. However, the results of the TIMSS 2019 ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study) and the results of the measurement tests are a disqualification. We were incredulous with the following results of the measurement tests: 65% of the students of the second year were unable to answer the questions of grammar and 37% showed the same difficulties in the categories of numbers and mathematical operations; in the fifth year, in the evaluation of reading and literary education, students who did not or did not respond total 46%; in the eighth year, the percentage of students who failed to respond to the evaluation and organization of data processing in Mathematics reached 62%. And the learning recovery plan is due to the rhetorical dimension of its dimensions, i.e., in an exceptional situation like the one we still live, we are thinking what it would have been like if it had been created by the government, as the PSD proposed, an exceptional legal framework that had eliminated bureaucratic barriers so that schools could, agilely, affect the resources they needed and project their action plans, allowing adjustments, distribution of hourly load and co-adjudication in the classroom, strengthening multidisciplinary teams and other measures. In spite of this, this possibility did not occur. Monitoring is planned on the strategic axes of Plan 21 23 School + — or less School, depending on perspective! — but there is no public disclosure of reports, procedures, which, in a transparent way, allow monitoring and monitoring of their implementation. Like everything that involves evaluation or monitoring instruments within the Ministry of Education, everything is a well-kept secret, there are no numbers or estimates for almost anything. For the Recovery Plan, the « bazauca » was launched, which basically sums up an exercise of how to spend 500 million euros quickly and leave everything in it. But this has not been accomplished and they continue to reach the students about 60% of the computers promised in April 2020. The inequality worsened during the pandemic and the government failed in its successive promises. We have to rescue those who are back there so that we can all walk forward without compromising the quality of learning or the future opportunities of each student. Mr. Minister will lie and say the contagons of the custom, which he has done a lot and which brings extraordinary numbers, but, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, we know that in six years, you have done less than your predecessors in the Ministry of Education. Although we did not agree, Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues or even Marçal Grilo ruled more and did more by the educational system in a year than you did in six years. Minister, I wish you health and long life. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u47	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u48	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u49	Madam President, it would be very interesting to have some time to examine, point to point, the set of free statements that Mrs Cláudia André has made here and we could immediately begin by her statement that most students continue without a teacher in fundamental disciplines. It's a round lie, round like everything! Only Mrs Cláudia André to tell a lie of these, with this disembarkation, in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then he told us about the lack of teachers. The government has not now found the lack of teachers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u50	Sometimes it looks! [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u51	I think there are serious things that give you the will to laugh, but you shouldn't give. They have been taking micro-management measures, the possible ones in the current legal framework, as you know, indeed, you and the social partners, because they were informed of what was being done. This process was interrupted because this political cycle was interrupted, but it was not because of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that this political cycle was interrupted and we are confident that we will resume it. PSD's talking, he's talking, but he's out of memory. Looks like you've discovered the lack of teachers now! Rui Rio, President of the PSD, in July 2019, said there were more teachers. It was another part of the known general theory that it was necessary to end waste in the Public Administration, that there were more teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u53	But Rui Rio wasn't even being original, as, in fact, it's usual. Rui Rio was just imitating Nuno Crato, who in his time said that there was no lack of teachers, said that there were even more teachers and that they needed to be dispensed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u54	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u55	Now came, with the same lack of memory, former Minister Nuno Crato said that the lack of teachers was an announced drama. No, the lack of teachers was not an announced drama, it was a drama caused by your minister, who removed tens of thousands of teachers from public school, and continue to say that there were more teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u56	Six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u57	Rui Rio carelessly imitates the lack of vision of Nuno Crato. But speaking of school... [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] Mrs. Cláudia André, instead of always shouting, listen, which is able to do you good. Speaking of school, what Rui Rio said in 2019 to support his thesis that there were most teachers just reveals lack of study! It is that Rui Rio, within his theory that it is necessary to eliminate waste in the Public Administration, said that there were more teachers, because there were less children. However, despite the 2021 censuses, we have not yet recovered the resident population that we had in 2011, the truth is that we have already begun to recover and for three years we have had an increase of the resident population, especially in the younger, from zero to four years, which obviously your President did not know when he was saying that there were less children and that therefore there were not so many teachers needed. [[PSD protests.]] The truth is this PSD uses too much lightness on education issues, and it's not from now on. When, in the previous legislature, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposed here, in the Assembly of the Republic, that a study should be requested to the National Education Council on the modernization of the teacher recruitment regime for public school, because we knew that it was necessary to modify it to solve the problems, what did the PSD do? He abstained. I mean, we thought it was necessary to do the studies to solve the problems and the PSD thought it wasn't, because it was focused on other things. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u58	The problem is that the inconsistencies and the suddenness of Rui Rio, the permanent improvisation, the politicalization in 200 characters on social networks is something that involves a very great risk: that of returning to that period when Passos Coelho, before the elections, said that he did not cut pensions, that he did not cut wages, that he did not cut anything, that he did not cut unemployment benefit and then cut everything. That's the risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u59	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u60	Six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u61	The problem is that Rui Rio has now discovered the electoral mantra that he is in the center and has even decided to abandon the CDS to his luck to try to credible this narrative. But it is all the foam of the days, it is only electoral calculus, because Rui Rio did not do the housework that would be necessary to have any concrete idea about what it is to turn to the country, or not to turn to the center. Therefore, in matters as decisive as this one, the PSD continues to speak of color. [[PSD protests.]] It is true that in the fundamental indicators, in the robust indicators that are internationally recognized as a reference to the evaluation of the education system, we have the following: in relation to school dropout, we came from 13, 7 % in 2015 to 8, 9 % in 2020. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u62	The PSD has left us below the European average and we have already exceeded the European targets. And if 8, 9 % was already better than the European average, the value of the third quarter of this year is even better: 5, 2 %, a historical value. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] in these years of educational policies focused on promoting success for all, the portuguese school has achieved a remarkable improvement of school results. For example, the increase in the rate of pre-schooling from 91 % to 97 %; for example, a reduction of more than 60 % in the rates of retention and withdrawal of basic education; for example, an increase of 14 % in the conclusions of secondary education in three years, showing that there are no breaks. These are results such as those that make us today have the highest number of students in higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u64	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that these results show that this PS governance has not focused on the wrong things that you focus on: the false meritocracy and the policy of rankings. The PS government's policy focused on more education, better education, quality education for all, without discrimination, combating inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u65	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u66	That's what you don't understand, that's what it costs you, because Rui Rio is still a copy of Nuno Crato, as far as education is concerned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u67	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u68	Madam President, Minister for Education: I am not here to warn you. It's been the time of the alerts I had to make to you and that the Left Block was doing over six years. I would like to confront him with his inconsistencies, with the inconsistencies of his governance, not only those that resulted from the unpredictable times of education in pandemic times, but above all those who, after the unpredictability passed, confirmed the incompetence of this Ministry of Education—sometimes, tempered with some overconfidence. I remember the issue of computers and the promise that they would be distributed to all children and teachers at the beginning of the school year. I ask you, how many are currently to be distributed? I remember # StudyEmCasa and the promises made to teachers that they would benefit in their career and that there would be cost aid for those who were mobilized to go record the classes that would be broadcast by television. I ask you, where have these promises been? I remember reports of lack of transparency on outbreaks, cases of COVID, children in isolation, children without classes in schools throughout the country and I remember that FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) put the Ministry in court regarding the need to disseminate these data, and won.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u70	I ask you: what has you done since the beginning of the school year to improve the transparency of the data that are also used to design and implement public policies to combat pandemic in schools? I remember the week of school break, in January, announced by the Prime Minister, but whose information has remained to reach schools and there are still many nuances that are not yet clarified about, for example, whether children with special educational needs will have the compensation of the school break that has been announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u71	It's bullshit behind nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u72	I remember what has already been announced here as the most serious mistake of this government, which is the lack of teachers in schools, because six years later the lack of teachers was, yes, caused by the right-wing government and, therefore, well-known and, therefore, announced so many times by us and so many times, also by social communication, by schools, by school directors, by teachers' unions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u74	I remember what Mr. Minister of Education said about the lack of teachers when we started warning. He replied: "It is timely. It's a point problem. Do not keep on seeking. ” I now ask: do you recognize that it is systemic? Do you recognize that there is a structural problem of lack of teachers in schools? How many kids are out of class? How many disciplines? How long will we have to depend on news from newspapers, surveys, from FenPROF, because the Ministry of Education is not able to transmit official data, because it is not able to recognize its strategic error, which was not to perceive, not want to see and not want to solve the problem of lack of teachers in schools? Lack of teachers in schools means children without the constitutional right to education, without the right to study. We know what the right one thinks about this. Their adherence to the problem is opportunistic and I say - without half-tones, because Rui Rio said on June 25, 2019 that there were more teachers. Now he's changed his mind. Now, he recognizes that there is a lack of teachers in schools. About the PSD we already know what you think, you always found that public services were state fat. What I wanted to know, Minister, is your apology. Because if the PS here said to know what is the cause of lack of teachers, namely the dismissal of so many young people, of so many hired during the government of the troika, if he already knew the cause - and I brought two hypotheses: either I didn't know or I didn't want or I couldn't solve it, but, of course, I didn't. — if you knew the problem, then it was incompetent to solve it. In addition to being incompetent to resolve it, the Government tried to chumbar in the Assembly of the Republic all the measures proposed by the Left Block and which brought solutions to the system attracting teachers, who are so lacking, and intended to make a task-force in order to recommend schools to overload teachers, who are already so overloaded and so many in burnout, with extraordinary hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u76	This incompetence of the Government has international recognition of the European Commission, which has initiated an infringement procedure and has been given to the Minister for two months to respond to the discrimination of teachers hired in relation to teachers in the framework in terms of wages and seniority. This is the image of Portuguese education out there and this is the final legacy of the Minister, who was marked by this recognition of the European Commission that teachers hired in Portugal are damaged in wages and hours in the face of linked teachers, hired teachers, these, of which these students are dependent, without classes, to get back to school.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u77	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u78	I conclude, Madam President. I do not ask you, Minister, what you will do and how you will do what you have not done so far. I ask you if you have already answered the European Commission about the procedure it raised. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u80	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : A lot has been said about the learning recovery plan, but in many cases, Minister, any good intentions have ended up in the harsh reality. In many schools, even where there was a recovery plan, it was difficult to move forward, and it was not just because the epidemic continues. It was also because the implementation of what was planned required, as it is evident, the strengthening of the number of workers, particularly teachers. It is not possible to strengthen support, co-adjudication and other responses, even in the development of projects, without duly strengthening the hourly credit and without placing more teachers. However, the information coming from schools shows that there was neither increased credit times in many cases nor strengthened workers. In the few cases where this happened, there were psychologists, in fact, there were educators, there were therapists—and well—but most of the time there were no teachers—and bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u81	Ask FenPROF!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u82	There is no recovery of learning without teachers. More: it is also known of cases in which measures were proposed to protect, such as the strengthening of the hourly credit, the reduction of the number of students per class, the requirement of teachers or the reinforcement of specialized technicians, but were not authorised, did not come the 'ok' above. The government is not responding to the problems. Smaller classes are needed, more teachers are needed for co-adjudication work, more pedagogical support for students with special educational needs, the release of teachers of bureaucratic tasks, which are at ten, needs the strengthening of multidisciplinary teams. What is not necessary, Minister, is intransigence as the one which once again the Ministry has led to the publication of the amending order to the school calendar, whose indispensable process of collective bargaining was fully overrun by the Government. Again! Again! In addition, Mr Minister, it is not with a task force constituted by the troika DGE / DGEA / DGE / DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments, Directorate-General for School Administration, Directorate-General for Education ), promoting a climate of fear in visits to schools, in which the hours placed on offer for school recruitment have not been filled, telling teachers, the bay of threat, that the errors at extraordinary hours will have to be justified or, then, lead to a disciplinary process, that there will be some prospect of advance in the resolution of the problem that is being put. All this situation, rather than the epidemic, stems from a fundamental problem, which has been addressed here today, and for which the CFP has long been alerting and the government has done nothing to solve: the lack of teachers, who are reaching critical levels and seriously compromises public school. currently, and calculating below, about 10 000 students still do not have all teachers. Yesterday, there were 196 hours a contest with an average of 9, 86 hours, being 1933 hours a contest. The number dropped until this week, but, attention, because the schools, given the proximity of the school break, stop launching the schedules, as is normal, on the supply platform, delaying to the beginning of January this same release. Mr Minister, there is a fundamental question: thousands of teachers will retire in the next decade. In fact, we know who are responsible, who was on the side of those who spoke in « cutting the state's fats »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u83	Who was on the management side? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u84	...of those who sent away—they sent thousands and thousands away! — but what is true, Mr Minister, is that, in this Parliament — and in the previous one we already knew of this problem, and the CFP successively denounced it — the replies by the Government were missing. Thousands of teachers will retire in the next decade and the private ones, Mr Minister, are already sharpening their knives to tie them in public school, because they know that no measures are being taken to counteract this scenario. Because the Government of the Socialist Party has ignored the proposals of the CFP with concrete measures to combat the aging of the teaching body and to create conditions for the attractiveness of young people to teaching. It is necessary to combat the enormous precariousness of the more than 20 000 teachers hired, by September 2022, of teachers with 10 or more years of service and by September 2023, of teachers with three or more years of service. We put that here. He was rejected. It is necessary to create incentives for the relocation of teachers to their most deprived regions, such as Great Lisbon and the Algarve, such as support for renting, filling out incomplete schedules and so many other things. Measures have also been rejected here. It is urgent to solve problems that have been dragged long ago, such as the limitations of the norm-work, constraints on career progression, counting of service time and career reconstruction, proper organization of work, access to retirement. Above all, we have put forward proposals here, Minister. Unfortunately, they have been rejected and now, alas, alas, alas, ail we have here a problem, uncle, uncle, missing teachers. That's right! They're missing, and not few. Tardam is the Government's responses and measures to resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u85	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u86	I will finish, Madam President, by saying the following: teachers and educators, specialized technicians, administrative and auxiliaries, students and their families know that they can count on the PCP next to them every day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u87	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u88	... with its decisive force, with its proposal, with its struggle and its action to defend the public school and give the necessary answer to the problems that are placed and which the Government of the Socialist Party opts to leave unanswered. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u89	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Education: We are at the end of the first period of another school year and at the end of the Minister's governance which was most time ahead of the past of education. The balance sheet is not entirely positive. Adding to a pandemic that often sends entire classes home, there are school directors and, above all, parents and students who despair about the lack of teachers. There are classes and there are disciplines that continue, at the end of the first period, without a teacher, and the promise of replacement of teachers with speed failed. There are shortcomings in the most varied disciplines since the beginning of the school year, being the most critical to Mathematics, Portuguese, English, Geography. Many hours, many and many hours are missing, which negatively affects many thousands of students. Many of the nearly 7000 hours that were launched by schools since 15 September have been completed using the distribution of extraordinary teaching services or the recruitment of candidates without the necessary qualifications. The chaos in schools is causing an overload of work on teachers — who often end up in a medically low state — and affecting tens of thousands of students who are without any learning of these disciplines. And we in the CDS-PP asked the Minister how he would recover from this delay. There are students who are at zero. Where is the right to education and equal opportunities? This is a long-announced problem. The aging of the teaching class and the lack of attractiveness are some of the reasons for the shortage of teachers. It is necessary to dignify the profession and make it respected, and this is not being done by the PS government. How do you expect, Minister, to deal with the subject of the ageing of teachers? What investment has been made in its formation, both initial and continuous? This problem will be increasingly common and frequent, increasingly disciplines and increasingly schools, if it is not solved. Adding to this, the pandemic has forced many students to teach at a distance, and here too the evaluation is negative. The universality that had been promised was in the way. They are factual data, Minister. For example, the National Association of Grouping Directors and Public Schools states that we live before a reducing teaching, and it is so reducing that the Ministry of Education has instituted the recovery plan, because teaching at a distance raises problems. How do you intend to resolve all these issues with which the educational community is debating? What do you intend to do to mitigate your impact on learning and prevent further deepening of difficulties and inequalities? If this pandemic affects all, there are some who may come to be even more harmed. I am referring to the students who started secondary education in pandemics and who are now preparing to enter university at the end of this school year, I would say, under unequal learning conditions. What can you say, Minister, to all these young people who cannot and should not be harmed in the examinations of access to higher education? Is your Ministry worrying about this problem and talking to the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education? We still have two final and quick questions, Mr Minister, which deserve an objective, clear and true answer. Why aren't the data on the number of classes and students in confinement disclosed at national level? In a country where more than 80% of young people between the ages of 12 and 18 are vaccinated and where it is now decided to give priority to the youngest, between the ages of 5 and 11, what positive practical effects can these levels of vaccination have on school life?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u92	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mr Minister, what efforts have you taken with the Ministry of Health, for example, so that students are not harmed by delays in issuing test codes, which have required 14-day and not 10-day isolations to be able to return to school? Finally, what has done to ensure that there is the same treatment throughout the educational system by health delegates, who so often decide on different criteria? We want equal education for all and not education for regions or places. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u93	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, Minister : As if we have not had enough of what we have heard here this afternoon, we cannot fail to tell you, Mr Minister, about the evaluation, on the balance sheet of this short term - it is true that it is only two years - that, in fact, it seems to be very little friend of education. The folder you have in your hands is essential to ensure quality education in our country, to ensure that children and young people have access to a real public service—in which not only your professionals are valued, but also to ensure that educational and pedagogical contexts are reviewed and adapted to new needs and, above all, to the challenges of our time, as is the case with CVID-19. Like what happened last year — the NAP has already asked you, Minister, several times in this regard, we have asked you again about the health situation in schools, including the list of schools where cases of CVID-19 have been identified since September 2021, also about the number of students and infected professionals, the number of classes in isolation and the strengthening of prevention measures, and the response we have obtained so far has been null. What leads you, Minister, not to provide us with such data, such information, to which there is no transparency? This is a cross-cutting concern to other political forces, as has been mentioned here today. If, on the one hand, it was very eager to announce the opinions of the Directorate-General for Health on the vaccination of children between 5 and 11 years of age,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u95	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u96	... on the other hand, we have not seen this same speed in the information that is required of you. Therefore, the Government of which Mr Minister is a member — we cannot forget that these children have a school context — has an obligation to respond to requests for information, and not only those of the Assembly of the Republic. In addition, in 2020, the Ministry of Education responded only to the request for information from FENPROF after the appeal of a judgment issued by the Administrative Court of Lisbon. We therefore ask, Minister, whether you are considering replying only after a new sentence, either to FenPROF, or to the necessary information to this House of the Republic. On the other hand, it was also important to know whether it was intended to ensure the testing of all education professionals, because, Minister, it is essential to ensure that, effectively, there are procedures that guarantee security in the educational context. Vaccination, as we know, does not prevent contagion or prevent difficulties in the necessary screening. The lack of increased vaccination, yes, may represent a much higher risk of serious illness than children themselves who contract the infection. Finally, Mr Minister, there is something I would like to ask you. There are many reports of parents whose children have been left without a teacher because of social isolation. This is a very worrying issue for the future of these children and young people, for their learning context. There are educational processes that will never recover after all this situation, which, as we know, was very complex all over the world and not only in Portugal, but that required more of its protection. In fact, we cannot continue to lack teachers, without there being a restructuring from an educational point of view. The NAP, in time, has not stopped presenting proposals and solutions, and so far nothing has been done. Therefore, Mr Minister, we would like to know, on the one hand, whether or not you are having a restructuring in this area too, to ensure that isolation does not harm children and the educational context, and on the other hand, until you continue not to provide the information that has been repeatedly requested by this House and other entities, such as FenPROF.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u97	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens' has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Education : The appreciation of public school should be made every day, but much more so at this time, when new problems are added to the problems that have already existed. As much as the Government insists on the theory that everything is well — we will hear it, of course — that the public school will go through great trials in the future, and in the near future, which will require, on the one hand, different political options and, on the other hand, the strengthening of the number of teachers, the number of educational assistants and administrative assistants. We therefore ask: how will Mr Education Minister explain to the country, to parents and teachers and, above all, to students who have thousands of teachers in unemployment or working in other professions, while there are thousands of students without teachers? How will we credibility the profession of teacher, have young people again to choose this profession, if what is said to them is that they will easily be replaced by other professionals, just because the government does not want to value careers, do not want to give support to travel or relocation? It is not enough to regret the lack of teachers in many schools, because this problem is not new, and the Minister of Education — the Minister in front of this Ministry — cannot say that he does not know. But the Greens can say that nothing has been done to strengthen the number of teachers in schools, to mitigate the consequences of an aged professional class and to make the teacher profession attractive. Mr Minister, when we focus on the problem in the teachers, we are saying that without these professionals, the public school is weakened by its objectives and its main role, which is to guarantee the right to equal access opportunities and to school success. This is also why it is even more intriguing to realize that it continues to insist on a stance of contempt for the representative structures of the teachers, as even a few days ago FENPROF again denounced. In conclusion, and because we have been asked this by some schools, we would like to leave here the concern about school meals. Many are children and young people, families, who need the meal that school guarantees, and this need will remain in the first week of January, in which schools will be closed. Are or are you not prepared, together with the schools, the distribution of meals in take-away for students?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u99	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u100	Mr. Minister, let me finish. Don't get mad! You'll have time to answer me. I hope you answer it, because you don't have the habit of answering my questions! Are the difficulties of some students who live further away from schools and school groups, who will need this support so that they have guaranteed at least one full meal a day? Will school meals be open to serve meals? Will the option be to force students to go to school for a meal and then return home? [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u101	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u102	Madam President: Before and before going to direct questions to Mr. Minister, I would like to answer Mr. Porfirio Silva, who accused Mr. Rui Rio of politics in 200 characters. Indeed, Mr, if we are to see what Mr said in the last two years, only his 200 characters appear on Twitter and Facebook. So at least you have to think a little before you attack others, when you do exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u103	Don't be a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u104	Take it easy, Mr. Deputy, take it easy! « Porfirio Silva defends new model of education», « Porfirio Silva says that Rui Rio has no sense of state», « Porfirio Silva says that André Ventura is a fascizoide », « Porfirio Silva says that Volt is salazarist propaganda. Where's all this? On Twitter and on Facebook by Mr Porfirio Silva!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u105	He can't open his mouth without telling a lie! What a bad education!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u106	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u107	So think about it. It's just thinking. It's just stopping, thinking and doing. Mr. Minister of Education, for a minister who said that no one was left behind at the beginning of this pandemic, I would like you to explain here how we have 1344 empty hours; how we have 710 fewer contracts in schools; how there are today 700 teachers in schools; how we have 20,000 to 30,000 students without classes; and how only 60% of computers have arrived at schools. All this for a minister who said no one was left behind. It is important to realize, Mr Minister, whether you are going to assume your responsibility or whether, as we hope, even if the PS wins the elections — which we hope will not happen — it will be Mr Minister to stay behind, because it is disaster after disaster in education, goal after goal that remains to be achieved, objective behind objective that remains to be achieved. It's 20,000 to 30,000 students without classes. What answer do you have to give to this?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u108	To close this debate, Mr. Minister for Education, Mr. Tiago Brandão Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen : Good afternoon to all. Obviously, it is with great pleasure that I am here today and that I come before this Permanent Commission to answer how education, in the country's image, has continued on a path of stability in recent years, of progress and cohesion and, in the same movement, faces flexibility, but also, in a very efficient way, the pandemic, which we have all ended up facing. Mrs Cláudia André spoke to me about balance sheets, but the balance sheets, I have to say, tell me little, mainly because every day we can make a different balance sheet, and the balance sheet we made yesterday is different from the balance sheet we make today or the balance sheet we will make tomorrow. But the principles and results already tell me a lot, and this is a government that, by having principles, has yielded results. Madam Member, the first major result of this government is, ironically, to be able to say here that the converted Member of Parliament, Claude André, came to laudably point out the results of the tests of measurement as something truly important. The honourable Member forgets or, at least, does not remember that this parliamentary group to which she belongs presented the evidence of measurement as the next Devil that would arrive in the country. The honourable Member is here today to ratify the Government and correct its parliamentary group by saying that the evidence of measurement is truly important. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u110	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u111	My team and I say: « Thank you! », because schools and families also say thank you for having proof of measurement. On the other hand, it must be said that the results have been unequivocal and therefore it is important not to ignore them: the increase in the rate of pre-schooling, which in 2015 was 91 % and, in 2020, was 97 % ; the very significant reduction in school dropout, which we recall in 2015 was 14 % and last year we reached 8 %, 9 %, when we were contractual with Europe 10 %, and we have as target 9 % to 2030, and we had already this year in the first two quarters 6, 5 % and in the third quarter of 5, 2 %; the very significant reduction in retention rates ; and above all, because we are also talking about teachers today, the very significant reduction in the student / teacher ratio between 2015 and 2020. And this is revealed to us by all the indicators. Today, we have also talked about everything we have done for the valorization of professionals working in school and, above all, for the stability of teaching function—because we know well that teachers, teachers and educators, play an absolutely irreplaceable role in promoting the quality of our public school—for the stability of teaching projects and for improving the quality of our learning. We do not forget when we reduce the norm-work from five to three years, we do not forget how new and better conditions for the mobility of teachers, the reinforcement of vacancies in successive competitions and the reduction of the number of students per class. It is important to bring here a set of measures that were truly essential for teachers to have more and more conditions. But Mrs Deputy's amnesia is the same as it brings today to the arena of defense of teachers and public school a parliamentary group that, at some point before 2015, spent 200 million euros on terminations of teachers' contracts. We had a government that reduced the education budget between 2011 and 2015, which expelled thousands and thousands of teachers from the teaching career and we have the President of the Social Democratic Party who says that we have to make the public administration worse and, when asked about whether it would reduce the public administration, says : « Once it has arrived to the government,... » — if ever that happens and if the person is intellectually serious, as Mr. President of the PSD who is — «... I have no other way but to do so. And he also says, for example, that there are more teachers, which unfortunately means that we have a problem. In fact, say it two years ago, says it will work in this direction, and say it without doing any study or having any forecast. And wonderful coherence to this PSD that said, in the past, of Marçal Grilo and Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, what not even in the PSD is said of the cheerleading candidates for the party leader. I would like to say that today, this PSD Parliamentary Group says of me what was then said of Marçal Grilo and Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues. I should like to say that, because, honourable Member, history sometimes arranges the shelves — hopefully, the good that you will say of me in the future to say of another or another, that it will be here, even worse. The PSD believes that, perhaps inspired by the belligerent nature of its leadership, the worse, the better.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u112	Leave the PSD there and talk about education!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u113	Yeah, we're here, Mrs. Member, I want to tell you that the better, the better, because the worse, the worse. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] The Left Block already got everything you wanted. He also managed to overthrow the government that put more teachers in schools, which made it possible for the school years to begin in time, which achieved more computers and distributed more computers than ever had been distributed. The Block, which so often welcomed what it was co-author, comes here today to criticize everything, try to destroy everything and deny everything that it also succeeded. Very likely, because the Left Block is distracted from what it has achieved and is sorry for what we have, right now. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] We do not ignore what the Block says, but it has managed us to build and it must fit us, Mrs. Member, eyes in the eyes, to continue to build.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u114	What about the lack of teachers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u115	This is the time when we must also continue to build. What I meant, sirs. Members—and the time I have at my disposal is short—that over the past six years, also in co-orientation, obviously, with the Left Block, with the Portuguese Communist Party, with the Greens Ecological Party, and very closely with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we have improved our education system and, above all, our national education service when compared to what we had until 2015. This is due to an unequivocal wager in public school and an unequivocal appreciation of the professionals we have in public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. We have come to the end of this debate and I wish to say goodbye to the Minister and to the Members. State Secretaries, wishing them Good Holidays. We turn to point 3, which concerns the votes. We will vote for draft resolution No 1542 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Dubai. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic, I Serie, paragraphs 1 to 7 concerning plenary meetings held on 15, 16, 17, 29 and 30 September and 1 and 6 October 2021 are hereby approved. Let's vote. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously, with the absence of the NAP recorded.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I ask the Secretary to read out the opinion contained in Case No 164 / 14. a-CTED / 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to Case 2460 / 20.4T8BRG — Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga — Local Court Cable of Braga — Judge 4, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Pires ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the relevant cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] I would now like to ask the Secretary to read out the opinion contained in Rule 170 / 14. a-CTED / 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u119	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, with regard to the Inquiry 4923 / 21.5T9LSB — Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon — Court of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — Judge 5, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Carneiro ( PSD) to present statements as an assistant in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-16.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted our agenda. I inform the House that the next meeting of the Standing Committee will take place on 6 January 2022 on Thursday at 3 p.m. with the following agenda item: at the first item, political statements, followed by a political debate with the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, required by the CFP. We've reached the end of our meeting. Before I say good-bye, because this is the last Standing Committee this year, to everyone's wish Happy Birthday and good tickets to the New Year. Good afternoon to all and to all. The meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 2 minutes.]]
