ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u1	Good morning, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, we're going to start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 21 minutes.]] As you know, the next item is the general conclusion of the debate on the Proposal for a Law No 116 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022, followed by the closure of the State budget. Finally, we shall have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Today, I anticipate that we have to interrupt the session about 13 hours and 30 minutes, at most, to have some time. Then we will have to continue the first point during the afternoon part, before the closing, because we no longer have time, during the morning, to explore it and finish it. I shall give the floor, for an intervention, to Mr. Minister of State and Finance, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are presenting ourselves here today with evidence given, after six successful budgets. Six budgets that have brought about successive improvements to the lives of the Portuguese; six budgets that have represented a turn-around of a cycle of austerity and many sacrifices for the Portuguese; six budgets that have made it possible to reconcile more employment and growth, with rigour, responsibility and certain accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important to remember that six years ago, when we took office, we lived in a very different country: the unemployment rate was 13%; the economy was in a deep recession; the Portuguese were penalized with cuts in wages, pensions, social benefits and were hopeless in the future; the young people were invited to emigrate. At the financial level, the situation was dramatic: public debt had increased 33 % over the past four years; the country was in excessive deficit procedure, leading to a European Commission sanction process; all rating agencies classified Portuguese debt as 'waste'; the financial sector was in a situation of great instability, with several banks in difficulty. The PS government has made a commitment, promised to build a better alternative for the country and has fulfilled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We did — that is what we did. We were able to converge in economic terms with the euro area in four consecutive years. Between 2016 and 2019, the Portuguese economy had an average growth of 2, 7 % per year, 1 percentage point above the euro area ; we ensured greater employment growth in Europe in four years, with more 8, 2 % of workers or more 370 000 jobs ; we reduced the unemployment rate by 13 % to half, reaching 6, 6 % in 2019, which meant less than 300 000 unemployed than in 2015 ; we had the second largest reduction of the public debt in the euro area by 15 points of GDP (gross domestic product) and the beginning of a path of confidence in the future of the country and external credibility. Budget after Budget, we have shown the Portuguese that budgetary responsibility and certain accounts are not synonymous with austerity. Budget after Budget we built the way for the first budgetary surplus of democracy and recovered our external credibility and the stability and financial security of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Budget after Budget, we gained the confidence of the Portuguese that in 2019 validated this strategy and the path that they wanted us to continue to do. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2020, the emergence of the pandemic has generated the biggest global economic crisis since World War II. For the first time in our history, we faced an economic crisis in a way that the Portuguese had never seen before. Since the first hour, we have responded to the crisis with solidarity and not austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have given massive support to families and businesses to help them cope with the pandemic. As important as this, from the beginning we have not hesitated and committed ourselves to maintaining extraordinary support as long as the pandemic lasts, at any cost. This determination has given the entrepreneurs and workers confidence not to give up. When, a year ago, we presented the State Budget for 2021, many announced the disaster in three areas. They said that the SNS (National Health Service) was not prepared for the pandemic or vaccination, that the crisis and the increase in the minimum wage would trigger unemployment and company failures, that the Budget gave everything to everyone, who was irresponsible and pre-announced Reformary Budgets and the financial disaster. Well, after a year of implementation of the State budget, what is the balance sheet? First, the National Health Service, reinforced with 30,000 professionals, faced the pandemic with determination and courage and Portugal is today the country of the world with the highest percentage of the population vaccinated against COVID-19. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the unemployment rate is now 6, 4 %. It is less than half a million workers than in the peak of the previous crisis when the unemployment rate reached 18 %. The unemployment rate in the euro area was not 6, 4 % but 8 %. The level of employment is already the highest of the last 12 years and above the level of the pre- pandemic period. Portugal has managed to maintain its productive capacity intact, decisive in order to ensure, now, the rapid economic recovery in progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, after one year, we are here without amending budgets and without financial crises. In fact, exactly the opposite happened: this year we had the first public debt issue at 10 years with a negative interest rate. It's the investors who pay to have our debt. Last month, after more than one year of a deep global crisis, generated by the pandemic, Portugal was from the first countries in the world to achieve not a fall in the rating but a rise in the rating of the Republic. These are clear signs of recognition of the policy options and of the international credibility that the Portuguese State has obtained. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today in the face of a determining State budget to ensure a rapid recovery of the Portuguese economy and fundamental to achieve an economic growth of 5, 5 %, the largest in recent decades, which enables us to resume economic convergence with Europe — a growth based on the strong increase in public and private investment. Public investment is expected to grow by about 30 %, the highest rate in the European Union. There is also a strong stimulus to the growth of private investment. The State budget for 2022 provides for more than 900 million deep-lost incentives through the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) to finance private investment in innovation, industry decarbonisation, digitisation and skills of Portuguese business fabric. We will also launch the new tax incentive for recovery, which will allow companies to deduct up to 25 % of the investments made within IRC ( corporate income tax ). We also provide for the elimination of the special payment on behalf of SMEs ( small and medium-sized enterprises ). To recapitalize the companies most affected by the pandemic, we will provide the Capitalization and Resilience Fund, managed by the Portuguese Development Bank, with EUR 1300 million. The Portuguese Development Bank will still be capitalised with more than 250 million euros to implement the InvestEU programme, which aims to capitalize businesses and promote green investments. It is also an IRS budget which places on the economic recovery by improving the income of families, improving the available income of the middle classes, through a package of IRSs (tax on income of natural persons) worth EUR 230 million, and includes the completion of the reform of the steps of IRS which together with the 2018 amendments represents a tax relief of around EUR 500 million for families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also improves the income of families with the extraordinary increase in social benefits, such as pensions and allowances, amounting to EUR 350 million. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a budget that gives priority to the recovery of the social effects of the pandemic, particularly on health and education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a budget that invests in the National Health Service, with a budget boost of 700 million euros, the second largest ever. In education, it is a Budget that does not give up this generation of children and young people who have gone through the pandemic during their school period and who will benefit from the most ambitious educational programme ever, by mobilising EUR 900 million for the recovery of learning. It is also the Budget which places on the major strategic challenges of the country, such as inequalities, the demographic challenge, the fight against climate change and which places on productivity through support for digitisation, qualifications and innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a Budget that strengthens the protection of the most vulnerable and the poorest by creating a guarantee for childhood that ensures, by 2023, that no child in extreme poverty will have less than 1200 € per year of State support, i.e. more 167 % than currently. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also reinforces this through an extraordinary increase of €10 for all pensions up to €1097, covering more than 2, 3 million pensioners, and through the increased minimum wage of always, in 40 €. It is a Budget that also faces, with determination, the demographic challenge, supporting young people and families with children. First, we guarantee free daycare for all children, over the next three years, starting in September for those who enter 1. year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, we guarantee, through the strengthening of IRS deductions, the increase of up to €900 the tax deduction for each child up to 6 years of age, from the second child. Third, through the strengthening of subsidies and the new supplement, we will ensure that no child, regardless of family income, receives less than €600 per year of State support. This measure represents an increase of 62 % in 1. o is 2. the steps and the 3. a is 4. the steps the increases may be even higher due to the new complement, because these are even children who currently can not even receive any support from the state. It is a budget that bets on the future of the country, also by supporting young people. It extends the IRS Young from three to five years and extends it to independent workers, ensuring a reduction of IRS up to 30 %. Investment in affordable housing of about 200 million euros. In the fight against climate change, this budget stands out from subsidies to the decarbonisation of industry, energy efficiency subsidies, massive investments in collective transport, which go through the expansion of the meters of Lisbon, Porto and Mondego, in 400 million euros, and in the railway with almost 500 million euros. In addition, it is expected to create a new rate on single-use plastic packaging and air travel. It is therefore also a budget that fights climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government and this budget are not only limited to making choices for the present, they aim at the well-being of Portuguese in the future. We have presented here a budget that recognises the legacy of the crisis and bets on economic and social recovery. And, as we have seen, we are going even further and we have put forward proposals that allow for significant progress in the structural challenges facing Portuguese society: in demographics, in combating inequalities, in responding to climate change and in increasing productivity through digital transition, qualifications and innovation. All this without removing anything, without cutting, without returning to everything that has been guaranteed and won since 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat, let it be clear: without withdrawing, without cutting, without returning to everything that has been achieved and conquered since 2016. On the contrary, it continues to advance and improve the lives of Portuguese people, always advancing, with a sense of responsibility and balance, without allowing them to retreat, who would be penalizing the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has also left a heavy legacy of public debt in Portugal and around the world. For this reason, the State budget for 2022 follows a course of action initiated this year to reduce public debt. With the help of strong economic recovery, public debt is expected to fall from 135 % of GDP by 2020 to 122, 8 % by 2022. This debt reduction path will strengthen credibility and confidence in the Portuguese economy, enabling the State and companies to better finance conditions and attract foreign direct investment to Portugal. This credibility allows the Portuguese State to finance at lower costs today than the other countries in southern Europe, such as Spain, Italy and Greece, and therefore all of us, Portuguese, today pay less EUR 3000 million per year than we paid in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a high saving that enables us to invest sustainably in the SNS, in education and in improving the income of all Portuguese people. This path of reducing public debt reinforces the stability and financial security of Portuguese and makes them able to look to the future with greater confidence, optimism and no black clouds on the horizon. This is therefore the budget proposal that Portugal needs, at the same time good for the Portuguese and responsible. The answer in which all Portuguese can be seen, because the country does not want or needs to return to where it was not happy. It is a budget that we are prepared to improve, as we have always done, with full sense of commitment at the stage of speciality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the approval of this Budget the Country can take a decisive step in the robust and full recovery of the most serious economic and social crises it has faced. It is not time to risk and throw everything away, it is time to continue to choose a balanced and sustainable path to the recovery of the country and to improve the lives of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. It has 14 requests for clarification, to which, as you have already told the Bureau, it will respond in groups of seven. The first request for clarification lies with Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance, this debate is truly surreal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u5	Surreal I know who he is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u6	Surreal not because we are discussing a budget for which we do not know what your final vote will be, but because we simply, Minister, do not know what we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u7	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u8	And this is the first question I have: have you been talking about the proposal that you gave to the House or the list of goods that has been presented to the Portuguese in recent days? Because no one already understands what the budget proposal is. [[PSD applause.]] I therefore ask you these questions, Minister, because I assume that this list of goods is not fiscally neutral: what is the cost involved?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u10	What is the debt involved? What is the impact on the growth of the economy that these measures can advocate? Are you going to grow more? Is it going to grow less? If the economy grows more with these measures, why did this not already appear in the budget proposal? If you're going to grow less, why did you accept them? It was good for all of us to understand this, because nothing is neutral in budgetary terms and in terms of growth, Minister. This only proves that the Minister and the Government are without strategy, without budget. What he presented to us today, in his speech, is not what he gave Parliament, it is the blanket of cuts that he came to after negotiating in the last few days with the extreme left. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, you have yet to say that a corrective budget has not been required this year. And I will answer you, Minister : of course not. You know why? Because if it was to execute, to make all the ads, maybe, one didn't arrive, two or three were needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u11	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u12	Just as you announce, but then they take one part and don't execute another, they can still come to an end and brag that they don't do rectifications! [[PSD applause.]] To have 30 billion for informal caregivers and to spend 1 million, to say that the hospitals, Sintra, Seixal, the East of Lisbon will be done, and not to do any, it was amazing if it presented rectifications after nothing to do, in the face of the announcements he presented us here. But let me point out even more the disappointment in recent days with the energy crisis. The Minister of Economy had not finished the interview saying that he would not move into the tax burden on fuels and the Ministry of Finance was already reviewing the tax burden on fuels!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u13	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u14	Misleading him and denying him before. But the Ministry of Finance was still saying "Be careful! This will be reviewed every three months and Mr. Prime Minister was saying, "No, this will be reviewed weekly! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[President Adam Silva's laughs.]] This only proves that you are completely dismayed at the reality in which we are living. They then present a set of measures which is for Portuguese to be deceived. If there's more tax burden, why don't the taxes go down? Why does it not lower the additional on the ISP (charge on oil and energy products) instead of creating complex systems so that people will not then access and so that the government can keep all the money on its side?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u16	This is not realism, it is an intrusive way of doing politics. Finally, Minister, as he replies to all the independent entities who say: « We already knew that you don't like them ». That you don't like them is true. That's why they're trying to manipulate them. It is not only the UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) which says that it does not receive all the information from the Ministry of Finance and therefore lacks transparency, it also comes to the ASF ( Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ) or comes to the CMVM ( Securities Market Commission) saying that they have their means away and that they do not allow them to work freely, as should happen to an independent entity in Portugal. Certainly, with this government, there is no freedom in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u17	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u18	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. When, two years ago, on the last day of October 2019, the Prime Minister, through this Assembly, presented to the country the XXII Government Programme, stated textually. « (...) no one waits—or fears—backs to the progress we have already achieved (...) no one imagines—or mistrusts — that we will change the path of our path. (...) We will continue to advance (...) to go further on the trail we started and never take a step longer than the leg. Do not keep on seeking. ” Today, this Prime Minister and this Government honour the compromise then signed, presenting a budget that goes further than all the budgets of the previous State, which makes it the leftmost of all the budgets that it has so far presented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The suspicion of any socialist sympathies, the English newspaper Financial Times, in its edition on-line yesterday, referred to this Budget as, and I quote: « the most left in the recent history of Portugal ». There is therefore no way to deny what is required as evidence: this Budget proposes or enshrines the greatest ever investment in the National Health Service, the greatest ever increase in public investment, the greatest ever increase in national minimum wage, an increase of €40 to €705, the progressive freeness of daycare, the widespread increase in public service salaries which, together with progressions, promotions and career reviews, will impact about 3 % on the state wage mass, the extraordinary increase in pensions, the increase in family allowance, the increase in the so-called'minimum of existence', the increase in the available income of families, especially middle classes, with the decline of steps and greater progressiveity and fiscal justice. It should be stressed, however, that this Budget, like those who have preceded it, retains what has been perhaps the greatest merit of all the budgets of the PS governments led by António Costa : the permanent construction of a responsible balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A responsible balance between continuous improvement of income and investment-promoting trust. A responsible balance between the strengthening of public services and the reduction of public debt. A responsible balance, in short, between more social justice and certain accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Without ever taking a greater step than the leg, this Budget undertakes to resume the path — understandably interrupted by the fight against the pandemic — of reducing the budget imbalance, proposing to continue to reduce public debt and deficit, in accordance with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact to which we will, very soon again be fully bound and which we could never, in this way, ignore. It is therefore no greater step than the leg, aware that it is — and could not fail — of the importance of sound public finances for the financing of the Republic and the sustainability of our growth. And it is on growth that the question, Minister of State and Finance: the 2022 budget provides for a growth of 5, 5 % of GDP with two budgetary risks, as the Council of Public Finance points out. One — that of the evolution of the pandemic situation — is interconnected with other economies and, of course, does not depend solely on us. The other — the implementation of the RPP — is dependent on us and, in particular, on the absence of delays in the adoption of a State budget which may compromise its timely implementation. What I ask you, Minister of State and Finance, is to what extent, in addition to the compromise of all the other progressive measures provided for in the State budget, and I am talking about the increases in pensions, wages, subsidies, the collapse of steps, etc. — any rejection of the State budget may adversely affect the expected growth of our economy and employment by 2022? No one will understand the non-approval of this State budget. And no one will understand, in particular, that the left to the left of the PS may wish to join their votes to the votes of the right to lead the one who is the leftmost budget that the PS Government has submitted to the country so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u19	To request clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, I do not want to give in to the temptation to speak every time the PS has joined the right to vote on labour law in this Parliament, but I would like to address Mr Finance. The Minister presented to the Assembly of the Republic a Budget which says it was drawn up in a dialogue on the left and I would like to challenge this on the basis of an idea. The idea is that a party's proposals should be welcomed in a timely manner in keeping with its priorities, seeking real approaches to these measures, it is different from deciding what measures to accept instead of that party, how they should be implemented and asking that party to take these measures as its measures and priorities for the Budget. It's not the same thing as either of these two ideas. With regard to the proposal which you made here, I had the opportunity to ask you some questions in the last debate that we had and that you had to answer. First, on implementation in public accounts, I asked you what justifies underexecution of 923 million in current expenditure, 800 million in capital expenditure, 100 million in personal expenditure. I asked you about the execution of the informal caregiver — 30 million to be executed in each budget. I asked you for the execution of the investment money in health - of 106 million, executed 72, and the Budget keeps promises for the purchase of equipment in hospitals that have not yet been built, but the expenditure there is in the Budget to prove that the investment is going to be made. Next year, we'd be having exactly the same conversation here! I asked you about the option of paying doctors extra hours from 500 overtime hours, i.e. from another three months of work per doctor, per year. Why does the government insist on paying extra hours instead of creating conditions for more doctors? I asked you about the correct priority of changing IRS steps in a way that seems unfair to us, but it will maintain the value added tax of electricity with a huge burden on family budgets. I asked you what you want with the envelope, which does not include anything. I asked you why you keep a tax expenditure of 770 million, with the benefit of non-residents, and now I ask you what the tax expenditure on the Patent Box regime, which you want to extend and which is no more than an invitation to aggressive tax planning. I asked you whether you included 110 million EDP (Energy of Portugal ) seal tax in your budget accounts. I asked you if you think that 128 million, i.e. 0, 9 %, minus the taxes paid by the public service to the State, is a fair increase for those who had frozen wages for 10 years and only lost purchasing power in those years. I asked you if you understand that the inflation you calculated for 2021 is a good inflation, since the INE (National Institute of Statistics) provides for inflation increases and, therefore, we are at risk of having public servants and pensioners losing purchasing power. None of these questions have been answered by the Government and they are all about the budget which you have put forward, on the measures you have chosen, on the priorities you have taken. But there are a lot of other questions I would like to ask you. This has to do with the proposals that the Bloc has elected, that the Bloc has brought the negotiation, that the Bloc has submitted to the Government and that the Minister and the Government have decided not to include in the budget proposal. On the sustainability factor, we have proven that it is unfair, we have shown that it respects the logic of Vieira da Silva, we demonstrate that it is for a limited group of people and the government only achieved a refusal and an answer, which has to do with something else. Instead of revoking the sustainability factor for early retirement, and after having proved that it is for a limited number of people and that it has a limited cost, the government responds that it will revoke the sustainability factor for workers with more than 80 % disability, more than 60 years of age and 15 years of career — someone who had already over 80 % disability — and even these people will maintain a cut of 39 %. The Government does not respond to the Block's proposal on the sustainability factor for early pensions and does not respond to people with disabilities, who need to retire, who have that right and who cannot because the Government maintains these unjust laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u22	We have asked for extraordinary hours, we have shown that this cut is unfair, we have shown that it is important to increase the average wage, we have shown that it is a republican conquest, we have shown that the PS has already supported it in the past and that it has already entered it into its labor codes, in the past. The government does not respond and what it proposes is to keep a court in 130 of the extraordinary 150 hours allowed by law. We talked about redundancies, we showed how important they are, we showed how they solve the problem of workers, now that they are being fired at Altice or Santander. And what the government answers is not about redundancies. The Government has not responded to the proposal for the approach of the Left Block, in which what it proposes—is the Socialist Party's proposal—it is 20 days of redundancy compensation. The Government responds on long-term contracts, a measure which the Left Block did not put on the table and which has a limited impact. We talked about the exclusivity of doctors. We have argued that the contests are empty and that is why, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, that there are no doctors. [[There's no, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u23	It's because the contests are empty and because the public can't compete with the private to retain these doctors. We proved that the State spends 500 million on private conventions per year, we showed that the State spends 130 million on jobs per year, we showed that the State spends 330 million on extraordinary hours per year and that all this would be avoidable if there was a regime of exclusivity, where doctors were paid and compensated to stay exclusively in the SNS, to end promiscuity with the private sector. And all the government presents us as an answer is to pay more doctors to spend more hours in the public, but to continue to accumulate with the private. Therefore, Mr Minister, in addition to all the questions I put to you at the outset, which relate to the Budget which the Minister decided to present to the Assembly of the Republic, what I would like to answer, one by one, on the nine proposals which the Block put for the feasibility of this Budget... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ... and to tell me, one by one, why do you not accept them, why do you think they are not enforceable, why do you think they are not important to the country. That is the answer I would like you to give me. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u24	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, as you will certainly recall during the discussion of the State budget for 2021, The Greens presented two proposals concerning offshore entities, which were approved by this House. The first relates to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, with two objectives: on the one hand, preventing an offshore owner from benefiting indirectly from the suspension of IMI tax (municipal property tax), by creating a vehicle entity in national territory and, on the other hand, extending the increased tax rate applicable to the buildings of a vehicle entity created by an entity with tax domicile in an offshore. The second proposal relating to the Code of the Municipal Tax on Onerous Transmissions of Real Estate, which extended the increased tax rate applicable to buildings of a vehicle entity created by entities with tax households in offshore. We are talking about proposals with great importance, but they also aim to seek to moralize tax policy, until, if our country does not serve these companies here to establish their tax office, these companies too should not be used to receive « tax returns » from the State. Moreover, we are all tired of knowing that the entities that use these mechanisms do so in order not to pay taxes or hide the origin of that money and, in many cases, even with these two objectives. It is not, by any chance, that the use of tax havens represents one of the most common forms of international tax evasion, with the estimated concentration of 26% of world wealth in these tax havens. Moreover, the existence of tax havens is absolutely inseparable from the worsening social inequalities, poverty and unsustainable economic model that is being installed in the world. In fact, tax havens substantially weaken the state's financial bases and do not create wealth for the country, even questioning its revenues and resources that could otherwise be channeled to public investment in absolutely priority areas, such as public services and social policies. That is why these measures are important, but it would also be important for the Government to commit itself to putting an end to this immorality, which continues to allow a few to live in tax havens for the general population to live in a real fiscal hell. Meanwhile, Minister, we would like to know whether we already have data that enable us to understand how much the State has taken up during this year with these two measures which, on a proposal from the Greens, are contained in the State Budget of 2021. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u26	You have the floor to request clarification from the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, through Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Finance, for more fiscal justice, the CFP has defended measures to relieve labour taxes and on lower and intermediate incomes, but we also propose measures to increase revenue, measures such as compulsory inclusion, the end of tax benefits for large companies, the reversal of public-private partnerships or the taxation of profits made in Portugal. Rejecting these solutions, in addition to contradicting the discourse of the right accounts, maintains situations of fiscal injustice and privileges for the great capital. In 2020, there were EUR 1 billion of tax benefits in IRC, especially for large companies. In the Supplementary Budget for 2020, the Government has created another tax credit to give billing to large companies. Only EDP received 77 million in benefits, Galp 29 million and, for 2021, we must join EDP's flight to pay taxes on the sale of Miranda's dams.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u29	And now, to these EUR 1000 million of tax benefits in IRC, the government wants to give more than 150 million, with fiscal incentive for recovery. How does the Government justify the recovery of the Supplementary's tax credit, which counted on the vote against the CFP, while denying the country's replies? Of course, it is difficult to have certain accounts with the pensioners, with the workers, with the young people, if there are EUR 1400 million for public-private partnerships every year, without anything being done to reverse them. The Government continues to refuse the solutions of the CFP, which guarantee the taxation in Portugal of the profits made in the country, those profits that run away for the Netherlands, for the offshore, for lack of willingness to face the great interests. The Government continues to refuse the inclusion proposed by the CFP, presenting a measure with such limited scope that it is almost non-existent. Minister, we are not content with the government's refusal. We even want these measures to move forward, we want the State to have more revenue, but with more fiscal justice, so that it can have the resources needed for the responses that the country needs in the SNS and in the public services, in support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and social protection. Tell us, Minister: what are the commitments that the Government is willing to make? [[PCP and PEV MP Mariana Silva applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u30	It's the time of the NAP. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, one of the major concerns of the NAP is undoubtedly the fight against corruption and in this Budget, once again the values applied to the CIAP ( Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ), the increases in the number of human resources and computer resources of the Judicial Police, purely and simply do not arrive. We defend that in order to combat a crime that steals from Portugal billions of euros every year it is necessary to invest seriously in this area. Minister, why don't you invest in this fight anymore? Is this an unsavory way of not even wanting to fight corruption? Mr Minister, Germany had to review its economic growth and reduced it by 2, 1 percentage point, compared with the initially expected inflation, which is expected to reach 4, 2 % in the euro area in March. Mr Minister, why didn't the government make a more realistic forecast, rather than the perfect scenario, something that would hardly happen? Are you going to review that scenario? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u32	To conclude this first block of requests for clarification, Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u33	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, this debate is about the Budget, in general. Furthermore, it is not surprising that the parties that announce that they will vote against the budget in general continue to test a debate with the Government on the speciality of the budget. It has indeed been a very interesting exercise to observe. But Mr Minister, knowing that this is an eminently political debate and that the vote on the Budget is political, he tried to give a political speech, insofar as he was able to make it. What is at stake is, indeed, that. So, what is to be asked to the government is the following: if the government is not the first interested in elections, then what is it interested in? Because this government is only and only formed as such, not following the last legislative elections but the previous elections, because, as Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday, he broke with what was the concept of government formation in Portugal and achieved two things at the same time: the first was to rule without winning elections, which was unpublished; the second was to rule with a left-wing coalition, which sold to the country as the great solution for the future of Portugal. And what can we say after six years? First, that the results are pauperarim — from the point of view of economic growth, from the point of view of the average wage, from the point of view of competitiveness, from the point of view of productivity. Therefore, this supposed solution of the future has not served the country. If you served someone, it was Antonio Costa and the Socialist Party. The question to ask now is why it is no longer useful. What is it, in fact, here in question? And these are not the measures of this budget... there is one thing in which I do justice to the Minister: this is the leftmost budget that you have submitted. Therefore, it is appropriate to ask why the Prime Minister, who has achieved this extraordinary thing for the first time to have a Government from all the left in Portugal, when he makes the Budget more to the left, cannot approve it. That's the question you have to ask yourself! If, this time, you made the Budget more to the left than ever, if it is so clever that you have achieved a coalition that no one has ever achieved, why can't you this time? Maybe, because you don't want to, Prime Minister. Maybe, because he doesn't want to! It is, therefore, time to discuss whether or not we are faced with an act of a Socialist Party which, this time, probably deceives the parties on the left, in the same way that it deceived the other six budgets. That's not news. Everyone knows that what the Socialist Party put in the Budgets to have the votes of the Left Block and the PCP was not to be done, but it is also known that the Left Block and the PCP did not care about it during these six years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u34	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u35	... until they have an actual election and have to worry about the result. And with the Socialist Party the same thing. So, what we are discussing here is not the State budget, it is the hangover of the local elections. If you want to try a victimization speech because you think it has electoral benefit, the same people who, for the first time, have ruled with opportunism, without having won elections will also have to respond to the political opportunism of now wanting to send the government down because you think you can rule with an absolute majority, out of electoral time, harming the country, putting the country in a political crisis at the end of a pandemic, from which we have not yet left, placing the country in a political crisis at a decisive time for the application of the PRR, at a decisive time in order to effectively achieve positions. So, Minister, the answer you have to give is political. If, indeed, you want to approve the Budget... are you incompetent now? Can't you get what you got the other time? Or is it true that they are the main interested in elections and do they really want the political crisis? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u36	Let's move on to the answers to the requests for clarification. Mr. Minister for Finance, John Leon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. First of all, Mr Duarte Pacheco is asking about the negotiations over the last few weeks. The Government, in the spirit of commitment and responsibility, has negotiated with the parties that enable the State budget in relation to what it considers to be positive measures for the country, aligned with priorities, and are not lists of commodities. Free day care for all is not a merchandise list;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u38	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u39	... extraordinary increase of pensions from 10 € up to 1100 € is not a mercenary list, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He says we already knew this would be like this. Mr President, it was six years in which we were able to ensure stability, growth and improvement of life for the Portuguese. It's been six years, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD also speaks of the Reform Budget, which would never be expected because this government can always avoid Reform Budgets. But why, a year ago, did you pre-announce that? Why did they still announce the financial disqualification in January this year, which did not happen? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u40	If they realized what they announced, they could need the corrective budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u41	Even in January this year, they announced a corrective budget. With regard to the energy crisis, I wanted to highlight two important aspects. On the one hand, we have taken very significant measures, a package in the area of electricity of around EUR 800 million, which ensures that Portugal is of the few countries in Europe where people know that next January the price of electricity will decrease and not increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to fuels, Portugal was the first country to take measures to reduce fuel taxes and has a very significant package for the freight transport sector and for the public transport sector to help families cope with this phase. It is the first country in Europe to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issues raised by Mr Filipe Neto Brandão of the PS, I would like to point out that we are in fact at a critical stage for the country and that it is very important that we have an approved budget to help strengthen this economic growth. To that end, there are a number of very important measures that may be called into question if this budget is not approved. I am talking about, for example, the reform of the IRS and the measures to help families and young people; I am talking about a number of other measures that will be involved if this budget is not approved. I would also like to point out that, even for the implementation of the RPP, it is essential to have an approved budget, which gives the Government better conditions to implement it. Mr Mariana Mortágua, Member of the Left Block, with regard to the « dialogue on the left », I would like to say that the initial proposal for Budget that we presented, even before the following improvements were made, contained a set of measures which the Left Block has signalled to us to value. Does the Left Block not value wages? The state budget proposal for this year shows an improvement in wages: an increase in national minimum wage by €40; a first update of 0, 9 % in public service wages, which means that the average wage increases by 2, 5 %. I would also like to draw your attention to the following: in the last State budget approved by the Left Block in 2019 the increase in the national minimum wage was €20 ; now, we are proposing not €20, but €40,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u42	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u43	...the greatest increase in history in relation to the national minimum wage! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] The last State budget approved by the Left Block did not provide for an update of salaries for the public service; this budget proposal provides for an update of 0,9 % wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u44	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u45	With regard to the issues raised by the Left Bloc on the exercise in public accounts, I would like to say to you, Mrs Deputies, that we have often explained these questions. Budgets in public accounts are appropriations, they are legal limits. We have shown that both in the central administration and in the regional administration, in the authorities and even in the sites that the Block identified, which was only in a municipal chamber, this also occurred. All over the place, what you referred to is verified. Those who are aware of the budgetary implementation in public accounts know that this is the case. Regarding the issue of health, we transferred the funds to the National Health Service. EUR 150 million was transferred for investment in primary health care, money was transferred to the different hospitals. The implementation of the investment is something that takes time and the processes have been initiated and are currently being implemented. In addition to the questions you raised about the Labour Code, Mrs Deputy, I would like to say that, within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda, we are available to dialogue with the Left Block. As you know, the issues of the Labour Code are not part of this budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u46	What about the minimum wage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u47	... but we are available to discuss with the Bloc issues relating to the labour market in the field. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr José Luís Ferreira, on the questions he raised about offshores, wanted to say that we, together with the ENP, approved these rules for combating tax evasion and tax planning, are now in application and that in the next year, in part concerning IMI and IMT (municipal tax on property-free transmissions ), we will know the additional revenue obtained with this penalty for having offshore properties and we will also have information on the implementation of those rules. As regards the question put by Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP on the tax incentive for recovery, I would like to point out that, on the one hand, it is an incentive for the recovery of investment, which is fundamental to our economy, and on the other, it is conditional on maintaining employment for three years and prohibiting the distribution of dividends by companies. I also draw your attention to the fact that the structure of this investment incentive benefits SMEs in particular, because it has limits on which to deduct. Therefore, it is a particularly targeted investment for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question put by Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP on the Judicial Police, I must say that we have been strengthening it with human resources and investment and we will always be available to continue this strengthening bet in the Judicial Police together with the NAP. As for the issue on inflation, I would like to point out to you that our estimate at the moment is the same as the estimate by the European Commission and the most recent estimate by the Banco de Portugal. at present, the inflation rate to September is still below the government's rate for the year as a whole. Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP refers in particular to weak economic growth. I wanted to tell you that the average economic growth in Portugal in the last four years to the pandemic was higher than the euro area average. We grew up 2, 7 %, on average, more than 1 percentage point than the euro zone, while during its government we split and fell brutally in front of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, the salaries increased by 15 % compared to 2015 ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u48	What about other countries? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u49	... the income available — which in real terms fell, 8 % — during our period has already increased by 12 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u51	Therefore, it is a very big difference from what happened during your government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u52	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the second series of seven requests for clarification. To this end, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u53	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, I know, we know, that you like statistics very much, you like graphics very much, and so I will confront you with some statistical data and some graphics, joining them with those presented by you. Mr. José Luís Carneiro and Mr. Carlos Pereira and, of course, also attaching them to the statistical charts and data which Mr. Minister for Finance will show us later in his answers. The speaker began to display several graphs. Mr. Minister tells us a lot of economic growth and convergence with the European Union, but Mr. Minister, what the statistical data tell us is that GDP per capita in Portugal, in purchasing power parities, does not fall in relation to the Member States. [[PSD applause.]] We have been, Mr Minister, including Malta, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Lithuania. We are therefore poorest in comparative terms. Mr. Minister also told us a lot about digital transition and energy transition to increase productivity, but Mr. Minister, what the statistical data tell us is that time productivity in Portugal, as a percentage of the European Union, in 2020 is lower than we had in 2015. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister returns this year to tell us - an economic recovery based on public investment as one of the main strategic axes of the State budget for 2022, but Mr Minister, what the statistical data tell us is that in the last six years - in the last six years, without exception - Portugal has been the country that has had the least public investment among the 27 Member States. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u54	It's this red line you see here. This red line, Minister! [[PSD applause.]] The Minister tells us about tax relief, but what the statistical data tell us is that the government has never taxed so much, the Portuguese have never paid so much in taxes. In 2022, compared with 2015, the government will charge Portuguese, in round numbers, plus 9 billion euros, plus 9 billion euros! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister, what have the Portuguese received in exchange for the surrender to the State of successive higher tax revenues of all time? Mr Minister, you have always received public services at least the minimum! Mr. Minister tells us a lot about the reduction of public debt interest, mainly due to the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, but never tells us about gross public debt, absolute, and this, Minister, rose 35 billion euros between 2015 and 2020, which will be much higher in 2021 and will be much higher in 2022. Mr Minister, we owe more EUR 35 billion, but the promised hospitals are about to be built; the health centres have not been built either; the posts of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the PSP ( Public Security Police) teams promised have not been built either; the trains have not been acquired, etc. etc. etc. [[PSD applause.]] Minister, do you really think we're on the right track? And if you think we're on the right track, then explain to the Portuguese because we're always on the wrong side of European statistics and rankings. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u55	Mr Alexandra Tavares Moura of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u56	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, allow me to share with you a memory exercise. In 2014, in the Public Administration, there were frozen orders, there were no progressions or wage increases and there was an increase of five hours of work per week, with the same salary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The deficit, the lack of productivity and all the horrors of the public accounts had one fault: the employees of the Public Administration. In the years that preceded this political cycle that we now live, we witness the impoverishment and destruction of public services. The intention of the PSD/CDS Government was always only one: to divide society. On the other hand, the private, on the other hand, the public. They have forgotten that the private responds to the public when the investment is necessary; they have forgotten that the public responds to the private and responds to everyone when the crisis begins. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's what happened in these last months of pandemic. Public services have responded, with professionalism, at the most difficult time that we live in this century. In 2015, António Costa formed Government with a majority left-wing parliament. A new period of hope and respect began, respect for teachers, doctors, nurses, pharmacists, inspectors, specialists, senior technicians, technical assistants and operational assistants. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u57	In 2019 we strengthened our commitment to the Public Administration and to all its workers. in these six years we have seen at the end of wage cuts, after 10 years without updates, to the defrosting of careers, 100 000 workers covered by the increase of guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have seen that at least 500 000 public servants have had a wage valuation. We saw the elimination of restrictions on contracting, response in public services, with the hiring of 72,693 public servants, which were so lacking. Today, we are discussing the proposal for an increase of EUR 80 million from the wage mass to 2022, a wage increase at the level of admission, in the career of superior technician, agileization of the hiring of workers and the structural change of service in public services. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, with this budget, we guarantee that there will be no cuts, no freezings or special rules that make everyone run for reform. Today, with this Budget, we guarantee that public services will continue to respond to businesses and people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, with this budget, we guarantee that the public service workers will be respected, because that is what it is about: the dignity and the guarantee that what we have acquired will come out, with this budget, even more reinforced. That is why, Minister, it is about dignity and the guarantees that this budget gives us that question. Confirm, if you please, this House and all public officials that this Budget values them, respects them and will allow the road started six years ago not to go back. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u58	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera, to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u59	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the government, young people are not a rhetorical artifact, nor a verb to fill. Young people need and the country needs a comprehensive response to problems and that is what the CFP has tried to get the government to understand. Young people need to be trained and have access to higher education. The country needs more qualified people, more science and technology, so it needs to end barriers such as tips, scholarships that do not pay for expenses, or the lack of residences, as the CFP proposes. The government's refusal to move forward means committed futures and delay to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u61	Young people who want to leave home and be self-employed need to find housing with incomes that are comportable to their incomes and need a lease law that provides security, as proposed by the PCP. To refuse this is to eternalize dependence and prevent young people from starting their lives. Young people who want to build a family, besides their home, need to know that they have stability in their jobs, have to live without the precariousness of not knowing what the next month will be, nor can they be pawns of the temporary work company or live on green receipts. Young people need to know that they will not be released « with one hand ahead and one hand behind», which will not always be jumping from place to place. They need the government to repeal the rules that are used to explore, as proposed by the CFP. Rejecting as important measures as these is delaying the lives of young people and the generational replacement that the government is talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u63	Young people who need to start their life project need home, need jobs with rights, need stability and need decent wages. Do not increase wages by increasing the minimum wage, careers or collective bargaining, it is to condemn the present and future of thousands of young people and condemn the country itself. Young generations need something as basic as a house, know tomorrow and have a wage that they give to live. They need hours that are compatible with personal life and they need to know that there is a network of free and public daycare facilities to put their children, if they want to have them. They need to know that nothing will be missing from their children in order to advance a family project. This means a global response to the problems of young people and the country. They are such basic rights and continue to be lacking in the options of the Government. Minister, young people do not need drama, they do not need blackmail and much less the intransigence of the government, which is the only one who can give these answers, enough to want. Young people need concrete commitments and measures and the government has every means to do so. Just don't do it if you don't want it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u64	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, I know that asking for clarifications at this time of the debate is a bit like trying to buy a ticket for a show that has already come out of the scene, but even so I have, well told, half a dozen doubts about this budget, about contradictions or, as it is now said, more sympatheticly, cognitive dissonances, which I would like to see clarified, for the sake of future memory. First of all, if this is such a fiscal relief budget for families, how does the government explain that it expects on page 81 of the Budget Report to charge in IRS more EUR 1600 million than it did in 2019? Secondly, if the private economy is going to be so high, in its own words, during the year 2022, why is almost all the job expected to be generated during that year is public? This will cause Portugal to beat once again the record of civil servants in office. Thirdly, if the Government has or has such a clear strategy, why does the multi-annual framework for public expenditure, which is part of the Great Plan Options and should have been voted before this Budget, change every year? This year, we heard from the Council of Public Finance, which changed over the nest of EUR 26 600 million. Fourthly, the right accounts are being held up, how can it be thought that allowing primary expenditure to go beyond 3, 4 percentage points in GDP will not introduce an ingesible rigidity for future budgets and generations? Fifthly, if you like to attack the period of financial assistance and the damage you caused, why did you not thank a real lottery this time in 2021? It received EUR 1114 million of reimbursement from the European Financial Stabilization Fund, which was then kept by the government in office. Finally, so that the Portuguese won't be fooled, who's going to pay what's said to be the background funds of the PRR today? Is it or is it not true that Europe has been indebted to finance this plan? Is it or is it not true that who will end up paying this subsidy is the European citizens, among them the Portuguese? I would appreciate concrete answers to these six questions, for future memory and for the good of all the Portuguese people who are accompanying the debate, so that they will not be deceived and become aware that the only thing in which the PS is truly good is propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u66	Mr Alberto Fonseca, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, Mr. Members of the Government, this is a soulless budget, without strategy, without direction, without a vision for the country, as in fact were all six previous budgets, but this time neither the travel comrades already believe. This is a Budget focused on distributing wealth, which it has and which it does not have, without worrying about its creation. In the more than EUR 100 billion of the budget, outside the PRR — we are going — the government devotes some EUR 150 million to support businesses and investment. When we face the biggest crisis in our lives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u68	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u69	...at a time when companies needed more support measures to cope with and recover from this crisis, the government dedicates 0, 15 % of the Budget to support companies. [[It's true! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u70	Portugal was already one of the least supportive countries in 2020. It was also in 2021 and so will it be in 2022, at the will of the Government. Already in the PRR, the government had put companies in the background, unlike the rest of Europe, devoting the overwhelming majority of the programme to achieving what it promised and did not over the past six years. But it's not weird. The government looks at entrepreneurs as mere tax payers. [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u71	It is not strange, but it is regrettable about its consequences. Year after year, we are outnumbered by other countries and are increasingly in the line of Europe. If, today, we have a political crisis, which Mr. Prime Minister has classified as « completely irrational», it is because the left has not been able to understand. Next time the Portuguese are called to pronounce themselves, they should remember that. Mr. Prime Minister, who, six years ago, because of the anxiety of power, took hostage to the extreme left, is the only one responsible for this situation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u72	Mr. Minister of Finance, if it is true that the government fills its speeches with the IRS package and tax relief, it is good to say that the government will only return less than half of what it will charge us most. According to government data, IRS revenues rise from 14, 4 to 14, 7 billion euros, including the IRS package. The same is true in IRC. Furthermore, all taxes will increase, IRS, IRC, ISP, VAT, ISV (vehicle tax ), stamp tax, IUC (unique circulation tax ), all! It is more than EUR 2 billion that the Portuguese will pay, compared to last year's forecast. in this, the socialist governments are good, charging and raising taxes; to support the economy is that not so much. Mr. Minister of Finance, in 2015, the government said it would turn the page of austerity, but the fact is that since 2015, year after year, the government charges us more and more taxes. For 2022, the Government plans to charge more EUR 9 billion compared to 2015. Remember that we were going to turn the page of austerity? It is more than EUR 9 billion, more than 20 % of what we earned, a reality they had promised to stay behind. Actually, it was a lot more behind. We stayed much higher than we were at the time. Is this the solution that the Government has to offer to the country, Minister? Suffocating Portuguese families and companies with more and more taxes and letting the economy deliver to their lot? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u73	To request clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, in the NAP dialogue with the Government, have strongly insisted on the idea that animal protection policies are also social protection policies. Let us remind ourselves, for example, of the increasingly important role of pet animals in people's lives, not only as a form of emotional support, but also as a means of combating the loneliness of many people, in particular older people, for whom we obviously need a strategy, and we have recently adopted a proposal for the NAP in this House. In this House too, on a proposal from the NAP, we have adopted a recommendation to the Government, also approved by the Socialist Party, that the Government, within the framework of the European Union's VAT Directive, should be able to apply the reduced rate to veterinary medical acts by the Member States. This will, of course, be a very important step towards recognizing animal health policies, but also of equality for health professionals. However, this will not be enough, Minister. It is increasingly the families that integrate pets, our society today has another conscience regarding how we relate to them and another awareness of our responsibilities in relation to them and, for this, it is necessary to positively strengthen tax policies for people and families who integrate pets, for example, in the exemption of fees in the fees at the fees for the animals adopted, or in an additional increase in expenditure on medical and veterinary acts within IRS. This has been a demand for the NAP, including an increase of €100 that could take shape here and positively reinforce the expenses of the people who actively look after pets and try to provide them with proper care. And when we talk about people and families, we can't forget about animal protection associations. This has been a claim which we have brought to the debates in the State budget and we are again insisting on the government in this regard, because, indeed, animal protection policies are social protection policies. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u75	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u76	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, we all liked her historical review. But there is another historical review to be made and I will also remind you that it is not just a part of the story to be remembered here. October 2010 : Budget announces zero increase and non-renewal of wages. November 2011 : The Budget presented by the Minister of Finance in Parliament announces the freezing of careers of all public service. No, it wasn't the troika; no, it wasn't the PSD; no, it wasn't the CDS — stop! — It was the Budget of your Party, of your Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] Come here today to this debate say that this government has come to save the country from the troika when its party and its government have put us in the troika is, if not hypocrisy, a great lack of historical memory in Portugal. And since you don't have it, I wanted to remind you. Mr Minister, the answer you gave to the NAP is an example of what this Budget is. Asked about the lack of means to combat corruption, Mr Nelson Silva replied: « Yes, we are always available to strengthen ». It's not available, it's budgeting! That's what we want. The availability of the government has been there for many years and we have seen what it has done. He has given promised and unbuilt hospitals, promised and unbuilt schools, promised and unbuilt railway lines, schools with asbestos, which are still waiting for it to be removed. This is what gave us the socialist availability. But, Minister, is it not true that what you're giving in the IRS to the Portuguese is going to get the fuel? Yesterday, highways announced that they would spend more EUR 50 million — EUR 50 million! — in fuel. It is clear that the cost of living and prices will increase. The government has made a fiscal juggling with this Budget. He took it from the IRS, to give the idea that he was giving something, and he's going to get it to the fuel taxes. But there is a data on which Mr Minister should respond to the country and today is the day to do so. Is it true that 61 % of the State's revenue is indirect tax? Today is the day to tell the Portuguese that the big part of your recipe has come from charging taxes to the Portuguese. Tell us whether it is true or not, and it can be a 'yes' or 'no' — that 61 % of the State's revenue is taxed indirectly. But Mr Minister, he said that this was the Budget of the Right Accounts, taking into account the idea of his Prime Minister that this is a Budget of the Right Accounts and, therefore, he cannot give in. Well, the Order of the Economists has looked at this budget and said that the worst indicators are precisely — and I quote, not to be at risk of being deceived — « the budget balance, the efficiency of the Public Administration and the competitiveness ». This was not said by the Arrival, it was said by the Order of the Economists. How is the Budget of the Right Accounts the worst in efficiency of the Public Administration and the worst in budget balance? It is something on which people must at least question, rather than all of us entering the narrative of the 'common government', which wanted a budget that no one had allowed it and which, therefore, must now be submitted to the elections. Is that true or not? The Minister said he wanted to support the sectors most affected by this pandemic. How can a budget be presented with the complications of VATucher to the right and VATucher to the left, which I bet the Minister did not understand well if the Minister did not understand, imagine the rest of the country! — when he had such a simple and fair measure at his hand as to bring down the VAT of the restaurant for all food and drink, is this the sector most affected by this pandemic?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u77	When it was PSD it was against!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u78	In fact, two places you, Minister of Finance, two places you are the man who leads us today and who said seven years ago that the restoration was part of our heroes and promised to lower the VAT of restoration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u79	He's coming down!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u80	He's coming down, he's coming down. Now today, Prime Minister, it was time to return to the VAT of restoration... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u81	... for a minimum rate in food and drink, because it is a measure of perfect justice for a sector so affected by the pandemic. But now, Mr Minister for Finance, I think it is also time to explain to us how it can be said that this budget will support the recovery if, according to all the indicators we have and all the studies that have been made, it is probably the budget of the European Union that is less supportive of the losses that companies have suffered during the pandemic. Mr Prime Minister — who once again stands by his side and said he wanted to bring Portugal closer to Germany, which probably only caught up in the country and put it there — said that the Budget can cover 15 % of the losses, when Germany covers 80 % of the losses of companies. Mr. Prime Minister, if this is how you want to approach the country of Germany, I tell you one thing: it is better to keep where we are because we are still better, and then it is better for your government to be presented to the Portuguese, that I am sure that this is not the right way and that there is another way that can be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u82	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of State and Finance, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin with Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, who raised a number of questions and one on economic growth. Economic stagnation is a myth on the right. The right was stopped at the time when he ruled and in fact there was economic stagnation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal has grown in the last four years by 2019, 11, 3 % ; Europe — it is the euro area — grew 7, 8 % in that period. We were from the Western European countries that grew the most during that period. And back in history, as the PSD likes to do, in the last 25 years, in the PS governments we grow, on average, always above Europe. In the PSD governments, on the contrary, Europe grew on average more than 1 % and in Portugal on the average GDP was reduced. These are data that I can easily make available, Mr. With regard to the tax issue, I will only give the example of the tax figures you have mentioned and which contradict everything you have mentioned. During PSD time, for example, between 2012 and 2015, the weight of GDP taxes increased from 22, 8 % to 25, 4 %. During our government, between 2015 and 2020 — for closed years — the tax burden fell from 25, 4 % to 24, 6 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the same time, in Europe the weight of taxes did not decrease and in Portugal fell from 25, 4 % to 24, 6 %, almost 1 percentage point of GDP. In Europe, at that time the weight of taxes was higher, increased from 26, 7 % to 26, 9 %. While in Europe the weight of taxes has increased, in Portugal we have dropped the weight of taxes, contrary to what happened in your government. These are facts, sir! Another issue he referred to was the issue of public debt. Public debt is always measured as a percentage of GDP, Mr. In its Government public debt increased 31 % of GDP, with austerity. It has increased 31% of GDP! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Between 2015 and 2019 it did not increase as a percentage of GDP, it decreased 13 %, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u84	You've got the biggest debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u85	Portugal is praised, in fact, as the second country in Europe that most reduced public debt between 2015 and 2019 and that was what led to improvements in rating and reduction of interest paid by the Republic. Mrs. PS Member Alexandra Tavares de Moura, in relation to public service, is quite right. In order to provide better public services to the country, it is necessary to value its professionals. Therefore, for the fifth consecutive year, and for the first time in the last decades, we have the public careers totally frozen. Public officials can look at their careers and feel that they are careers that are being fulfilled and respected. We reintroduce the principle of annual wage updates, which is also important to value the salaries of civil servants, and we expect, with this package, that the average salary of employees will increase by the next year 2, 5 %, compared to this year. Mrs Alma Rivera, from the CFP, on the issue of young people, we agree that this is a very important challenge. That is why there are conditions for young people to have a future in their country. We were able to reach the most qualified young generation ever. 15 years ago we were on the tail of Europe as the least qualified, today, in the percentage that reaches higher education and 12. this year we are already above the values of Europe. We have very important programmes for young people, such as massive investments in housing with affordable income; the ambitious programme of free daycare, which will benefit young people; a programme of the IRS Youth, which will also benefit young people; the Dignified Work Agenda, which is also important for young people, and the increase in wages, so important for young people. [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] Regarding the questions put by Mr. Deputies of the Liberal Initiative, Cotrim de Figueiredo, Member, tells me that the value of the IRS for the year will increase, but the revenue of IRS increases with the economy. Only if we were really bad is that we would be of the few countries in the world where revenues did not evolve, because the economy would not be growing. With regard to the PRR, it seems to me that the honourable Member is against the PRR. Do you not want us to apply the PRR because it will demand the European Union's own resources? Is it against the PRR? We have here the only Member who is against the PRR, in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u86	It's not the only one, there's more...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u87	With regard to the questions put by Mr Alberto Fonseca, from the PSD, the PRR has a very important package for companies, but even the part that is made for the execution of state spending on investments is important investments that will benefit the competitiveness of businesses and people. I give the example of the 14th National Road, which you know so well. Who will benefit from the 14th National Road, which is an essential investment? Is it the state or are it the families? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the change in IRS revenue—which says it will increase next year— it will increase with the increase in income of workers and families. Although we are reducing the IRS, only in its government, at the time of the PSD, were gross increases in taxes and then the revenue did not respond because it hit the economy that would reduce government revenues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u88	That's a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u89	With regard to the questions put by Mrs Bébiana Cunha, Member of the PAN, I would like to point out to her that we agree to make commitments to the PAN in an important strategy with regard to pets. And we have already agreed with the NAP on important measures such as the exemption from rates for adoption of pets and the increase, within IRS, of expenditure on pets. I would also like to point out, Mr Ventura, that, as you know, when I was in the PSD, it was your party that increased the VAT of the restoration from 13 % to 23 % — at that time was your party and it was at that time that it was increased. And it wasn't at the time! Now, in our Government, we are lowering the VAT of restoration from 23 % to 13 %, Mr. On the issue that has raised me about economic growth I have already answered, in answer to the other questions, and on indirect taxes the question that is not true, does not correspond to the facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u90	Isn't that 60%? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u91	It's not 60 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u92	We shall now turn to the speeches of the various parliamentary groups. I call on Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u93	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday a sentence, already repeated by both the Socialist Party and other members of the Government, in which he asked why he did not separate the State budget from other matters under discussion. Let me give a detailed answer, because I believe that the question deserves that answer, and in order for us to get to that content we have to separate the method from what is inherent in the proposed State budget law. Let's start then in 2015. In 2015, there was a negotiation that lasted weeks, almost two months, between the government and the parties on the left. from this negotiation came written documents that compromised the government and parliamentary groups of the parties to the left of the Socialist Party with measures to be implemented over several years, and, in the particular case of the Left Block, to ensure that we would continue to work together and to resolve the differences that we had on the table, with the creation of working groups, which continued during several legislative sessions, on fundamental issues, namely: work, pensions, public debt, finance. From that process, it resulted in a permanent dialogue. And I am not exaggerating when I say that we had weekly meetings at all these legislative sessions to evaluate the proposals of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the proposals of other parliamentary groups, the Government's bills, the will of each party in each of the debates that were on the table. But in 2019 everything changed. The Government no longer wished to have a written agreement that would identify a course for the country and preferred a point-to-point negotiation. Weekly meetings have ceased to exist and the dialogue with the left has only been summarized in the budget debate. So it is even strange that the Prime Minister is the first to ask: why do they not separate the State's budget from other matters? This was when it was exactly Mr. Prime Minister who said on the left that the only thing he wanted to talk to her was the State Budget and in the budgetary period, because, throughout the rest of the year—and, I repeat, throughout the rest of the year—there was nothing else he wanted to talk about. And as you have seen, and as you see, in this Parliament, the PS voted so many times, but so many times, more to the right than the left parties. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] More: many times—in cynical terms, we know—the right, and the PSD in particular, abstained from the proposals of the Left Block and who lead them with a vote against it was the Socialist Party. We have seen this in matters as fundamental as the law of work, where even, curiously, those who understood the PSD were the PS to introduce harmful measures of workers' rights, but we have also seen this in something that is structural in the way a government relates to Parliament. If it was said in 2015 that Parliament had a centrality so that it assured Prime Minister Antonio Costa that it had a government, what the PS then joined the PSD to remove centrality from the parliamentary debate and end up — imagine! — the 15-year debates in Parliament. It's no smaller thing. They're postures, they're ways of being with this new reality after-2019. And, allow me to think, are ways of being wrong, with the election results of 2019 which, contrary to the will of the Socialist Party, did not give it an absolute majority. But let's also go to the content, because the content is much more important than the process. The management, created in 2015, was not made with blackmail, nor with fear. Management wasn't the daughter of any ultimatum. It started against the European will, which threatened the country. I think you will remember that you threatened the country in 2016 because you did not accept the income replacement policy at that time. And it is curious because, at that time, Mr Prime Minister did not let himself be frightened, nor was he even afraid of how his reputation would remain in the European courts. at that time, the Prime Minister, the Government and the left parties faced Europe to return incomes, labour incomes. But now everything seems different. In 2019, what was negotiation began to have a lot of taxation and the lack of dialogue that began to reign on the left was not only with the Left Block, it was not only a parliamentary logic, it seemed also turned into a lack of dialogue with the country. So let us look at the content of this State budget. Only this lack of dialogue with the country is that, for example, it justifies that a matter as central today as the energy and fuel crisis has no response in the State budget. The Government, which did not dialogue on the left, did not also dialogue with the country. That is why it is strange that, when the State Budget for 2022 is voted on today, the Government is afraid to signal to the country a political crisis on the basis of rejecting proposals to the left on pensions, work and health—it is incomprehensible! No one understands that the government says, in the middle of the millions who have been announcing the country for employers, companies, various sectors, that it does not want to invest in the SNS to ensure careers of its professionals, the same ones who resign themselves in retrospect. Only a government that does not dialogue with the country does not realize this reality. And being the SNS so important to people, it is not clear that there is no response in this State budget about the fixing of these professionals, a response that ensures that professionals do not run away again to the private, an answer that does not weaken the SNS. So when the government tells us "we even respond to your proposals" and we go to the concrete, to the written measures, because that is where the will is evaluated, we realize that the full dedication regime, after all, has nothing to do with exclusive dedication, and it is not good for doctors to stay in the public, it is for them to spend more hours in the public while they can accumulate a second and a third job in private. It is not an appreciation of careers, it is not a fight against promiscuity between public and private. It is only an additional payment of extraordinary hours. Therefore, the government fails the SNS, it fails the country. No one understands that the government wants a political crisis because it rejects ending with the same sustainability factor that in 2019 the then Minister Vieira da Silva said it was unacceptable. And more: no one understands that the government rejects responding to those and those pensioners who have every month in their pension the cut that the right has placed on them and that it takes them not only the value that should be used to pay them medicines for their daily lives, but in part their dignity, because they know that they were pushed into reform because they had no work, because the economy was on track, because the right had destroyed the economy, and destroyed them too. A left that if you want to be left cannot turn your back on these people and, above all, it is incomprehensible that this element is an element of blackmail on the creation of a political crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The same is true in labour law. We are not just talking about measures that the Left Block defends. We're talking about the government not even standing by the measures that the PS defended in this House because it said the right was going beyond the troika. No, this is the government who wants to create a political crisis because it rejects removing that mark from the right behind the troika, because it rejects removing the troika from the labour law of labour contracts, from the breakdown of income. And it's understandable? I believe that the question is this: the left-wing people, the people of our country realize that there is a political crisis because they do not want to respond to pensions, decent work, a National Quality Health Service? I think the answer is clear and unequivocal: I don't understand! Unfortunately, it seems that only the Government, only the PS and only the Prime Minister do not understand this response from our people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u94	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u95	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I perceive the awkwardness of the Left Block today not knowing what to say to the Portuguese people who in 2019 trusted a government led by the Socialist Party with support on the left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But that does not give you the right, Mr President, to derail the expectations of the Portuguese with the reverses he gave in the rostrum. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And to false the truth is that he thinks he can go there saying that there was a lot of debate in the previous Parliament — and there was, there was a lot of dialogue, promoted by the Socialist Party and by the Government, just as there was a lot of dialogue in this Parliament — but not to say that the first ones who broke this desire for dialogue were you. It was the gentlemen who, on the day of the negotiation, with an A4 page, prevented a written agreement from taking place. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the gentlemen! It is because you knew that what you were asking the Government of the Socialist Party was not an agreement, it was an act. It was you who cheated the voters who trusted a left-wing majority when last year they voted against the State budget,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...even with proposals dialogued and written by the Left Block. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to it. You don't need to resort to falsehoods. The gentlemen. Members have put forward a number of proposals, but there is one thing that you cannot say, because no Portuguese understands, which is this: voting against this State budget because of labour laws is false, because they are not under discussion in the Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there's availability. Last Monday, in this plenary, the Minister for Labour once again expressed the Government's willingness to continue to work on what the proposals of the dignified work agenda are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Are you talking about pensions, sir? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. Members are preparing to vote against the increase in pensions, and not only lower pensions, but also pensions up to € 1100! You are the gentlemen who are preventing pensioners from receiving these pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Are you talking about health, Your Honor? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, they wanted a budget with more health funds, the honourable Members. Members wanted EUR 800 million of increase in the State budget to 2021. Now, EUR 1 billion has been allocated to health and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen voted against it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen say again that you are very concerned about health? Fortunately, this bench is author, with António Arnaut, of the National Health Service, that we are very proud of. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, as we are proud, we have continued to invest, invest and invest, so that this budget devotes 700 million euros of investment to the National Health Service, which you will vote against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Are you talking about the autonomy of the contract, Member? She was required, we put her in the Health Bases Act on the left, Mr. It was not made by the Left Block, remember. As regards the autonomy of the contract, the Government drew close to the measures they had proposed. With regard to full dedication, the Government drew close to the measures they had proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u96	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u97	You can keep saying no, but it's true and the ladies. Members have an obligation to speak truth to the country and to say that they have refused, by mere political tactics,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...voting against the Budget which is the leftmost budget. And you know, Mr President, it is not enough to say that it is left-wing, 'fill your mouth' with the left, 'fill your mouth' with the people, when they vote against the best budget for the people and against a left-wing budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u98	To reply, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I believe that the way in which someone is said to arrive at a negotiating table and present a document for them is an outrage to the negotiations says a lot about what is a negotiation process. [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] I listened to her with all serenity, Mrs. Deputies. I disagreed with everything I said, but I listened to it with all serenity, including when I was calling myself a liar. I haven't changed my posture, so I ask you to listen to me now. When the honourable Member says — a matter which has been repeated by the Government — that he feels exaggerated, to say the least, that the Left Block arrives at a negotiating table with points to negotiate with regard to its positions, I believe that this shows more of the arrogance on the side than the way to be in the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PS protests.]] When he says that the Left Block has put forward nine proposals and that these nine proposals are answered in this budgetary procedure, they have not been answered in the original document, nor do we see it — we have shown it several times, and the Government has never been able to show otherwise — in any of the approaches that the Government says exist. Let us look at the concrete examples he has given. The Government speaks in full dedication of health professionals and makes a proposal that falls short of what the right proposed on exclusive dedication. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] More: it only says that there is an extraordinary increase of hours, but professionals can continue to perform their duties in private, provided they are not in chief positions. Now, they cannot have a job in private, they can have a number of jobs in private, even as proposed by the Government. It does not value careers, does not give guarantees of future and stability to professionals and does not combat the promiscuity that currently exists and that is one of the problems of the National Health Service. When we come to talk about the millions for the National Health Service, we realize that there is indeed a huge difficulty in dialogue because, as for the millions that the government and the PS are talking about, we say "this is not executed", to which Mr. Minister answers: "it cannot compare what is expected with what is done". But then it always insists on the forecast and we realize that, in reality, the execution always falls short of the needs. More: we realize that, many times—and this is the fundamental problem—is the structural position of thinking about the SNS that is missing in the background matter and that is why we have the resignation in the catapult of the professionals. It is not the Left Block that is telling professionals to resign, it is not the Left Block that is instrumentalizing the struggle of these professionals. They are, from north to south of the country, who say they can't work like this. What is the PS response? What is the government's response? It is to reject the only measure that would guarantee a career appreciation in the National Health Service. That's the answer. Then we can go to the law of work. When it comes to extraordinary hours, someone understands that the government says 'yes, yes, it can be cut. The troika can easily cut off the first 120 hours of work because then on the remaining 30 legal hours we will already pay all the time»? Does anyone see that as an approach? Or like a troupe to workers and workers? Oh, my God! The extraordinary work should be penalized to create jobs and every job that is not created because it comes out cheaper to pay extraordinary hours is the responsibility of the troika, on the right, but also of this Socialist Party, which prevents the law from changing. And that's what we don't understand. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So, yes, we have differences and we never hide it. Even during that period of meetings and dialogues — we had a lot of meetings and dialogue, and now the Minister of Infrastructure knows that as no one — we did not agree at all, but there was a constructive dialogue. There was no answer like this that we have today: « Do you have nine proposals? Well, we all reject it. Take others, which are better». This sovereignty, this arrogance in the way to treat the Left Block, but above all, this way of treating the country shows as well as dialogue, which was the basis and cement of management, was the first thing to ruin, by the will of the Government and the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u100	I have the floor to speak to Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u101	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During this debate, the population rate at risk of poverty or social exclusion during the previous and this Legislation has already been recalled, from 26, 6 % in 2015 to 19, 8 % in 2020, a reduction of 6, 8 percentage points. If we stopped in families with children, we found that in 2015 the poverty risk rate of a single parent family was 31, 6 % and dropped to 25, 5 %; two adults with two children had a 17 % rate, which dropped to 13, 5 %, and in the families of two adults and three or more children was 42, 7 % and dropped to 39, 8 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We did not achieve these results by opening hundreds of social canteens or by changing the rules of social benefits to reduce the universe of beneficiaries. We have achieved these results because we honour the commitment to combat poverty, social exclusion and inequality and to regain the income of families in full respect for their dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Are we satisfied? Don't! There are still many children living in poverty and we well know the long-term consequences, not only in terms of equal opportunities and non-discrimination, but also in terms of development. contrary to the right, without prejudice to the work that needs to continue to be done in the elimination of the structural causes of poverty, we know that we cannot compromise the future of the new generations or the future of Portugal. We must therefore lay the hands on all instruments within our reach to strengthen the fight against child poverty. We also know that transfers of social support play a key role in reducing the risk of poverty of children by acting directly on the income available to families, thus improving their ability to meet the needs of all their dependents. This was what we did, for example, at the beginning of 2016, increasing family allowance in the first three steps and increasing single parent families from 20 % to 35 %. We are determined to make this fight even more effective. First of all, because the full enjoyment of the rights of the child is at issue, human rights which, by its special configuration, give us a special responsibility in its realization. But it is important to remember that the future of the country is also at stake. The impacts of poverty on children tend to extend throughout the life of the individual, in education, employment, income, health and reform. Investing in childhood is therefore investing in the future of the country. I welcome Mr. Prime Minister for the absolute priority that the Government has given to this great problem. The creation of a pecuniary child guarantee that will complement the family allowance, in order to guarantee, already in 2022, €840 per year, per child, and €1200, in 2023, is a huge step in this fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a measure that will have a very positive impact on the lives of children in poverty, and these impacts will accompany their growth, but reflect-CL - they will also be in their adult life; a measure that does not expect us to be able to solve all problems, overcome all challenges; a measure that translates our conviction that the child's time runs fast and cannot wait. Other measures included in this State budget, such as complementing the guarantee of childhood, increasing tax deductions or starting the free of charge of day care centres reinforce this investment in childhood and in the future, reinforce this strategic investment. For children and families, this is a budget that realizes hope. To approve it is to tell children and families that our commitment is firm and that we will honor it. To reject this budget is, in addition to everything we have spoken yesterday and today, also to refuse children and families this commitment to their future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u102	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u103	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the leftmost budget in recent years. This is a budget against private initiative and against companies, a budget that separates young people and the collection of talent, a budget that once again leaves the social sector and our social institutions behind. This is also a budget that disrespects social consultation. The social partners were disregarded, disrespected as never before. Mr. Prime Minister, one of the sectors most affected by the pandemic was and continues to be the third sector, the social sector. The social economy has a particularly important role in our society, because of the proximity it has to people day to day and in the response it gives to the most unprotected, our elderly, our children, people with disabilities and the most deprived families. Mr. Prime Minister, the social institutions were decisive and fundamental in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The social economy is indispensable to ensure the provision of intergenerational services and for the future of our country. A country where families have more day care offers for their children; a country where every elderly person can choose to stay at home and be more and more accompanied or choose to go to a home and find good conditions; a country with continuous care of close and affordable quality; a country where people with disabilities do not have to leave their lands to find those who care for them. It was this, Prime Minister, that the CDS always wanted, that the CDS recognizes that much of what I just emphasized is assured by our social institutions. We believe in social institutions and their ability to arrive often before the state, to get closer than the state or where the state does not even arrive. Social sector entities play a relevant and decisive role for social and territorial cohesion. The third sector entities, Prime Minister, many of them have experienced difficulties that have worsened with the pandemic, many of them at risk of closing doors, are financially strangled. It is urgent to update the commitment to cooperation with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, with the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions, with the Union of Portuguese Mutualities. For the social security machine, Mr Prime Minister, i.e. for the expenditure of the social security administration, we have an increase in expenditure of 30 million, but for social institutions and, in particular, for cooperation agreements, is not quantified. I repeat, Mr. Prime Minister, the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) are financially strangled. It is urgent to update the funds of the cooperation agreements for 2022 and also to compensate for the years 2020 and 2021. We must not forget that the fixed costs of the IPSS have gone off in the last two years: in electricity, in water, in light, with the increase of the minimum wage, with inflation, with the extraordinary costs that they had in the fight against the pandemic. The government continues to wave aside as if it were nothing and to disregard social institutions. There is not, Mr Prime Minister, in this budget, sufficient reinforcement for cooperation agreements. How is it possible to promise 10,000 new jobs for day care? With regard to informal caregivers, the CDS placed the theme of its support on the political agenda. The CDS worked hard to approve an Informal Caregiver Statute. We could have gone further and the CDS will continue to beat to strengthen this status, but it is essential immediately that it be put into practice and that it definitely start. It is necessary to ensure that more information exists and that the processes are deburocratized. The CDS considers that the support provided for in the State budget and the work measures submitted by the Government are insufficient in view of what is necessary and would have been expected two years since the adoption of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. The amount provided for in the State budget for 2022 is 30 million, exactly the same as in the 2020 budget and the 2021 budget. The execution was very, very low, not to say practically null in 2021. Mr Prime Minister, the Government's response to vocational training for disabled persons and their families, as well as to social institutions providing support in this area is clearly insufficient. The vocational training courses for people with disabilities do not open and more than 120 social institutions in this country do not know what to do. Families are desperate because they don't know what to do to their children and social institutions get no response from the government. As much as the Government speaks in the National Strategy for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, its applicability on the ground and in the responses to families and institutions is very small. Finally, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, this is a budget that once again forgets our social institutions. It does not value the proximity work that is done by our social institutions and the support that they provide daily to those who need it most. This Budget also shows, and again, an ideological prejudice that the left has against the institutions, against the mercys and against the mutualities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u104	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In health and, in particular, in the National Health Service, the State Budget for 2022 is in fact the financial instrument that enables the implementation of the political choices contained in the new Statute of the National Health Service, which was generally approved by the Council of Ministers and will be in public hearing and consultation in the coming weeks. These choices respect and reinforce the commitments made by the approval of the new Health Bases Act of 2019. Without her, they'll be incomplete. Therefore, I have no doubt that this Budget is one of the most important of the 42 years of the history of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Why? First, because it recovers the autonomy of the hiring of health professionals by the units of the National Health Service, which was limited for 10 years and which now resumes for all professions, including doctors. Secondly, because it reinforces respect for careers, through promotion competitions, with vacancies for special careers, including nurses managers and specialists, pharmacists advisors and senior advisors and other superior health technicians. Because it assumes the repositioning of nurses, as regards the relevance of the points acquired by the performance assessment at the moment prior to the new career, and because it creates the financial conditions for the negotiation of functional content and the pay table of the career of health assistant technicians, a priority that we assume in advance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, because it creates the conditions to replace the use of temporary workers and subcontracting of health professionals by increasing the value of the additional work of doctors on the staff map. Until the reorganization of emergency services and the reduction in the need for additional work we need to pay our professionals better, and that is what they claim. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourthly, because it encourages the full-time work regime, with progressive application, which is initiated by SNS doctors on a voluntary basis with care commitment and increased remuneration for all doctors who take this option and, on a mandatory basis, also with a management commitment, with the same care commitment and with increased remuneration, but with additional incompatibilities for the new service and department directors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, between 2015 and 2021, the National Health Service recovered wage cuts, increases for additional work, thawings, 35 hours of work as a regime-rule. It has given stability to working links through PREVPAP(Special Programme of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ) ; it has created new careers, such as superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and pharmacists ; it has increased its number of workers, workers representing a total expenditure of almost EUR 5000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It should be noted that this is a expenditure that is growing to 9 % at the moment. They're facts. Facts that we pride ourselves and that we build together, with the left parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Facts that we were proud and that allowed us, with these health professionals, to be better prepared, as seen, to respond to the pandemic, with competence and dedication. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Facts that became clear in the vaccination teams, which placed the country in the first place in the world in vaccination coverage against the COVID-19. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Facts that remain clear in the responses to other diseases, when it is found that in September 2021 the SNS has already achieved, compared to 2019, that was the largest year of SNS response volume,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... plus three million medical consultations in primary health care, plus 100,000 hospital consultations and 8000 surgeries. These are facts that show that the number of oncological surgeons increased, that the average waiting time decreased, compared to 2019, and that breast and colon and rectum cancer screenings are growing again. We know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that health professionals are the most important of the National Health Service. We trust them as patients and respect them as society. But we also know that health spending cannot be all consumed in staff spending, because it is necessary to modernize infrastructure and equipment, give access to vaccines and new medicines and invest in health prevention and promotion. Do you remember the 38 heavy medical equipment that were in the State Budget for 2021? Almost all are installed or in the process of acquisition and installation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you remember the intensive care units and the missing beds? Twelve hospitals already have new intensive care units and 13 conclude them by the end of the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you remember the vaccines against COVID-19? The 2021 cost EUR 390 million and we estimated EUR 325 million to EUR 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you remember the drug reported as the most expensive in the world, Zolgensma, for spinal muscle atrophy? The treatment has already been prescribed for 17 children to two million euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you remember the moderate rates? Yes, we have already left the primary health care charge, hospital consultations, complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means and we would be eliminating — we intend to eliminate! — the last tranche at the beginning of 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all know that the National Health Service has increasing obligations to respond to an older population, more affected by the weight of multimorbidities, but also more informed and demanding. We therefore need, and above all, to improve the organization of the National Health Service, especially by incorporating lessons from recent experience. This is what is intended to be done with the creation of the executive direction of the National Health Service, which will focus on the coordination and evaluation of the care response of the health units and its network functioning. This entity will play a formal role that has already proved particularly necessary in response to the pandemic. This is what is intended to be done with the recreation of local health systems, such as structures of participation and development of the collaboration of institutions that, in a given geographical area, perform activities that contribute to the achievement of health gains, whether in schools or in municipalities, whether in the social sector. This is what is intended to be done by promoting the integration of health professionals into hospital management bodies and ensuring the participation of users in the functioning of health services. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who wants to disregard the need for greater coordination for the integration of care, the link between health and other areas, the participation of workers and citizens in the management of services serves what interests? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not regret the road we have gone, but we know that there is a lot of ground to walk. José Mário Branco said: « I came from far, far away. What I've been here for. I'm going away, for a long time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u106	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u107	... where I know we will meet». The floor we have to walk requires effort and a clear understanding of what is discussed: two models of society are on the table. We all understand that. There is no staging, there is no will of crisis, there is a government that comes here to tell what it can, what it wants to do and what it will continue to do for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u108	Mrs Minister, you have signed up with the Bureau to make requests for clarification, nine ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. As previously articulated between the Government and the Bureau, the Minister will respond first to five requests for clarification and then to the remaining four. Therefore, Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, I tried to be enthusiastic about his speech, but it was not possible for me to do so because it was an empty speech and no solution to the urgent needs of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u111	In the direction of combating the pandemic, your Government and the Minister decided to leave the non-COVID patients behind, not ensuring them, as the State was obliged, the alternatives that would allow them timely access to the health care they needed. As a result of this policy option, official numbers indicate that only during the first year of pandemic, between March 2020 and February 2021, there was an excess of non-COVID mortality in the order of 7000 deaths compared to the average of the previous five years. I am not referring to COVID mortality, Mrs. Minister, but to non-COVID mortality. The truth is that 7000 deaths could and should have been avoided, were not only due to ideological blindness and social insensitivity of the Socialist Party's Government and its appearances on the left. In addition to this avoidable excess of mortality, the political options of the left, yesterday united, also led to the worsening of the health conditions of millions of chronic patients who, this year and a half, had no access to the care they needed. Even yesterday, the staff of professional health orders reported that millions of consultations, examinations and treatments were about to do, substantially exacerbating the health of Portuguese. Listen, Minister, the orders warn, and I quote: "we no longer only speak of lists of larger or smaller expectations as in the pre-COVID period, now we speak of an avalanche of cancer cases for diagnosing that we are coming or will come in advanced stages with the human and ethical suffering that this entails. Do not keep on seeking. ” In view of this dramatic human reality, what is the response capacity of the National Health Service at the end of six years of socialist governance? The truth is that, from north to south of the country, the conditions of degradation and rupture in the hospitals of the SNS, resulting in the resignation of leaders and other hospital officials, where many hospitals lack doctors and nurses and emergency services are increasingly threatened by collapse, as happens in Faro, Portimão, Braga, Guarda, Leiria, Castelo Branco, Setúbal or even in the hospitals in Lisbon. Madam Minister, in the face of such avoidable human suffering and in such a difficult context for public hospitals, does she not consider it necessary and urgent to create an emergency programme that allows a significant reduction in waiting times for surgeries, consultations, treatments and diagnoses, if necessary, by articulating the SNS with the private and social sectors, in order to defend the rights of our patients? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u112	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the CFP does not give up fighting for the measures necessary to recruit and fix health professionals in the SNS. With more workers, the National Health Service is more able to conduct more consultations, more surgeries, more exams, more treatments, to reduce waiting times, to assign physician and family nurse to all users. This is because we believe that it is the National Health Service that has to give this answer and is not with the transfer of care provision to private groups that only profit from the disease business.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u115	Yesterday we asked the Prime Minister the question again, but we did not have a response to the commitment to the implementation of the exclusive dedication proposed by the CFP as from 1 January 2022, with the increase of 50 % of the basic remuneration and the increase of 25 % in the time of service for the purpose of progress, among other incentives we have detailed. It is no use for the Government to say that it refers to further regulation, because experience shows that this means delaying problems in time. It is also not useful to say that the solution can be found with contractual mechanisms with professionals if this, in practice, continues to allow the exercise of the activity in the private sector. The government refers to the SNS Statute, but even this proposal has options that concern us and that go contrary to what is necessary. This is the case for private sector units to be able to integrate the National Health Service for the benefit of the disease business, which is a huge retreat in relation to the Health Bases Act that was approved. What we are dealing with right now, Mrs. Minister, is concrete commitments and solutions that certainly point to the meaning and strengthening of the National Health Service and its salvation. This is because, indeed, that is what this is about. It is definitely necessary to ensure the autonomy of health units in the hiring of health professionals and in the conduct of investments and this is not achieved if these solutions are dependent on limitations depending on the number of workers or the existence of business plans and budget. This gives us no guarantee, because we all know that it was precisely with the refusal of approval of these plans and budgets, in time and time, that the Ministry of Finance boycotted autonomous measures taken in the transport sector in previous budgets. Mrs Minister, we need to strengthen the SNS and ensure the provision of care to users, putting an end to promiscuity between public and private.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u117	It is necessary to implement the exclusive dedication from the first day of next year; it is necessary to ensure effective autonomy of the units in contracting and in making investments. They continue to lack concrete commitments from the Government in this regard, so I ask: what answers does the Government want to give? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u118	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, do you remember recent resignations at the hospital in Setúbal? Or in the psychiatric emergency in the port? Or Braga? The budget that is presented and which is here to defend is not remembered. It is not remembered, because these professionals have not, of course, resigned to opposing the Socialist Party Government, as sometimes they want to believe, but because, for example, in Setúbal of the six operating blocks can only put two to work because of lack of professionals and because, for example, also in Setúbal, they have already lost the training fitness for oncology due to lack of professionals. This budget does not remember these professionals or these situations. In fact, in front of professionals who are exhausted, exhausted, after more than a year and a half fighting a pandemic, what the Budget gives them is more extraordinary hours—over 500 extraordinary hours per year is the only answer that gives them! Mrs. Minister, do you remember the desert contests, for example, for family doctors in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, which is where there is the greatest lack of family doctors? More than 50% of the vacancies have been taken! And, no, ladies and gentlemen. PS Members, it's not because of lack of doctors. These had just been trained in the National Health Service, but they did not want to stay in the National Health Service when they opened the contests. Mrs Minister, do you remember the 35% of the places that were left to be occupied for the hospital specialties in the last contest? It was also not due to lack of doctors, because they had just been trained in the National Health Service. This budget does not remember these questions, it does not remember these professionals. On exclusivity, that the Left Block has pointed out as one of the possible solutions, precisely to ensure the establishment of professionals when they do not want to stay in the National Health Service, what the PS proposes is a kind of matrioska, because in the Budget it refers to the status and the SNS Statute says that the issues of increase, remuneration and incentives are for another decree-law to publish there forward. Therefore, there is just no big proposal, there is a matrioska, pushing forward that which would be the real proposal. However, the biggest problem is that there is no proposal on exclusivity, there is one proposal on something else that is not exclusivity. In fact, what is proposed by the Government of the Socialist Party is a regime for increasing the working hours of the National Health Service professionals with an increase in pay—it was also necessary to increase working hours and not increase pay! — but exclusivity is not. Why? Because the Government's proposal in the Statute of the National Health Service is that these professionals can continue to accumulate functions between public and private. This is strange exclusivity! Strange the notion of exclusivity on the part of the Socialist Party! Mr Minister, why did the Government, why did not the Government's Budget remember these issues? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u120	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u121	Mr. Presidents, ladies and gentlemen. Governors, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, this State Budget for 2022 is a Budget that strengthens public services and continues the path of consolidation of the National Health Service. Mrs. Members of the Left Block, of the PSD, Members in general, the only way we can consolidate this path is to approve this State budget, not to throw it into the trash and to realize that we are not discussing it here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The only way is to continue to strengthen the National Health Service with more means, and we have in this State Budget plus 700 million euros for the National Health Service. The speaker displayed a chart. on this chart, we can see, ladies and gentlemen. Members on the right, which was the decline of the means placed in the National Health Service and the path of recovery of funds, always reinforcing the National Health Service with more means, more doctors, more nurses and more diagnostic technicians. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, the world is not wonderful and we have problems, but they have to be faced with the measures that are in this Budget. Of course there are other issues that are outside this budget and that we must continue to discuss, as has already been said by the Government and the Socialist Party. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if some feel that the pandemic is overcome, but, as we see, even countries in Europe with serious problems at this level, we know that we have to put the country first. And putting the country first is to continue the path of strengthening the National Health Service, approving and validating this Budget. This is the challenge we have before us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u122	For a final request for clarification on this block, Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u123	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, despite the declared increase in health funds in this State budget, the truth is that the SNS has its serious and chronically compromised sustainability. If, by the end of 2019, the SNS had already presented many weaknesses, the COVID-19 pandemic came not only to expose these limitations as in many cases aggravated them. With all the activities to be carried out — consultations, surgeries, rehabilitation and complementary means of diagnosis and therapy — it becomes crucial to find more efficient mechanisms for financing and managing hospitals integrated in the SNS. Does this State budget respond to this obvious need? No way! Clearly, it can't! The Government's proposal is to continue to inject money, which the Government thought would be sufficient to ensure budgetary viability, but will not fully translate into gains for users and health professionals. There are two key issues which, in the view of the CDS, do not find a response in this State Budget : first, the recovery of care activity ; second, the model of financing SNS hospitals. With regard to the first point, it is sufficient to consult the Transparency Portal to understand the constraints that the pandemic brought in access to health care and compare the activity numbers in three times: prepandemia, during the pandemic and now, at the moment, after the pandemic. There are many areas where the values of care activity have not yet recovered to the pre-pandamy level: hospital presence consultations, subsequent hospital presence consultations, scheduled surgeries, emergency episodes, presence medical consultations in primary health care. There are several examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u125	I ask you, Mrs Minister, what concrete measures, in this Budget, assure the population a true and effective recovery of the care activity. Are they the 50 % more on the remuneration corresponding to which, for the same additional period of work, would it be longer than 500 hours? Do you want the government to make doctors even more burnout? Or will it be the full dedication provided for in the State Budget, but referred to a new Statute of the National Health Service, whose contents are unknown? For the CDS, part of the solution would be, without ideological prejudices, to contract, with the private and social sectors, the answer that the SNS alone cannot assure. With regard to the financing of SNS hospitals, Mrs. Minister, what is most needed to accept that this is the appropriate time to promote the gradual application of an alternative model to its financing, based on health gains, which places the patient at the center rather than procedures, which creates incentives for all health professionals involved to try to maximize the result achieved for the benefit of the patient concerned rather than a specific service? The SNS needs a results-based financing model, Mrs. Minister, as the CDS has long been defending! We don't see anyone in the area of health believe in this Budget. There are several criticisms of professional orders, trade unions, the Portuguese Association of Hospital Administrators and also of personalities such as Prof. Julian Perelman, former coordinator of the Mission Structure for the Sustainability of the Health Budget Program, of his predecessor, Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes, or of the former Secretary of State of Health Manuel Delgado. It's not just the CDS that doesn't believe in this health budget. They are the main interlocutors in the area. It is the health professionals, the seniors responsible and, in general, the society that does not believe. And for the last few days, the left no longer believes! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u126	To answer, you have the floor to Ms.Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is, therefore, but the Minister of Health continues to believe in the Budget which he and the Government have presented to the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He continues to believe and brings the numbers that justify the reason why he continues to believe in the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u128	That's worse! Isn't it enough to be bad anymore? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u129	I don't need the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, to get excited about my speech, I think you could hear it. I have already shown enough, numbers show enough and the activity of professionals shows enough growth in all areas of care activity, which occurred in the SNS in this year of 2021, in September, compared to the most productive year before, 2019. Except for two areas: we have less than a million emergencies, but we do not want to recover it, we want people to use primary health care as an entry door to the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do we have any more non-existence consultations? We have, but we also have a choice for the use of telehealth. We've been asking people to use it for years! We must continue to qualify the answers at this level. In addition, I could talk about many other things, but I would prefer to talk about what is being discussed and which still seems to me to be insufficiently misunderstood, such as the themes of full dedication and the proposal we have on the table. Full dedication is not exclusive dedication, I repeat, it is not exclusive dedication! We don't want to pay people anymore just because of their work regime change names. We don't want to! That's not what the Health Bases Act decided to do. The basic law decided to do something different: it decided to choose the full dedication as a mechanism, through which professionals have a different work project. That's what they ask us: more and better health care for everyone! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What distinguishes us is, then, the following: they have proposed to us a dedication full of compulsory character. We said maybe that wasn't the best way. We choose the dedication full of optional character, only compulsory for those who exercise managerial duties. They told us that they wanted us to start with those who have management positions. We said that we would also do it, but that what we really wanted was to encourage those who were at the beginning of the careers and wanted to embrace a new project in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They told us that they wanted us to give more than 40 % to those who already have a supplement for being a service director or department or coordinator of functional units, in which they already receive more € 910. We said that it might be better to negotiate with trade union structures, because it is with them that we solve the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u130	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u131	Finally, they told us that they understood that full dedication should also have a reduction in time for those over 55 years. We said that we could not take that step right now, because we need more hours of work. That is why we have defined a supplementary work payment scheme, not because we want to put people to work longer hours, but because we want to pay them better while those hours are needed. No, we cannot replace the additional hours of work purchased to service providers by doctors, for the simple reason that we will buy about 5 million additional hours of work to service providers. Transforming this into medical contracts, of which 18 hours would be given to emergencies, would mean hiring more than 3,500 doctors that the country does not have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u132	In private there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u133	Because our first responsibility is with the users, we say again that we are available to implement full dedication from the beginning of the new year, eventually with a transitional regime until their negotiation with trade union structures. This is a full dedication regime that corresponds to the commitments we made in the new Health Bases Act and we do not distance ourselves from one millimeter. in this context, the private and social sectors have an additional role and their integration is made where the National Health Service does not have the ability to respond. We remember, every day, the doctors of Setúbal and Braga and other services, but we remember, above all, the users of these services and that is what moves us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u134	Mr. Minister, you have four further requests for clarification. Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, there are some issues that we cannot fail to raise so that the Portuguese are clarified on which path the government has chosen. With regard to the National Health Service, it is urgent to clarify why in this proposal of State Budget for 2022, more than 700 million investments in the SNS, when, in reality, every day, in the fragility of the responses, we continue to feel a great difficulty in access to this right. In fact, the big question arises if the Minister commits herself to not being used to cover the holes of previous years, to give to the private and even to invest in the SNS. Once again, Mrs. Minister of Health, The Greens can not fail to remember that Portuguese people continue with serious difficulties in accessing primary care, either because they often call health centres without account and can not even get them to answer the phone, either because we are in October and some family doctors are only consulting for January 2022. The disease can wait — for sure, this must be the government's thought! These difficulties were already identified before the pandemic, were assumed by the government during the pandemic and it was promised that the investment would be made, but the truth is that it is not yet resolved. There is not enough procurement of human resources, there is no more appropriate technology available today, there is no interest in extending primary care schedules, such a necessary and urgent measure. In February, The Greens brought to discussion a project that recommended the Government to hire clinical secretaries and operational assistants in an appropriate number to affect primary health care. thus, the normal operation of these units was ensured and the users' access to health services was ensured, ensuring the necessary technical means, particularly computer and telecommunications, so that it could give a rapid response to users, in particular by ensuring the service of telephone calls. The PS, attempting to justify its abstention, stated that a significant part of the operational assistants would have already been hired in the course of 2020 and that in the State budget for 2021, more professionals would also be recruited. But, nine months ago, we know that this is a cross-sectional problem to the five regional health administrations of the country. Following a medical consultation or requesting a renewal of a prescription in health centres has been increasingly difficult for users, at a time when the Directorate-General of Health still recommends patients who do not travel to health centres without prior marking. Mrs. Minister, users have already been deprived of access to proximity monitoring for too long. It is not acceptable for these difficulties to remain! Facts, Mrs. Minister, are the 1200 complaints about telephone constraints made to the Health Regulatory Entity. This, yes, are facts! There is no intention to solve the problem in this proposal. Another fact, Mrs Minister, is that we will not see, in this proposal for a State Budget, a clear investment in mental health, which will continue to be the poor relative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u137	The Greens argue that primary care should be provided with response in this area, with more specialized professionals, with an effective link with hospital care, with school psychologists. Ms. Minister, it is urgent to prevent, diagnose, follow-up close to the disease and this will not be possible without the hiring of more psychologists, psychiatrists, specialist nurses, specialist technicians for health centers. Are they fundamental elements for prevention, for diagnosis and for adequate treatment, but are they or are they not contracted? The words in this Budget seem small to me for the construction of structures, the more for the hiring! The structures planned for mental health reform to emerge from the paper were referred only to the PRR, this small for all evils. But the difficulties that persist and the incidence of mental illness at this stage need answers today. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u138	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, need to halt the release of doctors and nurses from the National Health Service, both for the private and for emigration. It is necessary to include in the Budget the investment funds that are necessary and that do not leave room for doubts as to the sense of strengthening the National Health Service. It is necessary to ensure that the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Health effectively serves to strengthen the National Health Service and not to divert resources to feed the disease business or to pay the debt back. This is hardly enough to pay the late debts of the National Health Service which will probably exceed EUR 1500 million by the end of the year. It is necessary to ensure that the Budget serves to improve the conditions of health professionals, hospitals and health centres of the National Health Service and not those of the private sector. The CFP has led to discussion with the Government solutions to the problems of health professionals' careers, to ensure a public bond, to ensure professional careers and integration of professionals in conditions that allow their progression and promotion. The CFP has proposed incentives appropriate to the establishment of health professionals in the areas and in the poor care. The CFP has been struck by these solutions with the exact notion of its urgency, because it is urgent that this is the matter, Mrs Minister, when we discuss the future of the National Health Service and its quality response. None of this is possible without concrete solutions to combat the precariousness of health professionals or limiting contracts, which are not allowed if there is an increase in the number of workers. With regard to investment, the PCP has presented solutions that serve to build new hospitals and to modernize existing ones, to replace obsolete equipment and to acquire new equipment. It is this urgent investment that the National Health Service needs to be strengthened instead of budget resources being directed to private groups in the disease business. I give you the example of the Beja hospital, Mrs. Minister. The Beja hospital spends, per year, on magnetic resonances contracted in private, the equivalent of the cost of purchasing and installing new equipment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u140	Every year!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u141	It is an example of what we could be serving through the National Health Service. Mr Minister, there is a lack of concrete commitments on the part of the Government to ensure that the necessary solutions are implemented from 1 January, without delay or delay of subsequent regulations, and that it can be said without fear that there is an effective commitment to the necessary measures to save the National Health Service from the assault that economic groups are doing to it in the case of the disease. Is the Minister in a position today to make concrete commitments for the necessary solutions? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u142	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u143	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health, we do not forget that much of this legislation has been passed on with the daily management of the pandemic, which has not yet left us, and of which we still suffer consequences. Looks like some people haven't taken that into account! Open... The National Health Service, chronically in difficulties, especially after the restrictions imposed on the time of the « go beyond the troika », was reinvented. It was reinvented to face the pandemic. Much is due to the effort, dedication and sense of responsibility of your workers, which is never too much to greet. However, we cannot forget a greater flexibility of action, forced by the dynamics of the pandemic, which allowed us to discover and mobilize suspicious human and material resources so that the National Health Service would fulfil its historical responsibility: saving lives and healing. The vaccination process was a paradigm of the operation of the National Health Service. This State Budget provides for a value never before considered for investment in health and specifically in the National Health Service. This is about EUR 700 million. at the same time, the government announced the creation of a management unit of the National Health Service, of a national scope. We know that the government, because it respects trade union negotiations, has not, in my opinion, defined the functional content of this unit as well as the question of full dedication. Mrs Minister, has the government equated, in the light of the teachings that the pandemic has brought us, the contribution that this new management structure can make to make the National Health Service a centre of excellence, which responds to the challenges posed in terms of health and well-being for Portuguese people? Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we've all been responsible. We regret today that some parties, some Members. Ladies and gentlemen, they left the path of responsibility and passed the way to the protest. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country will know and understand the right side of history. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u144	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u145	Mr President, Madam Health Minister, we take good note of your intervention and of the availability to work on the review of professional health careers, the pay tables and the fair replacement of a career like that of health assistant technicians. However, from its intervention and reading that, once again, we make a State Budget, we would like to remember that the choice at the level of health prevention policies is fundamental and is a clear way to ensure the sustainability of our National Health Service, investing in prevention rather than investing in the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u146	Madam Member, I appreciate your conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. Investment in prevention cannot only be done with awareness campaigns, with vaccination plans, but it is done with the promotion of healthy eating habits, it is done with the promotion of sports practice and early diagnosis, which continues to be so lacking in our National Health Service. It is a political option, Mrs. Minister. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u148	To answer, you have the floor to Ms.Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Silva, in fact, there are many things we still need to do to improve the National Health Service and that is why we recognize that we have projects, plans and a budget that we need to approve. We have increased the number of technical assistants, including clinical assistants, in 17 957, over the last few years at the SNS — I repeat, 17,957 technical assistants, of which 476 since the beginning of this year! This was undoubtedly the greatest reinforcement in the complementarity of this function, in the care and referral of patients. We have also improved service in terms of telephone power stations and information technology, despite how much we still have to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u150	Years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u151	But that's why the PRR is so important, because the PRR is not a small one, it's really a fundamental means of financing... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...not only for mental health, but also for health information networks. at the level of mental health, we have EUR 88 million, registered in the RPP. The structures of the Community mental health teams were registered this year in the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u152	Only the structures take all that money!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u153	We have created the 10 structures that we are committed to creating and at the PRR level we will continue to strengthen them in terms of their means of work, at the level of modernization of local mental health systems, at the level of deinstitutionalization, at the level of the dignity of the conditions under which forensic psychiatric patients are hospitalized, at the level of a set of responses that will try to improve what is a delay—it is said by the technicians, it is not said by me—of more than a decade in relation to the implementation of the National Plan for Mental Health. It is worth remembering when it was hung: it was in 2011. With regard to the commitment to full dedication, our commitment to the implementation timetable is complete. We believe that it is possible, on 1 January, to move forward with a supplementary scheme, until negotiations with workers, which starts at a base of 37 % of the basic remuneration of the professionals who are working under this scheme. Of course, this is a work that can be improved and trade union negotiations will be fundamental to improving it. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, let me tell you that it is precisely because we believe that prevention and health promotion are essential that we believe in the National Health Service. It's just private insurance pays only curative care! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Everything that is offered by public-private partnerships and other models only pays curative care. It is in the social state that we make the effective changes that people need in their lives: childcare, better work, better housing, daycare. It is that the health budget — and I have been saying this since the first time that I have come here — is before the ladies and gentlemen. Members—it is not only in the health square, it is in several places and in several measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why this project is so important and that is why we are available to, in the specialty, continue to improve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's interrupt our work. As is provided for in the agenda, we will begin at about 3 p.m. on an hour's time for the evaluation of the State budget, generally after what we will continue for the closure and the vote. [[It was 13 hours and 15 minutes.]] [[After the interruption, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] We will resume our work and do so with an intervention by Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, who I give the floor to, from the PS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u156	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The debate is already long and, indeed, it has already been asked here, but I have to ask again to our left if they have forgotten what we have built in recent years, if they have forgotten the way we have done in public school, if they have forgotten what has been advanced in science, what has been advanced in higher education, how we have reached the historical minimum in school dropout, how we have increased the number of students in universities and in politics. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Parents, teachers, students are at home looking at all of us and need an answer. They need an answer because they look at us with this expectation of who knows the left makes the difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They know and we also know, because we remember the way, we remember what it has cost, we remember how difficult it has been. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to ask you: do you remember how we increase education budgets every year? Remember how we have increased the number of teachers since 2015? Do you remember how we frozen the races? Do you remember how we increased the number of operational assistants? Do you remember how we increased the number of psychologists in schools? Do you remember the hundreds of schools we attended? I have to ask: Do you remember when students had to pay their school textbooks? [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] Do you remember that every year the propines increased? Do you remember that if it weren’t for this joint work, would it cost more than €400 a year today? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you remember when the bags were lower than the value of the tip? When, in higher education, the budgets of the institutions were paid year by year? Do you remember when the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) was in the bone? How did we double the number of doctoral scholarships? It's just that we remember! We remember that the Budget does not start from scratch and that every year the previous achievements add up to those we present now. Each Budget has new measures, but it also has all these measures and all these achievements achieved by pulse. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u157	But they will say it was little, they will say it was little invested in education. Mrs. Members, since 2015, spending on education has increased by more than 30 %. With this Budget it will grow more than 8%. So I ask you to say, with realism: is it really a problem of lack of investment? Let's say it clearly! Is it really a problem of lack of investment? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still time to rethink. Therefore, the question is even if, once again, they will prefer to stay in the comfort of the protest, instead of trying to fight for the country, or take on with us the weight of responsibility and the difficulties we have to face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters is people's concrete lives, so that it is clear that, for us, the choice is simple: the struggle that is worth it is the one that changes people's lives. That's where they'll find us! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u158	The Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification, so we move on to the next intervention by the PSD, by Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Although we are still living in full pandemic, vaccination allows us to see the end on the horizon. There were key moments when all the parties sitting here, in the Assembly of the Republic, had to join us. Despite all our ideological and political differences, we assume the virus as our common enemy. in a world as polarized as the one in which we live, in which we tend to focus on our differences, the way in which the Portuguese united and took the lead in response to the pandemic and now actively participated in the vaccination allows us to have the boldness of hope in our country and in the European project. And, therefore, in the midst of the pain and suffering of those who have lost their loved ones, or of the families who have lost their livelihood, or of the companies that have succumbed or are in critical condition due to the bankruptcy of invoicing, everyone expected more of this State Budget. Everyone expected a Budget that translated a vision for the post-Pandemic decade, a model of development for our time, which could be reflected in the improvement of the life of each citizen, of each family in our country. [[PSD applause.]] For us, the Social Democratic Party, the main party of the opposition and the only realistic alternative of governance, there was the expectation that the pandemic would have opened its eyes to the government, causing a shift in direction that would translate into the State Budget by 2022. But unfortunately, the worst scenario has been confirmed. This budget proposal confirms that the Government has lost its ambition to lead and is trapped in a swamp for which Mr. Prime Minister is dragging the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u160	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u161	There is, in everyone's view, another socialist swamp. It is the waste of taxpayers' taxes, a disrespect to the workers who have done everything this year so difficult to honour their tax obligations. The budget proposed by the Government here is incapable of stimulating the real economy, it is unable to attract new talents and investments and, consequently, it is unable to create the wealth needed to combat the screaming inequalities that exist in our country. With this government, who is poor will continue to be poor, only with the right to try to survive. Well, living has to be more than just surviving. Citizens have the right to live in a country where the government values well-being and creates conditions so that each person, by means of work, can enjoy more for themselves and for his or her own. But that is not what the government has to offer. With this Budget, the poor will continue to be poor and the middle class simply cannot aspire to a better life. It's a budget without ambition. [[PSD applause.]] And the health budget is an example of the lack of reformist capacity of an exhausted and trapped government on its own path. Still with the pandemic so present in our lives, and after the brutal pressure to which the health system and its professionals were subjected, it would be to wait for the presentation of new ideas to correct the chronic problems of lack of access to health and ensure sustainability for the SNS in the future. But what is presented to us will turn out to be the opposite. They take money from our taxes on public health service, but do not solve the structural problems that compromise the daily functioning of the SNS. With the policies of this government, now reinforced in this Budget, people will become increasingly ill, we will have more and more chronic patients, and the costs will not stop growing. Rather than bet on health, they simply react to the disease. The end is in sight of all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. With this government, with this model that the Budget imposes for the National Health Service, Portugal will eventually have not one, but two health systems: a health system for the rich and a health system for the poor. Whoever has money will deal with their health, who has no money will have to settle and hold on to any waiting list. [[PS protests.]] Hang on, hold on, hold on, hold on until I can't take it anymore. In very practical terms, let us see what this State Budget offers for health. In 2016, Prime Minister Antonio Costa promised that all Portuguese would have access to a family doctor in 2017. Today, at the end of 2021, more than one million citizens remain without a family doctor, lined up at the door of health centres and this Budget shows itself once again unable to respond. Hundreds of thousands of Portuguese will still not have access to a family doctor. [[PSD applause.]] Speciality waiting lists are accumulated and no realistic solution is presented. Worse than dealing with this serious problem in the future, the Government prefers to deceive itself in the State budget itself, in which it claims a supposed increase in the number of consultations in 2020, year of the COVID-19 pandemic, compared with 2019. It should be noted, however, that 59 % of these consultations were not even present. Mrs. Minister of Health, the serious health problems in Portugal are not resolved with propaganda, they are resolved with reforms that your Government is once again unable to do. [[PSD applause.]] They promise reinforcements on all fronts, continuous care, palliative care, mental health teams, new hospitals for all and for all. Finally, one without a number of promises, most of which are not quantified, repeated from Budget to Budget, without actually translating themselves. After the pandemic crisis, public health, health promotion, disease prevention is again ignored. This government is even unable to learn from mistakes, even after the greatest health crisis of the century. And health professionals, exhausted after year and a half of full dedication, confirm what they already felt: a government that does not value them, unable to find models of incentives that work. Moreover, with the degradation of the response capacity of the National Health Service and the lack of leadership and lack of working conditions, even those who have devoted their entire career to public health service end up moving away. Winter approaches and adds to the resignations in hospitals, from north to south of the country, signs of pre-supply in emergency services, which should have the ability to respond today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, worse than a bad budget is the lack of leadership and vision for the health of Portuguese. Obviously we vote against it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u162	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, your intervention has a problem immediately at the outset, which is your credibility to make the intervention you have just done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] His credibility as a Member of Parliament, who, before the 2021 Budget, also went up to the rostrum to say and conclude that "As a doctor I am, I can say, this is a budget that hurts health". [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Well, the Budget that hurt health was the Budget that fought the pandemic, it was the Budget that gave the answer that the PSD never believed it could be given. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Many times, the honourable Member and the honourable Members. Members of your bench said the SNS was going to break up, because the SNS didn't have the ability to answer, and the truth is, it didn't. [[PS Applause]] [[PSD protests.]] We also remember very well when your bank and the honourable Member said that it was impossible to meet the time limits for vaccination and Mr Rui Rio said that it was so complicated that they were neither able to do it. I said it at a press conference right there, right next to this room. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Member, today vaccination is a success in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is here talking about exhausted and tired health professionals. I would like to ask you what health professionals in the world have been fighting the pandemic that is not tired today. But I also tell you, Mr. Member, that these professionals would be much more tired if the government had not invested in health professionals as you invested,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...if the government had not returned 35 hours. Is there a problem with solving health problems? There's still, sir! But it is this party and it is this government that has tried to solve them, and not Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u164	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u165	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, thank you very much for the questions that I have been asked. Unfortunately, she revealed that she should not use the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] What the patients feel, more than a million Portuguese people who do not have access to a family doctor, is that they have to wait, often at the door of health centres, for an emergency consultation, because they have no other chance. I remind you of the Minister of Health, even before being Minister, that more than a year of waiting for a specialist consultation would be unacceptable. Looking at concrete examples, as is the case with Faro, we see that a pneumology consultation has more than three years of waiting. When I look at the Elvas Hospital case, I see that, for psychology, there is a waiting time of 651 days. When we look at the case of ophthalmology, I see that there are more than 50,000 people, right now, on a waiting list, only in the Lisbon Region and Tejo Valley, or for cardiothoracic surgery, which has 256 days of waiting at Santa Cruz Hospital. And it could go on. Unfortunately, what I have said is absolutely true, Madam Member. And we can deny reality or face it to solve the Portuguese health problem. [[PSD applause.]] What has been said, very clearly, is that the way in which they are sinking the National Health Service, throwing money without making structural reforms, will lead us to have a system for the rich and a system for the poor, a system in which those who have resources have access to time and hours to health and to whom, who has no money, has to stay on the waiting lists. And, yes, worldwide, health professionals are very tired, Mrs. Deputy. But in other parts of the world, there are governments that value the work of health professionals and who sit at the table with health professionals in order to find incentives to ensure that these professionals can continue to work. [[PSD applause.]] What we see here, in Portugal, with this government, is a turn from back to health professionals. It is not by chance that two thirds of the doctors in this country have already left the National Health Service. And the way remains, due to the lack of incentives, because of our government's inability to manage. I shall finish with the question of the pandemic, Mrs Deputy. The pandemic, in fact, has often brought the best and worst of what we have in the National Health Service and the professionals were undoubtedly the best. But I remember that when, last year, we proposed — in March, in April and again in November — that the Armed Forces deal with the logistical side, preparing the country for vaccination, it was this government that wanted to politicize vaccination. [[PSD applause.]] in confronting the weakness, with the failure of the management capacity of this government, they had to bring Vice Admiral Gouveia and Melo to impose a logistics organization. [[PSD applause.]] It was the health of the Portuguese that was involved. And because of this bad governance, at first, they would question the vaccination process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u166	Well remembered! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u167	Fortunately, in our country, we have people who are highly capable of working and leading. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u168	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a State Budget for 2022 continues the economic policy chosen by the Government, seeking to create the conditions to ensure sustained growth in our economy, breaking with the previous paradigm, which was committed to gaining competitiveness by reducing labour costs. Our economic policy, on the contrary, bets on productivity growth. This is the only way that enables us, in the long term, to grow the economy, pay better wages and sustain our social state. This choice is clear and has been motivated not only for economic reasons but also for political reasons. It was motivated by economic reasons, from the outset, because trying to maintain competitiveness through low costs and low wages, as happened between 2011 and 2015, is a losing model, which keeps companies inefficient in the market. But it was also political reasons that led us to break up with this model. As a community, we have the strict obligation to offer our fellow citizens a fair opportunity to fulfil their personal and professional aspirations in our country, including those of access to a decent job that is compatible with their qualifications. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As European citizens, Portuguese always have the choice of leaving the country. For this reason, compared with the work devaluation policy, adopted between 2011 and 2015, 400 000 Portuguese left the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That sad nation, in which the head of government invited our compatriots to emigrate! It was this model that broke, so the objectives of economic policy were different. They were to support innovative and exporting companies, redirect European incentives for innovative projects, in co-promotion between companies and entities of the national scientific and technological system, engage in export growth and attracting foreign direct investment and improve qualifications. It has also been invested in strengthening corporate capitalisation through tax incentives to retain profits and to strengthen own capital. Efforts have been made to ensure the growth of labour income, gradually improving the prospects for workers' lives and encouraging companies to become more efficient. The results were impressive. Between 2015 and 2019, exports increased by more than 40 % in value. More companies today export more products to more markets. It has increased business investment in Research and Development and in the hiring of qualified human resources. Portugal is no longer just a country that produces good and cheap, to be a country that begins to invent the goods it produces. The companies have strengthened their financial autonomy and profitability. Private investment has increased and has never been so high the foreign investment stock. The minimum wage increased continuously: more than 30 % in just six years and the government committed itself to reaching a total increase of almost 50 % by 2023 to 750 €. The average wage also increased by more than €1300 last year, an increase of more than 20 % in just five years. In the last two years, economic policy has naturally been determined by combating the crisis caused by the COVID-19. Our priorities were, as we could only be, support for family income, protection of employment and the preservation of the productive potential of companies. In 2022, the scenario is different, but we still have uncertainties in our economy. Lack of labour and components or increased cost of raw materials and transport can condition the pace of recovery and have adverse impacts on our companies. The sectors most affected by the pandemic, especially the housing and restoration sector, even though they already feel the effects of the recovery, lack longer support. All these reasons require that, in the proposal for a State Budget, the Government retains the need to maintain the availability of resources to support the most affected companies and to cushion the most significant effects of the disturbance on the markets. This budget is aligned with our country strategy. The year 2022 should be the year of acceleration of the ongoing transformation process of our economy. Portugal is particularly well placed to take on new economic ambitions and to become a new level of competitiveness, based on the competences that we already have and the resources that Europe puts at our disposal. The budget proposal for these purposes aims at an unprecedented strengthening of resources, combining national resources originating in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, a total of EUR 2600 million, to support the capitalisation of companies, to implement the InvestEU programme, to encourage investment in technological activities, to grant grants to innovative activities, to decarbonisation of industry and to digitize trade and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In order to support retention and talent attraction, it is proposed to strengthen the IRS Youth program and the Regressar program. Because the biggest growth comes from younger and more disruptive companies, it has sought to bet on the development of entrepreneurship, in accordance with the European Startup Nations Standard, which we presented during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. To reduce structurally one of the main context costs for national companies, i.e. the high cost of our electricity, the Government has already committed itself to strengthening financial transfers to the National Electric System, which, together with other measures, will allow the value of the network access tariff to industrial consumers to be reduced by 94 % by next January. Consider, for a moment, the significance of this news: in the coming years, the cost of electricity will become a competitive advantage for Portuguese companies in front of their European counterparts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government maintains the planned trajectory for the national minimum wage. In January, we will live the greatest ever increase in the national minimum wage. Being a great effort for our companies and for the Public Administration, we believe that this is a realistic objective that is compatible with the aim of converging with the European Union's average in terms of the weight of labour income in GDP, which we have been carrying out these years. In terms of valuing work, we have the notion of the profound injustice that represents the segmentation of our labour market. Most young people under the age of 40, the most qualified generation ever, are in a precarious situation. We therefore submit to this House, in parallel with the State Budget, a proposal for a law on the Dignified Work Agenda, to combat precariousness and strengthen the protection of younger workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have proved that it is possible to successfully adopt an economic model that is far from the paradigm that has grown in recent decades. It is a model that assumes the appreciation of knowledge as the main competitive advantage and people as the most critical resource for the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was the model which, in recent years, the Government of the Socialist Party has been developing, with the support of the parties to its left. It was a model that gained the confidence of citizens and foreign investors, which allowed the risk of poverty to be reduced, the fight against inequalities and the rise in family income, which enabled a historical reduction in unemployment and the unprecedented increase in exports and investment, and which allowed the balance of public accounts. Let us make this clear: it was this Parliamentary solution that gave political support to this reorientation of economic policies, from the devaluation of work to the enhancement of knowledge. It was she who allowed the strengthening of the social state and the reduction of inequalities. Much is still to be done. Poverty bags persist in our society. Most of our young people only find jobs precariously and with low wages. Many accept occupations for which they are overqualified. Public services lack additional resources and are of higher management quality. That is why the tasks that still call us are great, and it would be more rhythms than we would like to be able to print on them. Several factors, however, force us to have a special sense of responsibility, from the outset our excessive debt. Our path is long and any "step greater than the leg" can cause us to lose the credibility we have gained in recent years, leading to a sudden and uncontrolled increase in interest rates of public and private debt, or a withdrawal from the investment we so lack. « But this is not enough», some say, and prefer to reject the Budget, under the pretext of it not go far enough or faster. They prefer to reject it, in fact, for reasons that do not have to do with the budget proposal. In the history of our democracy, the parties to the left of the PS had so much capacity to mark the governance agenda and never a State Budget was so shaped by the intervention of these parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For it is this same budget that these parties are preparing to reprove and thereby determine the dissolution of Parliament. It should be noted that a budget has never been rejected. This rejection, in this context, will generate an inevitable political crisis, at a time when, despite the COVID-19, the economy is recovering, employment in growth, public finances are controlled, public debt has the means to continue to reduce and European resources of unprecedented size can be placed at the service of the country's development. He wants to say, what a waste! [[P.S.'s applause.]] from here a few years ago, we will have to explain to the comers these strange times and the paths that have brought us here. Perhaps time and distance illuminate our understanding. For now, it remains to be noted that this has happened and that we are determined to carry out our duties, knowing that this is our duty at the service of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u170	Six Members have applied for clarification from the Minister, who has informed the Bureau that he will answer all together. You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mrs. Isabel Pires of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u171	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Minister for Economic Affairs, one of the biggest problems in the economy right now is called 'energy costs', particularly with fuels. In fact, in a scenario of economic recovery, this problem cannot seem to us to be left with only half the answers. So the question we wanted to ask you is whether the government is going to go for discount card measures or whether it will even have the courage to do what we think is urgent and what we have already proposed. On the one hand, it is a matter of limiting the marketing margins, but on the other hand, of controlling prices, which is not, in fact, unpublished in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u172	Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u173	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, in this debate of the State Budget for the year 2022, I would like to begin by stressing macroeconomic data : 4, 8 % of estimated economic growth for this year and more than 5 % estimated for next year. It is these macroeconomic data that many today want to question. We well know that, on our right-wing parliament, they are more interested in some militancy data, but it is sad that our left-wing parliament forgets this data. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from a health point of view, we respond well to the pandemic and, from an economic and social point of view, we give the answer that was necessary and at the right time. It is important to remember that more than EUR 8 billion has been invested since March 2020 in our companies for economic and social recovery. What alternatives did the right opposition have? What alternatives? Oh, my God! It's important to ask this. This is a Budget that allows more public investment. This is a 30% increase in public investment, and it is against this budget that the Parliamentary Left or the Parliamentary Left prepares to vote. At the level of employment, of course, understanding that any unemployed person is a tragic social situation, the truth is that we have more employees today than in the pre-pandamia. And the year of 2022 allowed — and allows — macroeconomic data to lower the unemployment rate compared to the year 2019. One important question that is put to the Minister is this: can these macroeconomic data not be called into question, these investments cannot be called into question, economic and social recovery through the Recovery and Resilience Plan cannot be called into question by the parliamentary lead, which is merely tacticalist, on our left? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u174	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u175	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and other government members, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Economic Affairs, I want to go directly to the issue of economics, businesses and wages. There is an unforgettable fact: micro and small enterprises are the ones that live most in the internal market, the income available from families and therefore need even the increase in wages, including the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u177	According to the National Institute of Statistics, on average a microenterprise has a monthly cost of wages which is little more than half the corresponding to external supplies and one third of the cost of goods and materials consumed. The cost for the micro-enterprise of a wage increase is more than compensated for the economic gains. Low wages are a problem for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because you can only sell what wages can buy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u179	And the Minister has always recognized that. Even the question of convergence with Europe, which the Government so often refers to, can and should be raised in this regard. Well, in Spain, the minimum wage is about 1000 €. In Germany, a 25 % increase was announced by next year, plus €400, to close to €2000. This way, Minister, an increase of €40 does not at least respond to the needs that are placed. We are no longer in a frame of negative inflation. In fuels and in the rest the cost of living increases. In fact, the arguments for the importance of wage increases are more than demonstrated. The problem is that the government is putting into practice effectively. Our proposal is €850 in the short term for the minimum wage. We proposed to the Government a gradual process of €800 in 2022 and €850 in 2023 — the government said no! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We have even proposed that if the year of 2022 began with 755 €, the government would say no! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The Government has marked its position in March of this year and so far continues to refuse any alternative solution. And so, Minister, is it so important for the government that the minimum wage does not increase in these values? You excuse speaking in "steps greater than the leg" if, in fact, you cut your legs to the answers that are necessary and urgent. Only in the national minimum wage are we talking about the concrete life of one in four Portuguese workers. The government's intransigence benefits whom? Who wins this option from the Government not to take even one step, one step, never to evolve in the debate, throughout all this time, on this absolutely central issue, which is the increase in wages? Mr Minister, it does not help to insist on the statement that they want the approved budget if they continue to refuse the necessary solutions to the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u180	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mrs Vera Braz.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u181	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the year 2019 was marked by a new record in Portugal, the record of the creation of new companies for the third consecutive year, well elucidative of the road started in 2015, a true path of alternative, of confidence, in which the aim was to turn the page of austerity, relaunch the economy and employment. And we did, we mobilized Portugal. We have mobilized our companies, started a path of convergence with the European Union, we have proven that Portugal is possible to be competitive, to have a prosperous and sustainable future.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u183	Inevitably our economic fabric had to slow down in 2020, but this government did not stop and immediately adopted extraordinary measures to support the economy, support for families, support for businesses, which we cannot ignore, cannot pretend that they did not exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am talking about measures such as layoff, measures such as bank moratoriums, measures to support recovery or fund-raisers, lines of credit with public guarantee, among others. They are measures that have prevented an avalanche of closures or insolvencys today with values below 2019, much due to the support measures that the State has made available to our companies. With the State budget proposal for 2022 - it is intended to continue to promote this dynamism - it is intended to continue to protect the country's productive capacity, it is intended to ensure that we resume a path of growth and competitiveness, with more income for our families and a consequent increase in private consumption, with more public investment, with maintenance of extraordinary support measures and the path of incentive to private investment. Private investment is crucial to resisting this crisis. With a stake in skills, knowledge, digitalization and innovation, we will certainly have more resilient, more sustainable and more competitive companies. Tax incentive for recovery will be one of the stimuli for this investment. But this Budget goes further, through the Portuguese Development Bank, through the Capitalization and Resilience Fund, with eyes placed in the Portugal 2030 Strategy. Mr Minister, I am re-enacting the question already put here by this bench — and that is what is at stake: will this Parliament be, will the banks that will vote against this budget be calling into question all the effort, all the development, all the work that has been done by the government and by the companies? They will be responsible for the delay in the economic recovery of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u184	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Jorge Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u185	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, for this reason, Mr Minister protects most sectors of the economy, namely industry, tourism, trade, services and digital transition. Yesterday, and today, those attending the budget debate find that several PS Members paint the pink country, so pink that PCP and Left Block distrust. Will it be the shock rose? Despite so much pink, they cannot hide the Real Country, workers, families and businesses. The real country where, over 2021, fuels increased 35 times, each week, reaching the 2 €/litre, a differential of 0, 40 €/litre against Spain, with substantial tax increases to the state. Electrical energy and natural gas achieve record values, with critical prospects for the next few months. The passenger and freight transport sector lives on a standstill, given the increase in fuel costs and the lack of drivers. The paper or textile industries equalise future investments as a result of increased energy, transport and strong market uncertainty. Trust problems persist in the country in the international travel sector, with serious implications for tourism, systematically forgotten by the government. With the worsening crisis in supply chains, the increase in raw materials costs in many areas reaches more than 50 % and delays in supply create new operational requirements for companies. Inflationary prospects, with central banks, investors and alert states, call into question — to be confirmed — the implementation of the PRR and the State budget for 2022. Mr Minister, all I am saying is economic, is the Portuguese economic reality, the day-to-day business and family. Here, in the face of silence and often the absence of the Minister for Economic Affairs, I leave some relevant questions. First question: where has Mr. Minister of Economy been? What support did Minister Siza Vieira put into the Budget to effectively support — I repeat, indeed — industry, trade, tourism, in view of the current context of the outlook for 2022? The PSD expects that they do not sum up support similar to the Adapting Tourism Programme 2021, which opened on 21 and closed on 22, which ran out of EUR 10 million and only managed to support 1061 companies that were able to apply. It is very little for the tens of thousands of companies in this sector, who claim support that never comes or that they always arrive late. Finally, to conclude, this budget, Mr Minister, like the previous ones, continues to maintain the indelible brand of the Government of the Socialist Party: finance at least, economics. Is this Government of the Socialist Party still taking place for a minister of the economy who is free to intervene in the service of the Portuguese economy or who is still a prisoner of the Minister of Finance? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u186	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Nuno Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u187	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister of State and Economic Affairs, what the Portuguese expect of us is a sense of responsibility, a capacity to improve their lives and to respond to their specific problems. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u188	Much has been said about lines and trenches, but today it will be clear who is in the field of solutions and who is dedicated to staging, who is not useful and who is useful to Portuguese. Employment is a priority for each Portuguese and the economy is the engine of job creation. By placing the Portuguese first, numbers show that we are on the right path. Despite the pandemic crisis, there is a constant trajectory of falling unemployment and increasing employment. The unemployment rate in 2022 is expected to fall to 6 %, reaching the lowest value since 2003. This budget clearly strengthens employability policies. at the same time, it prepares for economic recovery. Thus, parties voting against the State budget for 2022 must assume that they are voting against economic recovery and job creation. They vote against the priorities of the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They vote against, I would say, the Portuguese will! This budget is next to the Portuguese, and people don't understand those who don't support them or want everything or anything. We already realize that there are Members and Members who do not want to listen to, or examine government proposals, but do not hear the overwhelming majority of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, do you consider this budget to be the mirror of expectations and the hope of Portuguese people for the growth of the economy with decent work, raising the living conditions of all Portuguese people? This is the question which, out there, we are asked and this is the question that really matters to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u189	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u190	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, the Government has tabled a bill, which Parliament has approved, on the limitation of the marketing margin at all stages of the fuel value chain. And right now, the Energy Services Regulatory Entity (ERSE) is analyzing the impact that this can have on fuels. But in fact, the government has already taken measures to raise the price of fuels, and it has been the first country in Europe to do so. In any case, I would like to refer also to the matters mentioned by Mr Jorge Mendes — to say that we are indeed having a very significant increase in the cost of raw materials, fuel, transport prices. All of this has to do with the fact that the economy has been frozen for a few long months last year and is now seeking to compress the capabilities of the international system. at this moment, we are living temporarily—and exceptionally— cases of very significant increases. Indeed, over time, the government has been managing these situations. We have taken measures on electricity in a timely manner. A few months ago we heard the gentlemen. Members are very concerned about the rise in the cost of electricity to domestic consumers, and today we know that the price of electricity to domestic consumers will be reduced for the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Yesterday, I heard the Luxembourg Minister for Energy on television as an example of a market where the cost for domestic consumers will reduce their price. Above all, we have achieved a major reduction for industrial consumers, which is unpublished, structural, and it is very important. in these times, we will need to continue to be very careful to manage this difficult situation. But I would like to tell you, Mrs Isabel Pires and Mr Jorge Mendes, that this government has experience in managing difficult situations. There is no government in the history of our country that has had to deal with a total stoppage of the economy and with the closure of economic activities and that has been able to sustain employment, preserve the productive potential of companies and support the income of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u191	On the regulated market!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u192	We have a few more months ahead of us and we would be up to it if we could get a chance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to say, Mr Hugo Costa — and allow me to reply together to the honourable Members. Mr Nuno Sá and Mr Vera Braz — who, of course, will not approve of the Budget, will disturb, break up a little more what is the process of resumption of our economy. There are investment intentions that fall due to uncertainty—it is further uncertainty. We have uncertainty about the cost of raw materials, about how long fuel will be with these high prices, about where we have labour to meet our needs. And now we have another uncertainty adding to that. This, of course, will have an impact on the pace of our economic recovery. But I also wanted to tell you something else: on the part of the Government, on the part of the Minister of Economic Affairs, we will be here, as long as we are in office, to mitigate this and respond to the needs of businesses and economies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Bruno Dias, during these years, we have had an intense, frank and very open dialogue in Parliament. And you know perfectly well that on the part of this Minister, on the part of the Government, we never bought the argument that the rise of the national minimum wage had adverse effects on employment. On the contrary, we always said no...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u193	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u194	... and even during last year, when people said that this increase was very dangerous to employment and to businesses, we still advanced with an increase in the national minimum wage, maintaining the trajectory we had committed to at the beginning of the legislature. And it was worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u195	We were right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u196	We were right, as you were right! What I also sincerely want to say is this: it is very important that we can offer expectations of predictability and stability. We said at the beginning of this legislature that the national minimum wage would rise to up to 750 € in four years. People made their projections, their forecasts because of this, and we have to be able to do what we say. And we're keeping track is a win. Mr Deputy, since 2015, the national minimum wage in Portugal has increased by one third, 32 %. Germany is now going to increase by 25 %. But Germany has not increased the minimum wage for years! And we've already increased 32%! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will arrive at 750 € in 2023. And it will be an increase of about 50 %, more exactly 48 %. So we want to follow this path. But I want to tell you a second thing: if this government falls, if we give someone a chance to come here, those gentlemen on the right have already said that the national minimum wage is very high. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we are rejecting this Budget we are creating the opportunity for those who do not like the national minimum wage to increase, to exercise power. When we are rejecting the State budget, because it does not go far enough in the "destruction" of labour laws, we are giving an opportunity to those who have "troquisted" them, to those who want to return to change them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u197	There's the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u198	When we are rebutting this State budget, because we do not strengthen the SNS sufficiently, we are giving an opportunity to those who want to strengthen the national health system and use, as we have heard here, the installed capacity in Portugal, the private sector and the social sector. That's what we're doing. We therefore commit ourselves to a path to the national minimum wage, we commit ourselves to a path to strengthening the social state, we commit ourselves to a path to creating the best conditions for the economy to grow and create jobs. And he's creating a job. In fact, employment in Portugal is at the highest level ever. The average wage in Portugal, from 2015 to 2020, rose by 20 %. And right now, in the first six months of this year, the value of wages for work in Portugal is EUR 2100 million above what was in the first six months of 2019! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u199	And people are impoverished working!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u200	We are creating the conditions for more and better employment. And, by abusing time, Mr President, I will say the following: what it costs me most in this situation is that there is a segment of our workers who are systematically ignored in these discussions that we have here. We have made a proposal for a law on the Dignified Work Agenda to protect those who are precarious, those who work on platforms, those who live, years and years on the line, in temporary work companies with right term contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u201	They protect little and bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u202	These people deserve another attention. Last week, we met a study that says that of those born after 1990 — and we are talking about people aged between 20 and 30 — 60 % of them are in precarious work and cannot pass into a contract. That's what we need to talk about. That's what we need to deal with.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u203	Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u204	And the most important thing to me is that the proposed law of the Dignified Work Agenda expires if this House is dissolved, without even giving it a chance to discuss the labour laws. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u205	at this time, the Bureau does not have inscriptions, so I will ask the parliamentary groups, in increasing order, if they intend to spend the remaining time. Therefore, I begin by asking Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo whether he intends to use the word at this stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u206	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u207	The CDS Parliamentary Group also reports that it does not intend to use the word. I ask the PCP Parliamentary Group whether it is intended to use the amount of time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u208	Yes, Mr President, we intend to use this time. Mrs Ana Mesquita will make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u209	All right. Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP, therefore, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The existence of a properly structured public service of culture throughout the national territory is essential to democracy and is a right of all. The country really needs this to be a reality. As a guarantee of free artistic creation and cultural use, the State must ensure a strong component of public funding and ensure independence and autonomy in the creation of private interests or strict market logics and must also view culture as work. And work, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to work with rights. [[PCP applause.]] The centrality of labour issues, to which the CFP has always voiced, within and outside the Assembly of the Republic, and which has counted on the mobilization of thousands of workers of the arts and culture on the streets, was what pushed the Government to move forward with what has now been announced as the Staff Regulations of the Professionals of the Culture Area. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the precariousness in this area is grueling. As the CFP has always defended, it was urgent to eradicate precariousness in this area and in all areas. The question with regard to this Budget is that the consideration of the isolated measures does not erase the need for a more comprehensive and much more structural response, which goes through the proposals that the CFP defends and has presented and also at the level of what is the fight against precariousness in the arts and culture. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this cannot be done with a Statute which has worse standards than those of the Labour Code, or which takes advantage of the negative aspects of labour law. It cannot be done with a Statute that normalizes precariousness, ensuring that it continues, and will continue, to be cheaper to contract with precarious links. This Statute does not serve. Culture is work. And let's say again: work has to be with rights. What is needed is to guarantee work contracts with rights for all, increase wages and stamps, ensure stable contribution careers and regulate working hours. Finally, all that this Statute does not guarantee and that will continue to happen in the arts and culture. The country needs and the CFP proposes several measures. It's necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, take the culture out of zero and start by assigning it 1 % of the State budget, as well as ensuring the hiring of all the necessary workers and, in particular, as we have so many times already proposed in this House, at least 250 workers for the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage ( DGPC ) and for the regional direction of culture, and not, as it appears in the proposed State budget law, a cut in staff expenditure, in particular in DGPC. It is also necessary: the allocation of EUR 212 million for emergency interventions in cultural heritage; the full assumption of the operating costs of the Cinemateca and the support for cinema creation with general revenue from the Budget beyond the rates; the profound change in the scheme of allocation of support to the arts, effectively assuming artistic creation as a public service that needs to be stabilized and must be properly financed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government could have answered these questions, until they are not new, and there were proposals from the CFP to solve them. But the government has not done so, nor is there now a resolution for them in the State budget. The question in which we continue to insist and that we continue to leave is this: what concrete commitments will the Socialist Party assume to solve these problems? It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they were already here, and they were here a long time ago. These are problems that will continue beyond the discussion of the State budget. We therefore reaffirm that it must be clarified whether the Socialist Party will continue with the options it has taken in the Government or whether, on the contrary, it will adopt those proposed by the CFP in this area, which we have been presenting for so long, that we continue to defend and that we have been giving effective solutions to the situation of enormous precariousness, in particular in the arts and culture, and to the situation of enormous instability in the operation and financing of the public service of culture. These are proposals that we continue to put forward and that we will continue and certainly continue to defend today and in the future. And we reaffirm that all of this cannot be sidetracked from an option, also fundamental, that it is to remove the culture from the zero and assign 1% of the State budget to the culture. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u211	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u212	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than a budget debate, these two days have become an extensive motion of censure to the Government. And, as it all points out, the motion of censure to the Government of Antonio Costa will be approved and the State budget for 2022 will be rejected, and also by its former allies on the radical left. There is little time for management to reach the state of rigor mortis. Peace to your soul! [[PSD applause.]] Management was a contranature alliance. Survived, from jump-out, to the final assault. And it dies today, in the middle of the Azedum, of the mutual accusations and a feeling of irritability that will grow in the coming days, with insults to the mixture, which we have witnessed this morning, with the memos between Mrs Anne Catarina Mendes and the bench of the Block of Left. [[BE's protests.]] It's just the beginning! Let's remember: to save the skin of electoral defeat in the 2015 legislatures, Dr. António Costa, armed with political engineer, idealized it, built it, supported it, fed it, praised it, and finally hated it. Dr. António Costa says he's frustrated, but that's not true. Dr. António Costa today feels relieved. [[PSD applause.]] What about the country? What about the Portuguese? The country is worse and the Portuguese are, above all, stressed. The country and the Portuguese are more indebted. We are returning to our partners in the European Union and on the accelerated way to this infectious place, which is the tail of Europe. The other countries are moving forward, we're retreating. We are recovering economically from the pandemic crisis, it is true, but more slowly than the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u213	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u214	Public services do not work and do not respond to the needs of Portuguese in health, education, justice. The government says it never spent so much. Theoretically, it is true, but then the government is unable to implement the budgets that it has previously approved and has approved. The Budgets have become an account. Taxes reach unsustainable levels. What about social inequalities? Social inequalities are our liveliest chaga, a chaga that should shame us all. What about companies? Companies are abused and employers are seen in the public square.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u216	Management may not like businesses and entrepreneurs, but it is where employment is born, the wages that put bread at the Portuguese table and the financing of our social system, particularly pensions. [[PSD applause.]] The country is a bad figure in competitiveness, which is low and lowers us. Speaking in competitiveness, there is much to refer to the disastrous situation of the deployment of the 5G mobile telecommunications network. Portugal is abulic — I repeat, abulic, I have no other word! — the introduction of this technology, which is a future technology, essential for advanced telecommunications, essential for Portugal and the Portuguese to gain the future. The implementation and dissemination of 5G technology makes companies more modern and more competitive, the most effective public services and the most comfortable daily life and closer to the citizen. The other countries advance, implement, expand and disseminate their 5G telecommunications network, aware that this is the way to achieve success, and well-being in the future. We didn't even start. Stop, stop, stop! Last week — do you remember? — the Prime Minister laid down the responsibilities of this abula for ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), the regulatory entity of the sector. It is known that the Socialist Government hates independent regulatory entities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u217	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u218	...even when he swarms them with friends, family, comrades and ex-camera. [[PSD applause.]] It was then the regulator's fault. Don't! It is your fault, Mr. Prime Minister, twice yours. It is yours because by law, Mr. Prime Minister may propose the removal of this board of directors, which causes so much damage to the Portuguese. And it's yours because he chose, he proposed, he approved and appointed the president of ANACOM, Dr. Cadete de Matos, his chest friend. Talk to your friend Cadete. Tell him that he has to leave this abula, this state of doing nothing, that he has to « rope the shoes» and implement the basic telecommunications network for Portugal. Call your office today, if possible, and put an end to this shame, Prime Minister! Of course there is a problem: while the 5G auction is endlessly dragged into sight and the future of the Portuguese is compromised, Dr. Cadete, friend Cadete, bronze, dance and fun in the Caribbean, in Curaçau. All in a sweet do nothing, and we all pay for it, of course! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u219	Oh, my friends! Dr. António Costa's friends always grasp the state as if it were them, drawing and distributing charges, advantages, benefits between friends, family, comrades and former chambers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was true and known, from the first hour, that management brought the swamp into the belly. The economic swamp, translated, for example, into the backwardness of competitiveness. The social swamp, already visible on the streets, where the strikes multiply and infern the life of the common citizen. The swamp of values—for sure! — when any packmate prevails over the best. And the political swamp, which is in sight in the form of corpses that we're going to bury today. [[PSD applause.]] Whenever the Socialist Party rules, Portugal ends up buried in a swamp. It's a swamp that stops us from swamps. It was so with Antonio Guterres, with José Socrates and now with Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u220	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u221	What a strange coincidence! The three socialists, the three to rule for six years, the three to leave the Prime Minister in the middle of the second term, the three left her behind a swamp. Here, there is a doubt and certainty — and with this I finish. The question is about the size and specificity of the swamp that the country will, for the third time, inherit from the Government of the Socialist Party. Sure, for tomorrow and looking at the lessons of the past, it's the one that the Social Democratic Party will be here, available,... [[PS laughter.]] ... as always, to reemerge Portugal and give hope to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u222	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u223	Mr President, at the end of this debate there was still a reluctance of hope that Mr Adam Silva of the PSD would bring an idea, a proposal for the country, an alternative to this Budget, but brought « zero»! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Besides, this is also a good time, it's a good time, to remember what the PSD speech was a year ago. [[Continued PSD protests and PS counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u224	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all of you, for another minute and a half before the final statements, to remain calm during these two days. Please continue, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u225	Mr. President, he said this is a good time and a good time to remember that the PSD was affixed to the total failure of the State budget by 2021 when Dr. Rui Rio prophesied a corrective budget, which did not come true; when he prophesied the failure of the National Health Service, saying that it would not be able to respond to the pandemic, but failed;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... when he prophesied that rising national minimum wage would increase unemployment, and failed; when he prophesied that the State budget for 2021 would not increase public investment, and failed, because public investment has increased above government forecasts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] This PSD failed the country and failed in its forecasts, Dr. Rui Rio, because it was exactly the State Budget for 2021 that managed to mobilize measures to protect employment, to protect income, to support companies, so that Portugal would resume the path of economic recovery. That is why our economy is the one that is growing, at this time, in Europe... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and that's why our active population is in higher numbers than we had before the pandemic. Mr President, Prime Minister, we are minutes from the vote of the State budget and this is a left-wing budget,... [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u226	... with significant advances in the areas that have always joined the Left Block, the PCP, the ENP and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u228	Areas such as wage valuation, fiscal relief for middle classes and lower income, the greatest ever increase in family allowance, the greatest increase in national minimum wage. They are areas that have always united us, but the rejection of the State budget will mean that all these measures will fall and will not advance, which is bad news for families, bad news for businesses, bad news for the economy and above all bad news for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u229	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on the agenda, on the general debate on the proposal for a State Budget Bill for 2022, and we are going to move on to the next item, which is the closing stage of this same debate. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u230	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate of the State budget in general, a budget which, from a short time from now on, will fall, opening the way to new elections. The Liberal Initiative wants to address this intervention to those Portuguese who can face this moment with apprehension. To these Portuguese, we want to say with confidence and clarity that they should not be afraid that they will have an opportunity to decide on the political path they want to follow from now on. For the sake of the country, it must be said that a better path is possible. To these Portuguese, we mean that we have arrived here because management has become exhausted in its own contradictions. This, Mr. Prime Minister, is not just a frustration of yours, it is even a defeat of yours, which in 2015 he thought he could rule eternally with the extreme left without it demanding, sooner or later, the unacceptable. We came here too, because, even with the partners of the extreme left, who were sworn of love, the PS government failed to comply with what it promised. And we arrived here because the PS government presented a bad budget, the most left of all, and soon accepted it to make it even worse. But not even accepting makes it even worse, in a very bad budget to the left, managed to make it pass. We have already watched the depressing spectacle of the guilt-step between the undecided management, attempting to shake responsibility for the state to which we arrived. The Portuguese will not be deceived by this deresponsibility maneuver. It is the left, all of it, that is responsible for this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u232	To these Portuguese, we want to say that the elections that will take place will also be an opportunity to penalize those who behave like this, will be an opportunity to choose a new course for the country, and to choose it already. Portugal cannot continue stagnant and without growing, it cannot be hostage of communists, bloggers or other extremists, it cannot continue to feed this socialist model of state dependence. Portugal cannot force its best young people to emigrate in search of a life. Portugal has to change its course, it has to change its chip, it has to change its app. Portugal has to uninstall socialism and install more liberalism, because more than an upgrade, it is a real transformation that the Liberal Initiative represents. This is to build a country in which power goes out of the state and is returned to people, so that they are increasingly free to decide what they want to do with their lives, with their time and money, whether in work, politics or private life, so that their desires depend only on their will, effort and merit. That is the choice that the Liberal Initiative represents, that is the choice that the Portuguese will freely have to make, knowing that in the Liberal Initiative they have the key to the solution, the key to uninstalling socialism, the key for the Portuguese to have more freedom and more opportunities, the key to a more liberal future.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u233	For the time being, Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was the budget for socialist convergence. And it is! Because since 2004 the 10 Eastern countries that joined the European Union have surpassed us in GDP and economy. It was this budget that the largest government in Europe had to give to Portugal. The purchasing power of Portuguese is today worse than 11 years ago and any Polygraph can go tomorrow to confirm that this is true: it is today worse with this Government than it was 11 years ago in Portugal. This large left-wing majority has given us the greatest impoverishment that Portugal has ever seen in recent years. But it is also very curious that such a left-wing budget does not only use the word 'teacher' in its document. There is not a single stimulus to the passion of education that this Prime Minister had so much and said. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The Budget, which was culture, can drop the budget of culture to Portugal. The culture, which the left-wing partners both claimed, comes down in this State Budget as a poor relative of socialist governance! The anti-corruption budget was able to have something unpublished in Portugal : the Director of the CIAP comes to the public saying that he has no means, no way to fight corruption and end the government. This is what they achieved, with six or seven years of management and six or seven years of socialist pacts. This budget deepens the state and public customers, who live on our behalf, without being able to give a signal to families and businesses, who at the moment needed our support, needed our encouragement. We continue to give everything to everyone, we continue to support the same as ever and those who do not want to do anything at all, with a Subsidy Budget which, I hope, the Portuguese will soon have the opportunity to penalize properly. But those who have worked, those who have worked hard, the families who now needed support, see the socialist government in the hands of the extreme left turn their faces and tell them that they don't want anything with them. It is the tax on fuel, which they had said there was not, it is the water, it is all that are goods of first need... we look at this budget and we realize that the government takes one side and goes to find the other. It's the Balance Budget, which will want to go one way to get the other. But «the other» are always the same: they are the Portuguese who work, who strive and seek to make a better life; they are the Portuguese who are full of this system and who, sooner or later, will have to get rid of it, when called to the polls in Portugal. This government dies in Parliament today. No one will miss so many people sitting in these chairs. This parliamentary majority will die today in this Parliament, and this management which has ruled us today will also die. Antonio Costa now goes after his dream, the dream that one day took José Socrates in search of the absolute majority. But the Portuguese people are very wise and there is a saying that God sleeps, but does not sleep. The arrival will not sleep and we will be here to resist and continue to fight so that those fantasies of « fascism never again» and « right no more», are replaced by what is relevant in Portugal, which is « socialism never again»! So the Portuguese people are called to the polls and so we can decide our future in peace!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u235	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : Today we are called upon to debate and decide on one of the most important instruments of governance — the State budget. The Greens look at this moment as an opportunity. An opportunity to ensure the responses to the height of the universe and the gravity of the problems that the country and the Portuguese currently live, many of which the pandemic has come to deepen. In particular, responses are required with regard to climate change mitigation, investment in public transport, with a high priority for rail, depollution of rivers and banks, the removal and treatment of environmental liabilities, the fight against poverty, the dignity of working conditions, the substantial improvement of public services, the guarantee of conditional housing conditions, the commitment to sustainable national production, in particular as regards family and biological agriculture. at this moment, having passed the tighter curve of the pandemic, temporarily with lower conditionalities of the European Union and with the billions that the Prime Minister has not been tired of announcing in recent months, the Greens expected the Government to budget 2022 capable of giving robust answers to the set of difficulties that we have gone through and that require urgent action. As at the time of the delivery of the document, The Greens became public, the State Budget for 2022, as it was presented and with the audacious additions announced here, it is far from giving the necessary answers, in view of the size of the problems. We also had the opportunity to point out that it is absolutely incomprehensible that, with a growth in the economy of 5, 5 %, this growth is not felt in the guarantee of more quality of life for Portuguese, at the level of their purchasing power, of public services or of better environmental standards. It is because, if it is not when the economy is growing that people's purchasing power is recovered and seriously invested in public services, particularly in the National Health Service and in collective transport, then it will never be time to improve the living conditions of the Portuguese and to take care of our natural resources. On the other hand, even though the government is more free from the constraints and limitations imposed by the European Union, the government insists on raising the deficit race to the guiding light of this budget, compromising the emerging response to the country's problems. It is a proposal for a State Budget which, in our view, has no point in it. Despite this initial evaluation framework, the Greens did not give up finding solutions that would enable substantial improvement and the consequent viability of the Budget. A serious commitment to dialogue with the Government, bringing five axes to the Executive that we considered to be absolutely structural in order to respond to the problems of the country and Portuguese: halting climate change; cleaning the country and taking care of our water resources; combating poverty; ensuring public services for all; betting on national production. We subsequently implemented these axes with 15 proposals — three for each axis — for the Government to assess and tell us what it would be willing to receive or consider and, depending on the availability expressed by the Government, we can take a reflection with a view to building the sense of vote by the Green Party. The response to our proposals, which came, as the people say, late and late, above all, to their content, revealed, however, a notorious lack of the Government's will to seek solutions, at least with the Greens. The fact is that the Government only welcomed one of our proposals and expressed a vague openness to partially welcome two others. With an aggravating effect, on our proposals for combating poverty and the need to ensure public services, not a word. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the beginning: we came to this debate with the awareness of its importance and considering that it was an opportunity. We know that people who continue without a family doctor should have answers here today. The absence of government commitments deepens our concern. We know that the environment needs another impetus in promoting public transport. The Prime Minister's silence on the question which I put to him yesterday on the free movement of public transport up to the age of 18 says a lot about the government's will. They fill their mouths with climate change, but concrete measures only if they are required. We are aware that teachers who, years and years, are placed hundreds of miles away from their homes, would expect to know today that the Assembly of the Republic would guarantee them support for displacement and relocation. The government has heard muskets. The thousands who are unable to get work, but who do not have access to unemployment benefit, would expect the Government to accept the Greens proposal to extend for another six months the social benefit created in the pandemic. The government waved to the side. The small and medium-sized farmers, with their arms increasing production costs and the numerous difficulties in draining their products, would have legitimate expectations to see included in the Budget the requirement of 5 %, I repeat, 5 %, of the supply of public canteens in agricultural products become originating in Portuguese family agriculture in 2022, to reach 2027 to 30 %, or of the promotion of short circuits of proximity and local markets, ensuring the disposal of products from family and/or organic farming and establishing fair prices in the first sale. What did the government do? He jumped forward and, on the need to set fair prices in the first sale, not a word. With all responsibility, we extend our hand to the government, give the government an opportunity. Not to save him, but to answer the problems of the Portuguese. The government has hidden behind the so-called 'true accounts' with the European Union to continue to postpone the necessary solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u237	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u238	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. With this, the problems will flow and the accounts will become more and more uncertain. You are uncertain about the accounts of the Portuguese and uncertain about the accounts of the Budgets. Not finding in this State budget robust answers to the main problems with which Portuguese and the country confront and not contemplating measures that promote or guarantee more social justice and sustainable development for the country, the Greens Ecological Party, with the full sense of responsibility votes against the State budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u239	We must respect the times, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u240	Tomorrow, as we have always done, we will continue the fight for this country better than we do not give up, a more just and sustainable country. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u241	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u242	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: This debate on the State budget was a measure of force, a view of who gives first and a way to serve party interests. That is all that should not be, because we are deciding the future of people, their quality of life, their well-being. We are deciding on structural aspects such as health, justice, housing, education, environmental and animal protection measures. However, common sense has not at any time prevailed in this debate! The NAP presented itself in this budget debate with a position responsible for dialogue and negotiation with the government, and did so precisely because the country needs answers. We know that this budget, as many others have already brought here the discussion, is far from perfection or consensus that we would like to achieve. But we also know that those who choose to resign themselves from what was elected resign from work which, in democracy, should be a joint work. And this attitude results in such a delay in the immediate responses that people need. And the country, out there, can't wait. We say and repeat: the Assembly of the Republic must not miss the same country that said present when the moment so demanded. To oppose is not only to vote against, it is also to know how to work together for better solutions for the country. There was already anyone here who thought to cooperate in the search for solutions was 'wolve Parliamentary folklore'. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we saw yesterday and today, yes, is the true 'worship of parliament', which adds nothing to the country. At the end of this debate, what will each Member and Member elected to the Assembly of the Republic choose for our country, choose for all the people who are out there, waiting for solutions, of which must be the House of Democracy? Is it a suspended country? A country marked by insecurity? The postponement of Community funds? The postponement of the answers when the moratoriums come to an end? There have been several reasons for rejecting the State budget, when the real reason is just to maintain political sectarianism and satisfy party customers! Instead of building bridges, the political forces who have committed themselves to building walls will also be responsible for the disastrous scenario that precedes the country with the decision that is seen here. Only the specialized process can enable us to make the changes that we consider relevant to the Budget, making it a fairer budget at the social, environmental and intergenerational level, approaching the budget that the country needs. Or is it, after having the stability of the compromised country, due to an unprecedented crisis, the best that this House has to give to people is simply to lay the towel on the floor? Oh, my God! Is it leaving the boat? Oh, my God! Is it leaving a country in suspense? Oh, my God! What we're saying to people out there is precisely to forget the hospital they need so much. Family doctor? No, you won't! Living in houses where you die cold? No, we're not giving any answers. We are telling the younger generations that we will not continue to combat climate change, no, we will not ensure the necessary energy transition that is fundamental to the country, or, less so, to end the tax bubbles that the large polluters continue to benefit. What's the alternative? Oh, my God! The alternative, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for some of this House, it is about giving stage and praising the rise of anti-democratic political forces that are growing in the country. [[PAN and PS applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Make it clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, for the NAP, give space to those who think that the road passes through the bet on polluting solutions, such as individual transport, unlimited consumption of natural resources, including fossil fuels, is not what we want for the country. If this shambar budget is already in general there are such important advances in structural matters as public transport, which will be on the way, including the EUR 1800 million planned to clear the historical debt of CP ( Portugal Trains ) which has led to the degradation of the company and the railway year after year. What's the alternative? Back to the policies of Passos and Portas, which put an end to the social passes, to the universal social passes for all students, who privatized profitable public companies, as is the aberrant case of the CTT (Emails of Portugal ), or who sent our generation to emigrate and not to be fold? Oh, my God! No, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the NAP, this is not the alternative. [[PAN and PS applause.]] This is also the Budget which, by negotiation, as claimed by the NAP, can guarantee the increase in the national minimum wage, can revise the steps of IRS, in order to increase the income of the middle class, and provide for a new regime of IRS that opens up young people, in particular workers with green receipts. What's the alternative some people want to bring to this house? A Liberal Initiative that rejects the redistributive and social function of the IRS and feeds the dream of a single rate of IRS,... [[PAN and PS applause.]] ...that would lead the rich to pay less taxes and the poorest to pay more? Oh, my God! No, don't count on the PAN for that! [[PAN and PS applause.]] The truth is that, as a result of the work of the NAP, it can and should be a strengthening budget for the fight against corruption and for an inclusive regime that ensures greater taxation of income related to tax havens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u243	Come together, come together!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u244	It is true that, despite the effort and insistence of the NAP, this is not yet the Budget which finally welcomes the abolition of such important materials as the transport of live animals, the end of support for Tauromachy or the end of support for pig husbandry. [[PSD and CH protests.]] But the NAP will not lower its arms in the fight for these causes. Furthermore, if this Budget has already resulted in significant advances in different matters, such as ensuring greater investment in animal protection, one of the important demands for the NAP, and the extension of rules in the Penal Code on animals, if this Leading Budget will in fact be a Budget that will see you die on the beach advances in animal protection. Those who in this and previous legislation have despised environmental and animal protection themes, which have been the voice of the lobby of Tauromachic marialvism and the interests of the great livestock, what will they say after all? With all these weaknesses that the Budget has, we must not fail to recognize that this is also a budget that allows for progress in human rights, with the strengthening of housing solutions for homeless people, with the provision of protection measures and measures to prevent and combat domestic violence, gender violence, with measures to combat racism and discrimination and with more support and follow-up of girls victims of child marriage. If this shambar budget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u245	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u246	I really am concluding, Mr President. If this shambar budget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions: the achievements in the path of human rights will remain in the drawer! And let it be clear that for the NAP, the central block or bipartisanization that has oscillated in the arc of power is not the solution. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the left and the Government, when they do not give up, resigning themselves to fight for a better budget in the specialty, are no longer doing more than extending the red pass to the rise of antidemocratic populism in our country, to those who treat poverty as a matter of laziness and promote exclusion and persecution rather than inclusion. [[PAN and PS applause.]] And no, they won't count on the NAP so it can grow the extreme right in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u247	Come together! Come together!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u248	The PAN knows what he wants, but also knows what he doesn't want and who he doesn't want to walk with and the setbacks he doesn't want to watch. [[PSD protests.]] The NAP is aware of how much this sense of vote will weigh on the lives of people, on the welfare of animals, on the environmental goals and possibly on the fates of our democracy. That is why we are going to make this budget, generally because of abstention, and when we get up to vote, we are going to do so alongside people, the country and the rule of democratic law. [[PAN and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u249	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will open the registration period for quorum purposes for voting. However, for an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u250	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister said here that he was very proud to have broken with the so-called governance arch. Because the archer, Prime Minister, was called governance for a reason and that is precisely why hemorrhage in a government with the support of the most radical left has led Portugal to an objective situation of ingovernability.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u252	When we are still coming out of a pandemic, management cannot even approve a State budget. Management likes the winds of fiction. When things become difficult or when there are signs of turns in an autarchic, quickly each one goes to his side, with more electoral concerns than traces of any sense of state. Portugal now needed everything, of all things, less from a political crisis and it is regrettable that the Portuguese have to reap the storm sown by the winds of the opportunism of management.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u254	Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS leaves here as a party whose arrogance has become unable to understand whoever it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u255	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u256	It is also now time to draw conclusions from this governance and to look at the marks of disgraceful coalition that made it possible. First brand of governance of management: the transformation that made politics and budgets into genuine auctions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u257	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u258	... with the partners competing for the nice measures to put out and blame the partner on the side when something went less well or when they were more difficult, and all, but even everyone, to pretend that it is possible for the state to give everything and that the state has any resources other than those that remove the citizens. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The second brand is as follows: Portugal is today one of the slowest countries to recover from the pandemic. More than eight Member States have already recovered their pre-pandamia GDP in 2021, Ireland, Luxembourg, Estonia, Romania, Lithuania, Denmark, Hungary, Poland and Latvia, and it is expected that at least four of them will arrive before the end of the year. For Portugal, the government believes that the recovery of pre-pandamia wealth already in 2022 is an ambitious goal. We are one of the last to recover from the pandemic is, for this government, an objective and a great ambition. It is the portrait of the years of management that has never understood that it is not possible to distribute wealth without first creating wealth and is also the portrait of a country that continues to be exceeded by GDP per capita by the countries of the former European East, who have learned with many sacrifices what costs the revenue that in Portugal some of the parties that have made this management still wish unfortunately to apply. Third mark of the governance of management: constant juggling. First of all, the banalisation of captives and drawers full of commitments never given by the finance, not as instruments of budgetary implementation, but as a real budgetary error. Deception, indeed, for the PCP and for the Left Block, who worshiped for years and budgets to be deceived. Then, the increases in indirect taxes, the creativity, without limits, of taxes and taxis, passing through everything, from sugar, forests and packaging take away.In a country like Portugal, with at least 3,500 fees charged by only 25 public entities, the attitude of management was always: "it is not yet enough, more and more and more fees and taxes are needed. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u259	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u260	A government that began with an increase in taxes, the overtax of gas oil and gasoline, a government that began with an increase in ISP, where it soon paid more than 300 million euros only in 2016, is presented here today more than five years later, with the disembarkation that it will return, with the help of the scheme of VATucher, less than half of that, it is known when.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u262	Meanwhile, Portuguese families always hope that they will have to fill the fuel tank to go to work. A government that promised an IRS drop in the election campaign, but then adjourned it during the pandemic; a government that promised changes in retention tables at the source but that continued to charge more EUR 2800 million to the Portuguese, even for a year as difficult as 2020 ; finally a government that always boasts of certain accounts but that hides that primary expenditure, without emergency measures, neither punctual, i.e. without the effect of the pandemic and without exceptional effects, which increased from EUR 84 billion in 2019 to EUR 98 billion in 2022, i.e. almost 4 percentage points of GDP, transformed Portugal into an economy that grows very little, but the state never to grow more and more and more. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, neither politics nor governments nor budgets have to be this and I am sure that Portugal can be much more. From this Budget will not pray the story. of it the most that will be said is that it marks the moment when Mr. Prime Minister turned his face to the economy to turn himself into ideology, in which the radical left imposed his utopia in the face of the minimum of realism, in which the country observes that this majority, it is the fault of whoever is and those who try to assign it, fell and fell exclusively by their own hands and therefore does not deserve a second opportunity from Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u263	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : We have done this budget debate in the same way and with the same objectives as we have discussed it with the Government in recent months. We know the difficulties that the country is experiencing, we know the difficulties of our people and the problems it faces on a day-to-day basis and we know that there are solutions and possibilities for realising, there is political will to do so. It is because of the overall response to the national problems that we beat and it was based on the solutions to achieve it that we intervene decisively. We refuse and will refuse to replace this debate with a script of sentences to see who is more or less responsible for the outcome of the vote on this budget. This may even render a good script for the electoral disputes of 2023, but that is not what solves the problems of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]] In the fight for the general increase in wages and the revocation of the expiry of collective bargaining, the fight for the strengthening and defence of the SNS and other public services, the fight for the increase in pensions and free day care, the right to housing, for more fiscal justice, for the public control of companies and strategic sectors, for the dynamisation of our economy and for support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and in so many other matters, I beat us for these solutions as necessary as possible and unacceptable. Yes, necessary, possible and unacceptable solutions. Even those who doubt their possibility today have a clear idea that, at the time when so many millions are announced, the country has conditions that enable it to realize the solutions it needs. during the discussion we were not determined to claim everything or nothing, everything already or never again. We have made up to the limit of our possibilities a serious effort to find the necessary solutions. We started from a proposal to increase the national minimum wage to €850 in the short term, but we admitted the possibility of starting the year 2022 with a value of 755, reaching €800 at the end of the year. We defend the revocation of the expiry of the collective contract, but we admit that it will continue for now with its permanent suspension. We started from a proposal for a general increase of 1, 8 % with a minimum of 10 € and the freeness of daycare for all children in 2022, but we admitted to making the discussion considering the proposals in the meantime put forward by the Government for each of these matters. In no way has there been intransigence, inflexibility or refusal of discussion on the part of the CFP. But it was not in our hands to give the answer that only the government could give. It has been in the hands of the Government, even in recent days, the possibility of giving the answer that was missing so that the discussion on all the decisions to be taken could continue. during the debate, we did this challenge repeatedly. The lack of such a response reveals the option made by the Government. This lack of response obviously weighs on the fate of this budget proposal, but it is particularly despite the reflection that we will have to continue to make on the conditions that need to be created so that national problems can be solved. Because with this budget proposal or without it, the problems continue here to solve and the country needs its solution. The example of SNS measures is perhaps the one where it becomes more difficult to understand the government option. When we deal with the SNS, we are dealing with urgent measures that save the public service from the assault that is being done by the economic groups of the disease, who seek, doctor, service, dismantle the SNS and liquidate their response capacity. We are talking about measures that prevent this assault from having a tremendous negative impact in the short term that in some cases is already felt. The PCP advocated solutions for the hiring and fixing of professionals, for the valorization, integration and progression in the careers of all health professionals, for the realization of an exclusive commitment regime, for the autonomy of health units in the hiring of workers and in the conduct of investments, for the improvement of user access to consultations, treatments, examinations and surgeries, for the strengthening of investment in buildings and equipment. In the objectives that he stated, the Government indicated that it agreed with the CFP, shared these concerns and even considered the solution of some of the problems for which the CFP has been alerting for years. While there was a lack of evidence of the government's concrete commitments so that these measures could start to be implemented from 1 January, the answer we had was formulations of regulatory promises by March 2022. And we all know what the promises of future regulation mean, with the failure to comply with deadlines, delays, the limitation of the scope of what is regulated. during the debate, the Government and the PS insisted on repeating the list of proposals and commitments made as a result of the CFP. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, we know the value of these proposals. It was because we knew the value of each one who beat us for them. What cannot and should not be done is to devalue each one, considering it alone and disarranged from the set of solutions to national problems. The result of this devaluation by avulse consideration is obvious if we look at concrete examples of its consequences. Some pensioners would have an increase of €10, which to date never had, but would continue due to the increase in household income or health costs because the government did not want to consider the response to housing or SNS problems. Free day care centres could have new elements of advancement, but the lack of vacancies would continue to be a challenge in the lives of families because the government does not want to move forward with the creation of a public day care network assumed as such. And the parents of children who still managed to take a break on a day-care centre would still have to deal with the precariousness of work, the deregulation of working hours, the difficulties in access to housing, because also in these matters the government did not want to make commitments. [[PCP applause.]] When the CFP advocates a comprehensive response to the national problems in which the Budget should be included, that is what we are talking about: a global response that identifies the problems and seeks to answer them, in a general view and not a list of which some measures may be highlighted alone, especially when this logic of avulsive consideration results in the feeling of the people being given one hand and taking it away with the other. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: Workers and the Portuguese people have elements in the CFP's intervention in this debate which, in any event, with or without an approved budget, would serve and serve in the future as a reference for the construction of the response to national problems. There are solutions and the CFP fights for them, and that is what we should have achieved in this budget debate. Since there has not been a response from the Government to that assurance that there is this overall response defended by the CFP, the CFP cannot be asked to abandon its struggle and the workers and the people to its fate. If the concrete expression that our intervention takes today is more demanding than it was in the past is because the country's situation is itself more demanding, it is because many of the problems have evolved as a result of the government's refusal of solutions that could have long been achieved. We will continue to prioritize the alternative policy that we defend with the concrete solutions that implement it. We will continue on the right side of the struggle, alongside the workers and the people because it is with them and with the defense of their rights and interests our first and main commitment. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u265	Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u266	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has spent two days repeating that this is the leftmost budget ever. The phrase is so hollow that even to the right it repeated it and did not resist the facts. The budget proposal, even if added from the advertisements of the last few days, maintains an anemic investment, does not stop the deterioration of the SNS nor the loss of purchasing power for the generality of wages and pensions. The investment promise is now to do what was already planned in previous budgets, but the increase does not reach even one third of what has yet to be implemented since 2016. Health is the sector with more great ads. Promises of previous years are repeated for 2022, with zero or very low execution rates, such as those of the hospitals of Seixal, Setúbal and Évora. While projects that have been included in previous budgets such as Barcelos, Algarve and Beja are forgotten, there is the emulsion of investments that we all already know will not happen. The most charged will be the promise of execution in 2022 million euros to equip a hospital, Eastern Lisbon, whose construction has not even begun. The lowest pensions will remain below the poverty threshold, while the rest lose purchasing power, under inflation that will be much higher than the government recognises: in September it was already 1, 48 % and prices, from energy onwards, continue to increase. the state workers are also asked to continue to lose. The increase of 0, 9 % is irrelevant in view of the accumulated loss of 10 % of the purchasing power, but not only. It is ironic in view of the budgetary possibilities: the net value of the increase proposed to public servants — EUR 128 million — is little higher than the seal tax that EDP ceased to pay for the sale of six dams in December 2020. These choices do not have anything left-handed, nor are they responding to the country's problems, and they are inexplicable because the moment should even be of change. In Europe, the Stability Pact rules are suspended and the various governments present recovery and investment budgets. By contrast, the Portuguese Government presents a containment budget, wasting the time of relief from European pressure and the majority in Parliament for lasting measures for the economy and society. The bazouca, based on so many ads, has no correspondence in the Budget. After months of negotiations, this government gap remains incomprehensible. To say that the Block is intransigent is as useless and as credible as saying that SNS professionals are attacking the government when they alert to the unsustainable situation they are in. The Government has brought nothing new to this debate. The Prime Minister has only invoked a certain government document where the reasons for the rejection of each of the nine Bloc proposals are finally explained. The document has not circulated, but I have had the opportunity to read and it is disappointed that the reasons for rejection remain a well-kept secret by Mr. Prime Minister. What is the danger of returning to the rule that lasted a century on the payment of overtime? No answer! Or do we accept the PS's own proposal for dismissal compensation? Quiet! Or the 25-day holiday threshold per year? The government has no answer. Only in one case did the government launch a justification: playing the sustainability factor is killing the pension system. Now, we have already finished with the sustainability factor for almost all cases. There are few cases left and the enormous injustice of a person aged 64 and 43 years of contributory career to have a higher pension than a person aged 63 and the same 43 years of discount. In health, the government does not justify the refusal of the Block's proposals either. Worse: its counter-proposals are a retreat against what the Health Bases Act provides together. But I ask Mr Prime Minister : did you really think you could convince us that the solution to the lack of professionals is a payment to whom you make the equivalent of three additional months of extraordinary work? Instead of attracting more people to the SNS, is the solution to overload who is already exhausted with more hours? Oh, my God! The government could not be expecting us to continue to watch the private SNS drainage when we have already exceeded one million users without a family doctor. I know that the PS does not like listening, but I will repeat: we are faithful to the proposal Arnaut-Semedo ; careers in the SNS should be exclusively, well paid and with all the responsibility that it is to care for those who need it. The Government says that the labour law should not be negotiated within the framework of the State budget. But not out of the Budget either, because there the PS always uses its vote to prevent the removal of the troika of labour laws. Of course, in the absence of a legislative agreement, as proposed and rejected, it is within the framework of the adoption of the Budget that creates the conditions for the viability of a minority government. The Government had accepted the proposal of Arnaut and Semedo for the exclusiveness of the health professions, had fulfilled what the PS itself has already defended for early retirement or redundancies and would have the agreement of the Left Block for this State Budget. But the Prime Minister did not move forward, preferred to open a political crisis, broke all bridges, rejected all proposals and preferred, yesterday, to return to the unfortunate speech of the campaign, promising millions everywhere, packed for early elections. I know that in Budgets there are abundant promises and convenient dramallions. Do you remember last year? If payment to the New Bank was subject to prior verification, it would be an atomic bomb! Where's the deputy who said it was an atomic bomb? Where is the minister who said he was going to complain to the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Administrative Court? We've heard of everything. That is why we prefer solutions to promises. The informal caregivers have already heard of millions by 2020 and 2021, but only less than 2 % of the funds have been used. The millions have forgotten people. Cultural workers look at incredulouses for a budget without allocation for intermittent protection and where they are no more than 0, 5 % for culture after the Prime Minister's promise that this legislation would reach not 1 %, but even 2 % of the Budget for Culture. Retirement of the rocks continues with cuts in pensions which the last Guarantee Budget recalculates. Workers with disabilities, such as those working for shifts or night work, after successive studies promised, continue without any solution that anticipates their reform. The people who work or receive pensions, people who are not numbers, are so often forgotten in the middle of so many million unemployed. These people, who are not numbers, are our obligation and our mandate. We have therefore submitted only nine essential proposals. It was our starting point. There was a commitment in these matters, and here we would be working on many other issues. As we said yesterday, there would be a lot to do. It remains unacceptable to lose more than 700 million euros in tax benefits for Nordic reformers when those who worked here pay their IRS. It is still unacceptable that the income paid to energy giants makes the price of electricity exorbitant for families and businesses exorbitant. It's just that we need a way of compromise. That's how we managed. We have made a contract for four years, a written agreement that the Prime Minister has issued in this legislature. We have worked for months on each Budget, we have fulfilled what has been promised, nothing that has now been seen. Management was killed by obsession by the absolute majority,... [[PS protests.]] ... by refusing to give SNS professional careers, terms of employment and planned investments, by the intransigence that keeps troika in labor laws. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But management was not wasted time, it was time gained. It is therefore a certainty today that I want to repeat clearly in front of the whole country: we will fight. We will fight for a majority for a decent health for everyone, for a democracy that protects social security,... [[PS protests.]] ... by wages and jobs without precaution — measures the country needs and which respond to by the people. The Left Block has always been a solution, defended solutions, is ready for solutions and knows they make their way. This is our mandate, we will not miss. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u267	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u268	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote against the PSD on the proposal for a State budget for 2022 is consistent with the criticism that we have always made to the economic and budgetary policy of the Governments of António Costa. It is a wrong and erratic economic and budgetary policy, which gives no hope for a better future for Portuguese, especially for younger people. It is a wrong economic policy, because it has never been focused on improving the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy or increasing productivity. Economic growth in the years prior to the pandemic has always been lower and lower than most of the Member States of the European Union, especially those of our eastern competitors. In 2020, the national economy had a breakdown of its gross domestic product of 8, 4 % higher than the European average. Now, for 2021 and 2022, in the document we are voting on today, the government presents economic growth that is no longer the mere recovery from the 2020 collapse. But Portugal did not only have a higher GDP breakdown than most European countries, it also has one of the slower recoveries, and only by the end of 2022 will we have recovered the 2019 level. It is a slow and late recovery, but even more serious, it is a recovery that is based solely on domestic demand, through private consumption and public expenditure. The contribution of external demand, particularly exports, i.e. the contribution of our international competitiveness, is virtually null and void. Thus, the external accounts and the indebtedness of the country vis-à-vis the outside are aggravated, which was precisely the main element that determined the historic and humiliating kneeling of Portugal in 2011. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u269	This makes it worse the wrong model that the Socialist Party defends and that is the reverse of what Portugal really needs: a growth based, above all, on investment and exports. [[PSD applause.]] Even more overwhelming are the forecasts for economic growth in the medium term. We will return to a standard below 2 %, which is clearly insufficient not to delay any further with regard to Europe and to avoid being exceeded in our standard of living by even more countries in eastern Europe. It is, above all, insufficient growth to generate wealth that allows better wages, better pensions, better social support and more efficient public services. All of this also stems from the government's inability to start the structural reforms that the country needs and that the PSD has so much claimed. Cantoned on his left hand and seized by power, giving in to what he can and cannot, the Government has been rejecting all proposals from various political, economic and social quadrants that would improve the competitiveness of the economy and increase our potential growth in the medium and long term. The Socialist Party, with the political option of placing itself on the total dependence of the radical left, has become the face of immobilism and statism which have condemned the country to stagnation and impoverishment. [[PSD applause.]] Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Government has been waiting for the European miracle, without any concern to govern with structural responses, waiting for the PRR to solve all the country's problems, waiting for a bazouca shot to bring about the miracle of recovery and economic growth. However, the numbers are unequivocal and demonstrate that the PRR will not structurally transform the Portuguese economy. The opportunity will be lost and Portugal will continue to step up with mediocre growth if this policy is not reversed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u270	But, as I said, we have also had an erratic economic policy since 2015 in an obvious imbalance between the purchase of the votes of the PCP and the Left Block and the maintenance of our European commitments. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It is an erratic economic policy that does not have any strategic coherence or long-term viability, it only has the conjunctural concern that every year it will achieve the approval of the State's budgets in a completely avulden way. It was obvious that it had to bring bad results. The PSD warned, sometimes without account, that the fiscal consolidation between 2016 and 2019 was merely conjunctural, that the excess saying did not have structural sustainability, that the reduction of the deficit between 2016 and 2019 did not have any merit in terms of active government policy and that it was based on mere point factors. [[PSD applause.]] It was based on the monetary policy of the ECB ( European Central Bank ) and on a weak economic growth based on tourism, real estate, cuts in public investment, famous captives and increases in tax burden. Between 2016 and 2021, the Government enjoyed an annual strike in public debt interest of EUR 3000 million. What has the government done with this gift from Europe? Nothing! Or rather, he spent and distributed. He looked exclusively at the present, with the concern that he would remain in power, based on dangerous negotiations, increasingly fragile and more conjunctural.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u272	The 2020 pandemic crisis showed how much this fiscal consolidation was a sand castle. Portugal has had one of the budget responses to Europe's smallest pandemic, i.e. Portugal was the least supported by families and businesses. That was because it was from the countries with the lowest budgetary margin. The government had carried out a structural budgetary consolidation, as we have often mentioned, and Portugal would have had greater support for people, jobs and investment. [[PSD applause.]] The government had a limited and insufficient response to the COVID-19 crisis, but despite this, it allowed itself to evolve into a dangerous public expenditure out of control. According to the proposal we are voting today between 2019 and 2022, withdrawing expenditure on the pandemic and expenditure linked to the PRR, however, primary current expenditure amounts to EUR 11 billion in just three years. It is EUR 11 billion which alone accounts for 5 % of gross domestic product. In order to have a notion of the government's lack of control, it is enough to say that in this same period GDP grows only EUR 15 billion. That is, almost all creation of wealth is captured by this truly omnipresent state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u273	Even worse, it is, above all, structural expenditure, which is rigid and which will therefore continue for many years. This, in a country with a public debt of EUR 220 billion and which has not stopped growing. Just follow what Banco de Portugal said just three weeks ago: the increase in primary current expenditure in 2020 and 2021 is not sustainable in the medium term. And at that time, the Banco de Portugal had not yet seen this proposal for a State Budget for 2022, which further aggravates this disaster with serious consequences for our collective future. The movement itself in the steps of the IRS, sold to the Portuguese, with the usual pump and circumstance, as a large drop in taxes, is worth, after all, in the proposal we are voting today, only EUR 150 million — more or less the amount of seal tax that the government wants to forgive the EDP for selling the dams. [[PSD applause.]] I am modest in comparison, because if I were to call again the New Bank or the TAP the small amount of money would be even greater in view of the propaganda that the government has made. The measures directed directly to companies are also little more than nothing, which will not scare a budget proposal initially designed to please the left. This is the case with the end of the special payment on account, which was already optional for the overwhelming majority, and which is worth only EUR 10 million, which adds a tax credit to the investment which prohibits companies from restructuring in the field of human capital, thus making it ineffective. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, although the vote has not yet taken place, we know that this proposal from the Government will most likely be rejected. It will be rejected because the government has never been able to form a stable parliamentary majority. It was delivered entirely into the hands of the PCP and the Left Block, at the mercy of its demands and of the « line fishing » of independent Members or of parties with very little representativeness. [[PSD applause.]] To please the radical left, Prime Minister António Costa decided to further aggravate his already enormous dependence, saying that on the day he needed the PSD's vote to get a State Budget approved, his Government would resign.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u274	Because of this bad spell, it's not going to Bethlehem!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u275	It is true that in order to be able to dream of a negotiation with the PSD, the government would have to change the direction of economic policy by 180 o, but to say what I said only weakened its negotiating position and only contributed to the country getting closer to ingovernability. [[PSD applause.]] We are paying for the political mistakes of a radicalized PS, which since 2015 has unequivocally surpassed the red lines, which its own founder, Mário Soares, has always traced and respected. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests, having MPs banged their feet on the floor.]] The President of the Republic warned, in due course, that the budget lead had to mean early elections as soon as possible, because we need to reduce the risks not only of delaying ourselves economically but also of avoiding losing a part of the PRR, which has a very short time for its full use. These warnings were of no use because the interveners were intransigently more interested in measuring biased gains and losses than in placing national interest above anyone else. [[PSD applause.]] By obvious parliamentary exhaustion, the country is faced with a political crisis that the longer it lasts, the worse it will be for Portugal. on our part, we have contributed nothing to it. The responsibility is all on our left, which, over the course of time, was understood and misunderstood as well as well. Mr President, as we have disclosed in due course, the PSD can only vote against this State budget which, as I said here, goes precisely contrary to what we have always defended. [[PSD applause, stand up.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u276	For an intervention, the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor, through Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u277	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Six years ago, the Portuguese chose a way... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u278	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, I would ask you to have the same respect for the speech of the honourable Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u279	I'll say it again, so that the gentlemen. Members have heard, that six years ago, the Portuguese have chosen a path that has led us together to economic growth, to the creation of half a million jobs, to the increase in Portuguese income, to the increase in pensions, to the increase in national minimum wage, to the improvement of Portuguese living conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Six years ago, parliamentary democracy allowed a government led by the Socialist Party to be created and supported by the parties to the left in this Parliament. We have recorded the lowest ever deficit, we have won international credibility, and all of this breaking the bow of governance, building bridges and commitments with the left, like years before or months before October 2015, no one would think possible. With the PS government, with the support of the parliamentary left, we returned hope to the Portuguese and managed to turn the page of austerity and end many sacrifices from the Portuguese. We were able to converge with the eurozone on economic growth over four consecutive years, reducing unemployment by half. We have achieved more than one million families with free school textbooks, the 40 % increase in national minimum wage, the reduction, never before imagined, in the price of public transport, the extraordinary increase in pensions and family allowance, the reduction of IRS for so many families, with the collapse of the steps and the elimination of the overtax. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We made the fundamental bet in the National Health Service that was not only in response to the pandemic, it was very previous, and today there are almost 30,000 health professionals in the SNS than there were in early 2016. We have also reached the end of the moderation rates, 800 000 families with the cheapest electricity bill, thanks to the social energy tariff, the progression in the careers of public service, frozen for years, on the right, the fight against precariousness in the state. And with all this, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have regained the international credibility and trust of consumers, investors and entrepreneurs. We comply with Portugal. And these results, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is ours, the Portuguese, the PS government and the left parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let no one today be tempted to deny the importance of these six years, the convergences made, the history of these pages and our responsibility for these achievements. Those who have predicted that this solution would not work, have been deceived and cheated for a long time, for the results that we can present. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during the last two years, we have experienced one of the biggest crises, with the pandemic that has changed the lives of all here and in the world. This government has done everything to leave no one behind. The state did not fail and, in the face of the emergency, it acted. It was over EUR 950 million in additional measures, only in the social sector, during the pandemic. We had a strong social state in the health crisis and in the protection of income, in order to avoid the social crisis, with hundreds of measures that gave a firm and rapid response: from telework to layoff paid at 100 %, from suspension of contributions to paid prophylactic isolation, from support for the follow-up of minor children to support independent workers, businesses, through banking moratoriums. It was because we always posted in the National Health Service and thanks to the commitment and dedication of its professionals, which Portugal leads today the vaccination rates. We were the first country in the world to reach 85% of its population with full vaccination and are now with 88% of the vaccinated population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a conquest of the greatest importance, which has allowed us to resume life and to definate. With these and other measures, our response was solidarity and we are now returning to pre-pandamy employment numbers. And we managed to do so without cuts, without making any greater steps than the leg, but with solidarity, with responsibility and without austerity! [[P.S.'s applause.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have arrived here at the conclusion of this budget, it is right to stress once again the Government's efforts to reach agreement in these negotiations. It was hours, many meetings, a lot of work. However, a negotiation cannot be granted. A negotiation is dialogue and commitment, a negotiation is not everything or anything, a negotiation is to place the priority of the country and the Portuguese ahead of any party agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State budget for 2022 is a left-wing budget and has the greatest social investment ever: more than EUR 7 billion than in 2015, the largest investment in family social benefits, the progressive freeness of daycare for all children every year, the national strategy to combat poverty and the guarantee for childhood, created for the first time, the extraordinary updating of lower pensions and the regular updating of all pensions, the increase of national minimum wage in 40 €, the greatest ever increase of these six years, the highest value always for employment and training policies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conjunction with this Budget, with the measures that have been negotiated, and which are set out here, it is fair that it also refers to the commitment to professional status for the workers of culture, who, with this State Budget, had, for the first time, guaranteed social protection. To vote against this State budget is to deprive 500 000 children of support, who are in poverty today, children who do not have access to school, do not have the least to live with dignity, children who do not have access to a decent housing. It is for these children that the State budget cannot be plunged. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To vote against this State budget is to deprive more than 2 million pensioners of an increase that improves their living conditions. And it's because of these pensioners that the budget can't be dropped. To vote against this State budget is to deprive thousands of public servants who expect an improvement in their salary, it is to deprive Portuguese people who need an improvement in health care, it is to deprive companies of more investment. The Portuguese celebrated a left-wing alliance led by the PS, and expect us to continue our journey. And for this reason, today there is a country that looks at this Parliament, astonished and fearful. No one understands that from now on the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens Ecologist Party stand by the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, to vote against this Budget,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the leftmost budget with more social sensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the right does not follow this path, it is natural in democracy. When the road is different, it does not shorten wages, does not postpone dreams, does not increase taxes, does not create uncertainty, does not defend the minimum state or privatisations, it is very natural, Mr Rui Rio, that the right does not accompany us. But on the left, it is incomprehensible to stand alongside those who have always been, always against the social achievements that we have recovered over these six years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the PS did was what all Portuguese know: we reverse the austerity policies that made Portuguese pay an unnecessary and unnecessarily high bill and proved that it was possible to increase the economy and employment with social justice. The country demands us—and outside, they ask us—for stability, because this is a particular moment in the history of our country. This is a time when, after we have negotiated the largest package of Community funds for our recovery, we have an obligation to commit ourselves to the recovery of people's lives, to the recovery of businesses and to the recovery of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When the PCP, the Left Block and the ENP vote against this budget, they are also voting against their own proposals, which are included there.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u280	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic is not over and the legislature is two more years old. We would have time to sit at the table, to solve problems whose solutions took the first significant steps with the Dignified Work Agenda, with the SNS status, or with the status of health professionals. The supreme irony of the lead of this budget is that it does not relate to any budgetary matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u282	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u283	...but, yes, with the introduction of measures that have nothing to do with the State budget. The country does not behave radicalism. The country wants serenity and social peace and wants the rulers to solve their problems. It will never be, nor has it ever been, by the PS and the Government that the left has not understood. No, it wasn't the PS that deviated from the road started six years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, the choice is simple: continue the path or interrupt this cycle of conquests and growth. To close the doors today is to give up the idea of understanding on the left, is to give up a path to a country oriented by seeking more equality and solidarity, is to give up the strengthening of the social state and the promotion of combating poverty, through the affirmation of social rights. It is as if, in the statement of our different programs, it was indifferent to the final outcome, it was indifferent that, in the end, people lived better or worse. To the left, this result can never be indifferent! The value of the national minimum wage is not indifferent. The value of lower pensions is not indifferent. The cost of public transport is not indifferent. The cost of electricity is not indifferent. It's not indifferent to the cost of day care. The cost of education is not indifferent. The quality of the National Health Service is not indifferent. Precautionary at work is not indifferent. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To achieve more, it is not legitimate to throw out what has already been achieved and what, step by step, could still be achieved. The PS has never given up or will never give up the country and the Portuguese. We do not consider what makes the difference in the lives of millions of Portuguese and we are available to continue. You may, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that in the benches on the right, inside the turbulence that goes to your houses,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u284	...they're on the lookout to be able to reverse all the social achievements we've achieved over these six years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The vote against the right side is to say to the right that he was right when he cut wages, when he cut pensions, when he had the minimum state and when he failed public services! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u285	It's not worth everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u286	Mrs. Member, I'm not going to tell you anything. It's not worth it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, wanting everything, mortgageting the credibility that has been won over these years, it is not serious. To want everything at the same time in negotiations is not serious, but the Portuguese know that they can count on the Socialist Party to make a difference. Today they can bring the Budget down, but they do not overthrow the Socialist Party, a left party, which makes politics on the left! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Time will come, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in which the Portuguese will say it was a mistake to chumbar this budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party's bench votes with pride and pride in favour of the best State budget in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Here we are to continue making Portugal a better country for all. As Mário Soares would say, today is another day. There's no past, there's no future. This is our horizon, and only those who stop fighting are defeated. For Portugal, for the Portuguese! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u287	To close the debate, you have the floor by the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of these two days of parliamentary debate, I am here with serenity, but also with the freedom of those who are at peace of conscience. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am aware that the Government has presented a good proposal for a State Budget, focusing on the country's priorities and fully consistent with the strategic vision we have for Portugal. But I am also aware that I have done everything, everything, what was within my reach to ensure the viability of this Budget, without accepting what, in good conscience, I do not believe that the Country could bear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government has fulfilled its share. Now, everything depends for now on this House of the Republic. What will now be voted on — it must be clear — is no longer just the bill that the Government originally tabled in the Assembly of the Republic. What will be voted on is what, however, is the result of negotiations with the non-registered Members, the ENP, the PAN, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, the initial proposal incorporated, as commitments already publicly assumed, either by the Government or by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So what this vote will determine is whether, in the field of expertise, these commitments are being implemented and converted into rules of the State budget, or whether they have simply been good intentions agreed between the government and the parties who will now be called to vote in general. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In other words, what we are going to vote today is whether parliamentary work is over, or whether it is going to continue in the field of expertise, so that we can ensure as important progress as those that have been achieved in the negotiations. Examples of these advances are the guarantee that pensions up to €1097 have the extraordinary increase already on January 1st. Or will this possibility now be plunged into this vote in general? [[P.S.'s applause.]] What you are going to vote is whether the National Health Service will have a reinforcement of more than 700 million euros, or whether it will be limited to the current budget twelfths. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What they're going to vote is whether we start the daycare free process for all children, or whether this process is postponed sine die, until, one day, the budget that enables it can be approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What they're going to vote is if the families are going to see the IRS paid down, or if the steps continue to collapse and the deductions to increase. It is if the 170 000 families who may become free of IRS, by increasing the minimum of existence, will pay IRS for the year or will stop paying IRS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the ladies and gentlemen are doing. Members will vote if we create the child guarantee, allowing us to recover from extreme poverty 120,000 children, or if we continue to comply with this dramatic reality in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the ladies and gentlemen are doing. Members will vote if we make it possible for people aged 60 and 80% of their disability to be released or if they continue to be penalized for the anticipation of their reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As Mrs Inês de Sousa Real stressed well,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u289	... to chum this bill in general is to prevent the consolidation of all these advances that the negotiations have already allowed and is to close the door to new advances that the work in the field of specialty may still open. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I wonder: what is the justification, what is the rationality to avoid the realization of what has already been achieved? What is the rationality to prevent further improvements, and it is certain that the feasibility at this stage does not limit in any way the possibility of an evaluation of the final outcome at the global final vote? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u290	It's already on the list of good guys!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u291	That is, no one asks for a blank check; what we all promise, what we all have a duty to do is to consecrate by law the commitments which we have negotiated and which we have taken in the meantime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even more strange, to be clear, is that this budget is intended to fall in the name of divergences on subjects that have nothing to do with this budget. This is the case, for example, with regard to labour legislation, which is not the subject of this budget, which has only now begun the public debate and which, necessarily, is the reserve of legislative competence in this House of the Republic, here one day will have to be appreciated and voted, and may then deserve the favourable vote, abstention or lead of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, it is not only to call into question a good budget with the improvements achieved in the meantime, but also to prevent the realization of the most ambitious agenda for the dignity of work, the fight against precariousness, the abuse of temporary work, the regulation of telework and the work on digital platforms and the reconciliation of personal, family and professional life. That is what is effectively called into question in this vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No party was further than the Left Block in this idea of discussing in the State Budget what nothing has to do with the State Budget. of the nine famous proposals submitted by the Left Block, five are amendments to the Labour Code, which have their own time to be discussed and to be voted. A proposal, the full dedication of health professionals, takes place to be discussed and discussed in the Statute of the National Health Service, which was placed by the government last week in public debate. A seventh proposal, which has to do with the creation of the career of health assistant technicians, is necessarily the matter of collective bargaining, of legislation by the government, and in fact in the Assembly of the Republic, what is not lacking are legislative initiatives to create this career of the health assistant technician, well demonstrating that it is not a matter that has to be included in this budget law. The eighth question also has to do with the sustainability factor, the cornerstone of social security reform and which can only be discussed at its own headquarters, which is the revision of the Basics of Social Security Act. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is to say, of the nine proposals submitted, eight have nothing to do with this proposal for a State budget law. And the ninth, the only one that has to do with this proposal for a State budget law, to guarantee the possibility of early retirement at the age of 60 for whom it has 80 % disability, was that which the Government has already given public, unequivocal and irrevocable consent to its vote in the field of specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u292	In short, can I continue, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u293	Read the Block proposals well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u294	Thank you very much for your kindness. In short, anyone who wants to improve the State Budget, who wants to contribute to regulate the Health Bases Act, with the approval of the Statute of the National Health Service, who wants to review labour legislation, fighting for a Dignified Work Agenda, should not in any way impede the debate in the speciality of this State Budget, thus impairing its improvement or endangering the continuity of this Legislation, thus preventing the approval of the SNS Statute and the revision of the labour law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And in order for everyone to also have the notion of what is asked of each one, it is not necessary for the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party or the ENP to vote in favour of this bill. The PS votes are sufficient to defeat the votes on the right. It is enough that the left to the left of the PS does not add its votes to the right's votes so that the PS Government's budget can be made viable at this stage of generality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And — allow me one side — if you have already forgotten what was even a right-wing budget, although Mr Rui Rio was so clear here to explain what would be a right-wing budget if the right-wing rule. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So the political choice from left to left of PS is very simple: with whom do you want to be? Do you want to be with the PS Government or add yourself to the right, against the PS Government? [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand, of course, the indistinct joy of the right with the unexpected interruption of the new political situation that began in 2016 and that this vote seems to be interrupting...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u295	The laugh is nervous! Don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u296	Yes, Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo is right: for me, a vote against the left to the left of the PS in this Budget is not only a personal frustration, it is also a personal defeat, because, contrary to what often the right likes to repeat, the solution built in November 2015 was not an appeal solution. [[PSD and CH protests.]] In June 2014, when I presented my candidacy to the Secretary-General of the PS, I defended the end of the governance arc. When I presented the motion to the PS Congress in November 2014, I defended the end of the governance arc, and let me — not because of immodesty — quote what I said at the close of the PS Congress, on November 30, 2014, a year before the elections: « We refuse the concept of the governance arc as delimiting who are the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic that have access and the legitimacy to share government responsibility. In democracy, who decides who represents the people is the people. No one can replace the people by excluding some of their representatives from their full responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u297	Look what a nice result!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u298	Let us therefore make it clear that we will not exclude the parties on our left from the responsibility that they must also not only be protest parties, but also be parties to solutions to national problems. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] I was born on the left, I was raised on the left, and the left is my family. I think the left can be much more than the non-right or the mere right opposition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u299	I believe that the left has all the potential to build the future and take our country further, that the left is not condemned to the protest and that the left can be the balanced, responsible government, which is able to transform the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And frustrated, yes, but also proud, of the walk that we have been able to do since 2016 until now. And if it was possible to prove that it was possible to turn the page of austerity without having to leave the euro and also to prove that we did not have to leave the euro to turn the page of austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, proud that, despite all the vicissitudes—which are many—it has been possible to maintain a set of parties on the left, with a well-woned own identity, well-built throughout history, in which no one confuses each other, and, during six consecutive budgets, it has been possible for all, or almost all, to find solutions that have enabled governance. Yes, I am proud, despite all the vicissitudes, all the improbability, of all the novelty of this solution, that these six years have been more than the four years of the first three governments of AD ( Democratic Alliance ), the three years of the second government of AD and the last four years of the Government of the Democratic Alliance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, we've been more stable! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am sorry, therefore, that you do not want to withdraw the full potential of this government solution and consider yourself to be premature closed that there is a way to walk. And I know — I know well — that I share this frustration with the 2 740 000 voters who in 2019 voted to continue management. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I also trust — some think that I am optimistic, but above all, I am confident in my country and in Portuguese — and I hope that this right-wing victory will be a victory for Pirro and that my frustration and frustration of these 2 740 000 voters can become a strengthened, stable and lasting majority in a forthcoming legislative session. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u300	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this was indeed a debate on the left, in which the right was practically absent. The right has closed to works and clearly is not yet an alternative to the country's governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u302	Still!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u303	It is limited to the new avenue, which is to compare European convergence, hiding a simple but decisive fact: that the only years since the beginning of this century, in which Portugal grew above the European average, the only years of this century in which Portugal converged with the European Union were 2009 and then 2017, 2018, 2019. And everything is expected to be again this year, 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I don't know if they realized that in each of these years the right was in opposition and the PS was in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] There is a new slope that begins and has to do with the rate of recovery at the end of the crisis of the COVID-19, ignoring not the numbers, but what the numbers do not hide: the sectors that were most affected by this crisis, such as the tourism and restoration sectors, have a weight in the Portuguese economy that do not generally have European economies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, if you work to make a comparison, not with the 27 Member States, but with the other countries where tourism has the weight it has in Portugal, you will find that Portugal is growing and recovering faster than these other countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Dr. Rui Rio, no, we are not expecting the PRR to solve the problem; we are fighting us in Europe for Europe to have a joint and robust response to this economic crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are fighting in Europe to ensure that Europe, this time, does not answer with austerity, but with solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are fighting in Europe for Europe to approve an economic recovery plan that only compares with the Marshall Plan, following World War II. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We fight for it. And I am quite sure, without wanting to do intention processes, that, in the morning of July 22, the day on which it was verified that there would be PRR, many here decided that it was time to lie down this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yeah, and we didn't expect the PRR to be drawn by chance. We worked and involved Portuguese society in the design of the PRR. [[PSD protests.]] So far we have come to the Assembly of the Republic in September 2020 to promote a debate. And in this debate there were zero ideas from Dr. Rui Rio, except to say that it was a mistake to increase the national minimum wage. But about the PRR, there was zero contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all know, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the option which Mr President of the Republic, in exercising his own powers, took in advance the possibility that the State budget would not be approved. It is the responsibility of the President of the Republic, who we do not comment on, and who, as always, we respect, whatever the final option he takes. For our part, we will not turn our backs on the responsibilities towards the Portuguese. We did not do so at difficult times when the European Commission threatened us with sanctions, nor did we do so when the pandemic hit Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u304	We proved that it was possible to break with austerity without leaving the euro and we proved that it was possible to strengthen the National Health Service to respond to the pandemic and carry out a vaccination operation that puts us at a global summit position today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have been, are and will be a reference to stability and responsible balance, which guarantees conditions of governance, however adverse they are. This is our institutional duty, but it is above all our duty to the Portuguese, at a time when the Portuguese economy is getting out of the deepest economic crisis we have had to face and to resume a growth path above the euro area and the European Union. When, 1st. the semester of this year, there was a new maximum of business investment, when Portuguese exports are already above 2019 and unemployment has already fallen to a value below that recorded in the crisis, when the international credibility of Portugal remains intact and, in full crisis, we achieve, the first debt issue, at 10 years, negative interest, when Portugal has a volume of resources that it has never been prepared to overcome definitively structural blockades and today, for the first time in our history, it has a generation with qualification levels close to the European Union average, the last thing that Portugal needs and that Portuguese deserve is a political crisis at this time and in these circumstances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In democracy, there are never alleys without exit. In democracy, there are always alternatives. The first, the best, of course, is that which is in the hands of this House of the Republic and which is this: from now on, when they are called to vote, in general, on the proposal for a State budget law, they make it possible to move on to the specialty, so that negotiations and improvement of the budget can continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second is the following: if the State Budget Bill is not approved, the government will be here to guarantee conditions of governance, even in twelfths, because we will never turn our backs on adversity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr President of the Republic — and we respect it — may, of course, decide to dissolve this House, and here we shall be to account and mobilize the Portuguese, to create the conditions of governance that will no longer exist today, to lead Portugal to a future of progress, modernity and justice, which the Portuguese deserve. And because, as I said yesterday, and today I repeat again, asking Jorge Palma for his borrowed words again, «as long as there are winds and seas, we will not stop». We're not gonna stop! [[P.S., standing, and the members of the Government present.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u305	Let us now proceed to the vote. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members who, in addition to voting on the proposal for a State Budget Act for 2022, there are several other statutory votes. Therefore, it is not thought that, by voting on the proposal for a State Budget Act for 2022, this session will be concluded because it is not left. We then begin by voting in general Law No 116 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The result was the rejection of this Government proposal. I would now like to inform all parliamentary groups that tomorrow at 10 a.m. and 30 minutes, we will have a Leaders' Conference to carry out, in accordance with this result, the planning of the work of the Assembly of the Republic, as is normal. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1483 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 1484 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Madrid. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1485 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Malaga. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1172 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of the national health strategy plan, 1331 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the updating and implementation of the national strategic plan for telehealth and 1351 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — It proposes measures for investment in telehealth. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Finally, we shall vote in a global final vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 1390 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Requalification and rehabilitation of the Second School António Inácio da Cruz, in Grândola, 1407 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Second School António Inácio da Cruz, in Grândola, 1413 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By performing requalification works of the Second School António Inácio da Cruz, Grândola, and 1447 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Second School António Inácio da Cruz, in Grândola. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will now give an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u306	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Organic Unit 6 of the Administrative Court of the Lisbon Circle, Case No 2755 / 10.5BELSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies issued an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves ( PSD ) to provide written testimony within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-27.u307	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As I said tomorrow, we will have a conference of leaders at 10 a.m. and 30 minutes. Members then informed in accordance with the continuation of the work at least next week. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 25 minutes.]]
