ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours.]] The first item on our agenda is the general debate on Bills Nos 859 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Legalizes the cannabis for personal use and 862 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Establishes the legalization of the cannabis. This debate was requested by BE. First of all, Mr Fabian Figueiredo of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 20 years ago, Portugal had the highest rate of HIV infections (human immunodeficiency virus) in all countries of the current European Union — over 3000 new cases per year. Almost half of the new cases were related to heroin consumption. One in 100 Portuguese was dependent on this substance, i.e. 1 % of the national population. When we compare these data with those presented today in the reports, it is another country that they portray. We must take pride in the way we have traveled and remember how it was possible to get here. Twenty years ago, Parliament had the wisdom of adopting courageous and innovative measures to deal with drug addiction, describing drug use. He stopped repressing, because he needed to be treated. He responded to a public health problem instead of trying to hide in prison. The solution that Portugal has adopted is today studied and praised by several States and international institutions, but, 20 years ago, it has not been consensual in the Assembly of the Republic. There was no lack of voice to prophesy that we would turn into a narcostate. A right-wing member, Paulo Portas, at the time, exclaimed to the British newspaper The Times, who would land planes full of students in the Algarve to smoke marijuana and worse, knowing we wouldn't put them in jail. « Sun, beach and drug» — in the prophecy of this Conservative Member, this would be the new motto of Portugal's tourism. The Member became Minister of State and Defence after Foreign Affairs and was still Deputy Prime Minister. So it lasted in the government, until you can hear the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet, considering the Portuguese drug policy as a model below. All drug-related diseases decreased dramatically, as well as the general rates of consumption and associated mortality. Portugal today presents one of the lowest mortality rates for drug use in Europe. Another member, then leader of the opposition, Durão Barroso, even demanded a referendum on the new law. After two years, I would arrive at the Prime Minister and later the President of the European Commission. His Government did not reverse the decriminalization of drug use and could thus, on behalf of the Portuguese State, collect the first international praise for the rapid progress in combating drug addiction and observe several other States implementing public policies inspired by our humanist approach. I'm glad you did. In 2019, the persistence of the Left Block in the City Hall of Lisbon realized the opening of the country's first supervised consumption rooms. This possibility was foreseen in the law since 2001, but it took 18 long years to get out of the paper. The results are in sight: more follow-up, more treatment, more public health. We are proud of this step. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Despite this paradigm shift, drug policy in Portugal remains incomplete and with a structural contradiction to be resolved. Consumers have stopped facing criminal processes, but their consumption remains dependent on an illegal market, a huge business that continues to be delivered to organised crime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block has marked today's legislative debate on the legalization of cannabis for personal use, because we understand that it is more than enough time to turn this page. Many States have followed our pioneering 20 years ago. Let us now apply the best international examples in the legalization of cannabis. This sensible and prudent legislative advance can be made with broad parliamentary consensus in this Parliament. In recent years several countries have legalized the use of cannabis for personal consumption, such as Canada, Uruguay and several United States and territories. We should look at these examples and learn from them. Practice is always the criterion of truth. There, where the process of legalizing the cannabis, this contributed to the increase in safety rates, regulated consumption, effectively combatted traffic networks and organized crime, removing the monopoly of production and distribution. It is estimated that cannabis represents, globally, half of the lucrative criminal business of illicit substance trafficking, estimated at about $300 billion. in those countries, legalization has freed resources and means from the security forces, concentrating them where they are most needed, and increased tax revenue. Let us be serious: the legalization of cannabis does not automatically lead to changes in consumption patterns. Everything depends on the legalization model adopted. Uncontrolled consumption is actually what we have today and it is with him that we must break up, in the name of responsibility. We propose that the sale be withdrawn from the hands of the traffickers and can only be made by establishments duly licensed for this purpose. We propose that the level of THC (tetrahydrocanabinol), the active substance of the cannabis, be regulated according to public health criteria, removing chemicals and controlled substances from the streets, which represent a real danger for all consumers. The State must intervene in the circuit of cultivation, production and distribution for non-medicinal use, removing all and any margins to organised crime. The money that illegality and deregulation have channeled, for too long, to the parallel economy must lead to a legal activity, controlled and targeted by a special tax, which finances the development of policies for prevention, risk reduction and treatment of dependencies, and investment in the National Health Service. We must listen carefully to the words of the former Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, who told us that it is time to realize that drugs are infinitely more dangerous if left in the hands of criminals, who have no concern about health and safety. We must legislate by listening to President Jorge Sampaio when he asks us to regulate strictly substances that are illegal today. The Left Block proposes that a participatory and inclusive process be opened today, which gives rise to a weighted, rigorous and effective law, allowing us to say, within 20 years, that we take a safe, necessary and responsible step in the evolution of drug policy, in which the world can be reviewed and with which it can continue to learn. This is the appeal we've left to all the benches. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u3	Mrs Cláudia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group, and Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos of the PS Parliamentary Group, signed up to request clarifications from Mr Fabian Figueiredo. Mrs Cláudia Bento, you have the floor to make the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Fabian Figueiredo, making a brief contextualization in Portugal, the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes was legislated in 2018, although they had already been approved medicines containing cannabis extracts, which were used for the treatment of some diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. It is true that there are therapeutic potentials recognized to cannabis, whether in the treatment of different diseases, or in the control of signs and symptoms. However, it should be noted that this substance is considered a drug, whose uncontrolled and abusive use entails serious and undeniable harm and risks to human health. For example, between 2000 and 2015, Portuguese public hospitals recorded 3233 admissions for psychotic episodes associated with cannabis abuse or dependence, almost 600 only in the last few years. According to the report by SICAD ( Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies ), between 2012 and 2016 / 2017, there was a worsening of cannabis consumption, either at the prevalence level or at the frequency level of consumption. It is also undeniable that cannabinoids, when consumed by prolonged periods, can contribute to the emergence or worsening of various and serious mental disorders, such as panic disturbances, bipolar disturbance, depression, schizophrenia, canabic toxic psychosis and risk of dependence. But the prolonged consumption of cannabis can still affect some cognitive functions, such as fluency in speech, attention and short-term memory, which may result in a deficit in learning. It should also be recalled that when used during pregnancy, cannabinoids can cause premature birth and low birth weight. Additionally, there are studies that show that intrauterine exposure to cannabis increases the risk of attention deficit in children and may generate greater predisposition to drug use in adulthood. For all the facts described, among many others that could be mentioned, it is not surprising that an opinion of the 2018 National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences warned about the risks of cannabis. It considered that Council "to be of the greatest importance the existence of a safe legal framework, with specific requirements for the use of cannabis for medicinal use, ensuring that the benefits of its use outweigh the inherent risks, also ensuring the protection of public and citizens' health, and ensuring an appropriate and effective regulatory framework, with control and supervision measures. Do not keep on seeking. ” in this context, I ask the honourable Member whether or not the Left Block recognizes the existence of risks to human health that may result from the uncontrolled consumption of cannabis. I also ask you whether, recognizing the risks, you have the Left Block opening, yes or no, to promote solutions leading to a legalization responsible for the use of cannabis. One such solution could be the sale of cannabis only in pharmacies, reinforcing the perception that it is a drug and ensuring the quality of the product dispensed. A responsible legalisation strategy is necessary. Is the Left Block available to perform this path? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u5	For a request for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fabian Figueiredo, I would like to begin by associating myself with your statement: that we should be proud of the path we have taken from the adoption of the National Strategy to Combat Drugs, especially to think about the lives we have saved, the lives we have recovered and the lives we have supported throughout this time. Today is the time to welcome and acknowledge the work of someone who has been indispensable in these achievements, who was, exactly, the coordinator of this national strategy and today we are very proud to have as a member of the Socialist Party: Mr Alexandre Quintanilla. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] In the explanatory statement of the project of the Left Block, several questions were asked that were also raised at the time of the adoption of this strategy. However, there is one issue which, for the PS, is very important — and I think it is very important for all of us, for all the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic — which is that of fulfilling our international commitments. In this case, I am referring to the fulfilment of the three United Nations conventions on drug control, in particular Article 4. the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. I believe that it was important, at the beginning of this debate, that the Left Block should have the opportunity to frame us on how it considers that the project it presents fulfils, or not, what is defined in these conventions, in particular the 1961 Convention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u7	Mr. Fabian Figueiredo, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u8	Mr President, Mrs Cláudia Bento, I would like to congratulate you on your question. On May 11, 2000, PSD Deputies Pedro Duarte, Ricardo Fonseca de Almeida, José Eduardo Martins, Nuno Freitas, Bruno Vitorino and Luís Pedro Pimentel wrote the following: "There are lawful drugs, such as alcohol, whose consumption entails a much greater harm on consumer health, the degree of dependence and the social consequences inherent than currently illicit drugs, such as cannabis and derivatives." It was therefore 20 years ago that a group of PSD members handed over a bill stating what was already scientific evidence, which is even more confirmed today. The honourable Member asked whether the Left Block had opened up a legislative process involving discussion in the field of expertise, where a solution could be found which could be widely supported in the Assembly of the Republic. Yes, Mrs Deputy, we have the readiness for a good law in this Parliament on the use of cannabis for personal use from which we can take pride within 20 years when we make a new review of drug policy in Portugal for two decades. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos on her question addressed to me and to associate myself with her greeting to all those who have been responsible for the legislation which took place 20 years ago, in particular to Mr Alexandre Quintanilla. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] As you will certainly know, the World Health Organization ( WHO) and the United Nations ( UN) have removed the cannabis from Table 4 of the dangerous substances; it has been declassified and there are growing voices of the United Nations that require responsible legislation and regulation of this substance. It does not seem to us that Uruguay, Canada or several States of the United States of America, which are linked to the same treaties as the Portuguese State, are failing to comply with the policy of combating drugs and drug addiction by opting for legalization of consumption for personal use. In conclusion, I also reaffirm to the Socialist Party that the Left Bloc has all the openness, all the availability to, dialogue, have a legislative initiative in which everyone, with good will, can be recognized. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u9	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this particularly liberal minute on the legalization of non-medicinal cannabis, it is appropriate to start by combating misinformation. And fight it as it should be fought: with true information and not with quality stamps sponsored by the State, to whom it cannot define what is true or not. First misinformation: The Liberal Initiative does not present its project today by some modernist tic or by political calculation, it does so by conviction, in compliance with what is found from the first day of its political program and in the name of the defense of a vision of society in which people are politically sovereign and in which they are free to make decisions about their own life. Second misinformation: the Liberal Initiative has never stated, or even understood, that this issue is the biggest problem in the country nor has it been pronounced against the political opportunity of the debate. But having another political force scheduled for discussion, we did not steal from this debate or hide ourselves. The Liberal Initiative will not make the mistake of others who, for decades, have allowed the left to appropriate certain topics. Last misinformation: by defending the consecration of a right, we are not using or recommending its use. In fact, the measure of a true liberal is the conviction with which he defends the establishment of rights that do not directly benefit him. Defending a right we intend to use is to fight for our own benefit, to defend a right that others intend to benefit is to fight for a more free society vision, which welcomes the diversity of opinions and lifestyles. And it is in the name of this vision of society that the Liberal Initiative presents its project of responsible liberalization of non-medical cannabis. People have the right to decide on their own lives, free from the paternalism of the state, to whom we cannot allow ourselves to be convinced that he knows better what we want for our lives than ourselves. This is the central theme of this discussion, but it is not the only one. We must recognize the absolute failure of the prohibitionist approach, which not only did it solve the problem of drugs as it potentiated the sources of financing of criminal activities, it brought about judicial and judicial systems and subjected consumers to greater risks, related to product quality and contact with the underworld of trafficking. It is clear that this approach has failed and that it is urgent to change. And it is urgent to switch to an approach based on individual responsibility and on free and unburocratized markets. This is the only way to boost small operators and end the black market. And this is what we clearly distinguished from the project of the Left Block. We do not want to pass on a model in which the traffickers send to one in which the state sends. The function of the State is not to benefit from the habits or vices of people, but to ensure that the rules apply universally and responsibly in socially relevant matters. And among these are, of course, topics such as the sale to minors and people with psychic disturbance, the concentration of THC, labelling, health warnings, applying, with the necessary adaptations, the provisions of Law No 109 / 2015 on plant products for smoking.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u11	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. Because this is a debate that requires responsibility and depth, we require the fall of our project to the committee, without a vote, so that, in the context of discussion in the specialty, we can deepen the debate and bring together the necessary consensus. The Portuguese know that they can count on the Liberal Initiative when their individual freedom is involved—that is what makes us different—in the name of personal freedom and in the name of a vision of society in which the most diverse life projects fall.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u13	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, a PSD Member has signed up to request clarifications, which is accompanied by a one-minute grant so that he can answer. You have the floor, therefore, to ask for clarification, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the intervention here, it seems to us that the Liberal Initiative recognises that cannabis is — and of course I am quoting the draft law of the IL — a drug because it causes changes in consciousness and also because its abuse may have negative consequences for the user, such as the development of habits or mental disturbances. Despite this, the Liberal Initiative decided to propose the liberalisation of the consumption and cultivation of cannabis without medical prescription, the same is true without being for medical purposes. Mr President, your party has not chosen the responsible route of a controlled purchasing regime for personal consumption, even choosing to admit the cultivation of cannabis for personal use, the so-called autoculture. It is true that it establishes a maximum limit of six plants per permanent home — curiously, a number of plants greater than the proposal of the Left Block — but what I ask you, of course, is the following: how does the Liberal Initiative feel to ensure, if its proposal is approved, that this six-plant limit is respected by the owner? And do not use the ridiculous argument that your project requires that cultivation for personal use be made compulsory with seeds authorized and acquired in licensed establishments for this purpose, as if from these seeds it was not possible to make new plantings as well. I would also like to ask: will this autoculture not be entirely free and autonomous and, therefore, not taxable, Member of the House? Or, on the contrary, should the same be the subject of communication and follow-up by the competent authorities, whether these police or administrative authorities, always in difficult compatibility with the autonomy and personal dignity of the consumer? Would it not have made sense, in view of the obvious and uncontrollable risks that the cannabis autoculture entails for human health, that the sale of this substance was limited, for example, to Community pharmacies, since it is a drug and it is important to guarantee the quality of the product dispensed? Wasn't this more reasonable, sir? The cannabis has effects and risks detrimental to human health, causing its psychopathic consumption...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u15	Psychopath? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u16	...psychic anomaly, an antisocial disorder of personality, psychosis — a psychic state in which there is a loss of contact with reality — anxiety, paranoia, among many other harmful effects that are even widely discussed and taught. I ask you, therefore, how does it explain the serious omission, in your project, of any standard, of any measure to provide cannabis consumers with adequate medical advice and follow-up to the disincentive of this consumption. Finally, since the prevalence of higher cannabis consumption is known to be found in young adults and the harmful effect of this substance is as much as the consumer's age, I wonder if it is allowed to change its design to allow this consumption from 21 years of age and not from 18 years of age, as is proposed to us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u17	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I know that many questions have been asked, but I ask you to meet the answer time of 1 minute. You have the floor to answer, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u18	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Pereira, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. I have noticed that none of them have anything to do with the failure of the banist policy which, in large part, our proposal also intends to close. But I will not steal from this question, as I will not steal from this debate. The definition of drugs that we have included in our explanatory statement shows that we are not running away from the issue and the existence of the problem. We are not denying that there are phenomena of habit, we are not denying that there is a change in states of consciousness. What we are saying is that it is identical or even lower the risk of this substance than others that are already legal and that they do not have the risks associated with the prohibitions that this substance has. Then, yes, there is in fact a liberalisation of self-consumption as well. Madam Member, I would like to discuss ways to ensure that there is control and control of all the measures that are provided for in our project, but do not tell me that this, which must be the millionth provision that the Portuguese State has to monitor in the various bodies, is more difficult to do than others. Finally, and briefly, Mr President, I would like to say that we are also concerned about the prevention and treatment of the conditions associated with consumption of this and other substances. And that is why we have recorded the revenue that fiscally comes to be obtained with the legalization of this product exactly to these functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u19	Mr António Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decriminalization of the possession and consumption of drugs in Portugal, approved by the Assembly of the Republic in 2001, acknowledged that additive behaviours are based on a health disorder. As such, it was assumed by the legislator that the criminal way at nothing could contribute to the reduction of consumption, so such behaviors ceased to be the target of criminal proceedings. Alternatively, consumption became a social counter-ordination and mechanisms were developed that sought to provide special help and support to the consumer. Contrary to fears at the time, there has been no increase in consumption in Portugal, when compared with other countries of the European Union, nor has there been an increase in the so-called narcotics tourism in our country. Today, we discuss two bills, one from the Left Block and another from the Liberal Initiative, through which their proponents intend to legalize cannabis for personal consumption, the same is for recreational use. The discussion that takes place today, only a few days after the presentation of these two legislative initiatives, will not necessarily do justice to the importance and seriousness that matters in the presence would certainly require. In fact, not being these new themes in this House, nor the first time that the Left Block on the same initiatives presented, it would have been desirable, and it was certainly possible, a greater precedent between the presentation and the political assessment of this proposal. This is therefore a preventable precipitation which, in addition to this, made it impossible to issue the desired opinion of the committee responsible, as well as the relevant technical note of parliamentary services. It's too bad. There was no need for that to happen. Secondly, there is the fact that the Health Committee has now been considered competent ab initio, when initiatives of the same level have always begun to fall to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. Nothing against us, but we make it clear — very clearly — that the PSD does not consider the relevant and active participation of the 1. the Commission in the reflection and debate that are now only beginning. But these issues are essentially procedural and what we are called upon here is, of course, the content of the initiatives in question. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative propose to the country the legalization of the recreational consumption of cannabis, presenting proposals in a similar way in general. They also admit the autoculture of cannabis for recreational personal consumption, that is, each can cultivate cannabis plants for their own use. In this regard, the Liberal Initiative proposes, for example, that cultivation be permitted for personal use up to a maximum of six plants per own and permanent housing, a slightly more libertarian proposal, I would say, than the current of the Left Block, which limits this autoculture to five plants, far from the 10 plants that the same Block proposed a few years ago when it was in opposition. [[BE's laughs.]] But the question is, where do we stand? What is the rationality of these proposals? Each person can grow five, six or, why not, the 10 that the Block proposed a few years ago? Then, how is it controlled and who controls this crop and, in particular, that it does not exceed the maximum of lawfully permitted plants? In short, how will the monitoring of the law take place when it comes to autoculture? These unanswered questions should alert us to the extreme melindre that it is possible to open the doors to the autoculture. It can be practical, but no one will believe that it's fiscal... It will therefore be worth thinking well—and even thinking very well—about whether it makes sense to allow a person, anyone over 18 years of age to grow in a cannabis house, claiming that he does so for his own consumption. I repeat: the autoculture of cannabis, even subject to rules and limits, is very difficult, if not impossible, to control, inviting illegal practices that will quickly make the restrictions legally imposed obsolete. Having said this, as far as cultivation for personal use is concerned, curiously, the draft law of the Liberal Secondary Initiative refers to the proposals of the Block of Left either, for example, to the limits on the purchase of cannabis or to places where its consumption is prohibited. When it comes to the marketing of cannabis, the differences between the Block and the Liberal Initiative naturally increase, drawing on the "almost Soviet" model of the prices laid down —... [[PCP laughter.]] ... as if the cannabis was an essential asset—and preferring market deregulation, as if the cannabis was any consumer goods. Another aspect concerns the online sale foreseen both in the project of the Left Block and in the Liberal Initiative. Already in the framework of criminal law, the two diplomas present identical solutions, almost, I would say, lovingly identical. This is an example of the proposal to punish the illegal marketing of cannabis with imprisonment for 4 to 12 years, paradoxically a more serious penalty than that of 3 to 10 years for the crime of rape! This incongruity — more so! — that it is intended to introduce into the criminal law well evidences the confusion of values or the lack of weighting that pass both in the diploma of the Left Block and in the Liberal Initiative. It will also be against the proposal of the Liberal Initiative to give the French authorities the power to ban establishments for the sale or provision of non-medical cannabis, a flagrant offensive to freedom of establishment and to the autonomy of the private initiative that that that young party says so much to defend! Already in criminal records, the two diplomas present identical solutions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, just three years ago, this Parliament approved, by a very large majority, the law through which the use of medicinal products, preparations and substances on the basis of the cannabis plant for medicinal purposes was admitted and regulated. The Social Democratic Party, which voted in favour of that law, does not revert to prohibitionisms when social behaviors of an intrinsically individual nature are involved. We are a social-democratic and reformist party based on personalist and humanist values. We believe in a ethic of responsibility, based on freedom of choice and on which each one assumes the consequences of his personal choices. However, we do not ignore the risks that consumption without medical prescription and for purposes other than medicines, especially in the case of continued consumption, may have for human health, particularly in terms of mental disorders, such as schizophrenia or the occurrence of psychotic outbreaks. We even consider, and reiterate it in front of us, that the non-therapeutic consumption of cannabis is negative for human health. Nevertheless, we do not reject the discussion of this matter, being prepared and available for serious reflection, based on scientific evidence, responsibility and political balance, therefore rejecting the radicalism of some and the social manipulation desired by others. This can undoubtedly be an opportunity to reflect on the impacts that a paradigm shift could have on consumers and on society itself, not escalating, on the other hand, the effects that this change could have on public health. If so, you also know today that the Portuguese Parliament is up to your duty! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u21	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legalization of cannabis for recreational use is not a new discussion in this Chamber. In 2018, it was brought here by the Left Block and the PAN and at the time the CDS presented its position that since then has not changed. We are dealing with an essentially technical and scientific issue that, in the context of the pandemic, and in the current public and social health situation, seems to us all less pressing or relevant. But, of course, it is up to each political party to define their priorities and the CDS to present the debate. In public health, technical rigour, clarity and responsibility are required of the legislator. Aware that we do not have an absolute truth, we support our position in a set of facts. First, there are not enough epidemiological studies that prove that cannabis is harmless and that its consumption does not have serious health consequences. Secondly, there is abundant scientific literature on the health risks of cannabis use. In the short term, it is associated with memory changes, making it difficult to learn and retain information, changes in motor coordination, increasing the risk of traffic accidents, critical judgment changes, increasing the risk of sexual behavior, themselves at risk, and even an increase in the appearance of psychotic outbreaks. In the long term, there is a compromise of cognitive function, affecting the IQ (Intelligent) and a decrease in satisfaction with the value of life. And if daily consumption starts during adolescence, there is a real risk of addition. Thirdly, psychiatrists and other health professionals alert us to the cases of young people and adults who, already today, give way to the emergencies of our hospitals with psychotic episodes, some serious, due to the use of cannabis. Moreover, they alert to the strong relationship between cannabis consumption and the development of schizophrenia in people who already have genetic fitness. We are told that intensive cannabis consumption can induce anxious-depressive and psychotic symptoms with manifestations such as visual hallucinations, auditory and tactile, delirious thoughts and loss of notion of reality. And here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I cannot help but make a parenthesis on mental health, which has been affirmed by all as a priority of these times, but ultimately totally forgotten in these projects. Fourthly, the position of SICAD, DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ), some professional orders and associations of doctors and Catholic jurists, which alert to the risks and the absence of benefits in recreational cannabis consumption will be recorded. Even in January this year, in the presentation of the SICAD Annual Report, Mr.Director-General said in response to the CDS that legalization for medicinal purposes would have contributed to the wrong idea of a 'lower risk' in the consumption of these substances, that recent data do not point to a reduction of negative effects and that rather than normalisation should work to reduce cannabis consumption. Fifth and last, it is important to remember that only in four countries this type of use is possible: Uruguay, Canada, South Africa and Georgia, adding some areas of the Netherlands, with specific conditions, and 15 US States In the case of Uruguay, and eight years after legalisation, it is true that greater control of the content and the quality of substances is observed, but it is also true that there is a significant increase in consumption. For all this, the CDS cannot agree with the legalization of the cannabis for personal use. If the recreational consumption of cannabis does no good to anyone, if the effects are serious and harmful and can destroy lives, if it is not a priority in today's society, what is proposed by the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative will not be accompanied by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u23	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Sá Pereira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, we were certain when in 2000 we promoted a broad debate on the National Drug Control Strategy, which realized a humanist conviction, which takes into account the complexity of human dramas that often translate into drug use and its dependence, which considers drug addicts essentially as a patient and which, therefore, should be guaranteed access to treatment facilities for all those who want to be treated. 21 years ago, the decriminalization of drug use was discussed in this Parliament. During the debate, and before the Members' calls for our country to carry out this path, CDS Member Paulo Portas said: « Fear is what you are provoking». This diploma counted on the vote against the CDS and also, now, the PSD, and today we can safely state that neither fear nor disaster. All the prophecies have capitulated. First, the argument was that Portugal would become a consumer paradise at alarming levels, with uncontrolled urban insecurity—it failed! Then the argument was that consumption levels would rise sharply because of the incentive that the law created—it also failed! The drug strategy we have carried out is an internationally recognized success. So this is precisely the time to think about what we want to do, two decades later, and what steps we want to continue to take in the fight against dependence. President Jorge Sampaio said in 2014, and allow me to quote : « Regulation means taking control so that governments can decide on the availability or availability of different substances in different contexts ». Is it important to reduce the damage and risks caused by cannabis consumption? It is. Is it essential to ensure that consumption becomes safer by ensuring effective control over all phases of the process? It is. Is it urgent to correct the move behind the Supreme Court of Justice in 2008 when it established the jurisprudence that there is a consumption crime based on the possession of a certain quantity of drugs? It is. of our part, we continue to make contributions to the improvement of the one known throughout the world as the Portuguese model. So, honourable Member, the question I ask you is the following: does the CDS-PP want to be on the same side of history that you tried to write in 2000 or, this time, knowing the good results in this matter, is available to discuss the protection of cannabis consumers without complexes and ideological stigmas? [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u25	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u26	Mr President, Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, thank you for your question. If you have listened carefully to me, as I imagine you have done, you have heard me say that neither I nor the CDS have assumed the right to absolute truth, but that we support our position in the best facts we know. So it doesn't seem to me to be an ideological or prejudiced reading that we bring here, and it seems to me to be good to know how to respect the differences with which each one evaluates the same picture. Having said this, I would like to tell you that at this particular moment the CDS is not alone and isolated in this position. As I said, even this week, except for error in the news today, Mr. Director-General of SICAD, who seems to me to be not only a non-retrograde person, as well as quite informed about the current situation of drug use in Portugal — and now of another type of dependence — comes to say that he does not see evidence that we are more effective in a legalization framework than in the current framework. He also said that some legal substances are those that cause major health problems in Portugal and that perhaps we did not gain so much in legalizing as it would be desirable. So, Mrs. Member, I don't know who's right. Time will tell, but right now it is the best information we have and it is based on it that we take up our position today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal, 20 years ago, innovated by approving the decriminalization of drug use — it has been said here. He introduced a national strategy for combating drugs and integrated drug addiction in the field of prevention, risk reduction, treatment, social reintegration, the deterrence of drug addiction which was based on a strong discussion with national experts, institutions and international opinions under the coordination — it has also been mentioned here — by Prof. Alexandre Quintanilla, who greets and to whom I thank this extraordinary work that he has done for Portugal. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We are today a global reference, because we are innovating in maintaining drug use as an illegal one, having removed the criminal dignity from it, but continuing to point out the devaluation of the act, through administrative censorship, in respect for the international conventions to which we were, and we continue to be bound. We innovate in regard to drug addicts as a patient who needs treatment and not as a criminal who must go to prison. We innovate because we broke the repressive paradigm, we adopted an open perspective to complexity, pragmatic, free from prejudice, respecting the dignity of the human person, whose aim was to safeguard the health, safety of people and the social reintegration of drug addicts. We assume, without fear, the risk reduction programs that saved many lives and brought drug addicts closer to the health system, with visible results at the level of reducing HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases, with visible gains for the health of consumers, but also for the health of all of us. It was a model that dropped the social stigma and promoted the social reintegration and treatment of drug addicts; a model that also saw strengthened its ability to arrest and combat trafficking; a model of dejudicialization of consumption, with the creation of commissions to deter drug addiction throughout the country, an absolutely innovative strategy to bring drug addicts closer to the health system. As never before, a distinction was made between use and abuse. In other words, a humanist and pragmatic model was made, that we were very proud of. Fernando Henriques Cardoso, former President of Brazil and the Global Commission on United Nations Drug Policies, has even claimed that the national drug policy in Portugal represents a real change in the paradigm of international drug policy, reveals a humanist and efficient alternative to merely repressive actions that, in addition to useless, violate basic human rights such as the right to health and social reintegration. Twenty years later, it makes sense, yes, to revisit this model and update it with the prudence and scientific rigor that it presided over its implementation and its elaboration. New advances were recently introduced with the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes, accompanying best international practices and WHO recommendations on the therapeutic potential of cannabis in the treatment of pain and other clinical situations. The cannabis has been removed from Table IV, but is included in Table I of the UN Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs to facilitate its accessibility to research and development for the necessary preparations and related to its medical use. The bills that the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative present to us today to legalize, liberalize the cannabis for personal use, despite the goodness of the principles in which they sit, in our understanding they lack further deepening and discussion. In the context of international experiments on cannabis use regulation, so far existing data are scarce and existing data show non-linear effects with regard to the risks associated with consumption. We still do not have acceptable consumption standards, nor appropriate dosages for the use of cannabis involving lower risk, contrary to what happens to other substances. We know, however, that this is the most consumed drug and the one that leads to greater demand for treatment by consumers. According to the recommendations resulting from the different internal and external evaluations carried out at national plans, Portugal should continue to implement, as it has done so far, policies based on available scientific evidence, in order to protect its citizens and its citizens, particularly young people, by placing health and well-being at the centre of a balanced approach to the drug problem. I would also like to say that the scientific evidence in which you have established our national strategy is the absence of distinction between light drugs and heavy drugs, so any new advances cannot, nor should we believe, be made on the edge of this acquired scientific strategy in which, in fact, you have settled our strategy by not hierarching drugs for the definition of risk consumption. 'Limit drugs' is a designation which has long been rejected in the technical and scientific fields and which we also reject. We also believe that any further progress in consumption should be accompanied by a strong prevention strategy that allows young people and at least young people to refuse harmful and risky consumption, even when they can do so. In other words, there must be a strong balance between supply reduction and demand reduction, as is also recommended by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. Portugal and the PS have a long tradition of not being afraid to face challenges in the area of drugs, but the precautionary principle must guide today, as happened in the past, any improvement of the current strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u29	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the previous legislation, the NAP presented a bill that intended to enable the planting, acquisition and consumption of the cannabis plant for medical purposes through medical prescription and availability in the pharmacy. This project also provided for authorisation for the autoculture of cannabis, in which the health authorities would be responsible for the analysis of the application and their decision. Law No 33 / 2018 regulates the use of medicinal products, preparations and substances based on the cannabis plant for medicinal purposes. Having yet to improve access to these medicines, this does not mean that the path has not been made. It was also established that the State should stimulate and support scientific research on the cannabis plant and that, through the services and agencies integrated in the Ministry of Health and other entities of the sector, it should promote information on medicinal products, preparations and substances based on the cannabis plant for medicinal purposes. Currently, the existence of an unregulated consumption of cannabis for non-medical purposes is known and is expanding. Psychiatrist Luís Patrício stated in 2019 that as many drugs as now have never been consumed and that the consumption of cannabis of unknown quality has never been like now. Today morning it was also referred to by the social communication that the autoculture grew in front of the other years after the closure of borders, as well as the seizure of large quantities of cannabis by the competent authorities. In Portugal, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, not being a crime to consume cannabis, it is a crime to acquire or cultivate this plant, so those who consume must necessarily resort to trafficking networks, clandestine markets or then venture to grow and be condemned. Data from 2015 show that in our country, of more than 10,300 counter-ordination processes applied by drug use, 85% were related to cannabis. There is clearly a very considerable risk here when, in order to acquire this plant, consumers have to use organized traffic networks and clandestine markets, thus being subject to pressure for the acquisition and experimentation of other types of narcotics, being this facilitating exposure of other kinds of consumption, leading to other addictions, with high health risks, since there is, on the part of these contexts, no concern other than business and profit. Still from the safety point of view, autoculture is seen as a fundamental alternative to consumption through traffic networks, by interrupting the financing circuit of these networks, which are currently going to seek about half of their profits for the sale of cannabis. at the health level, it is necessary to reduce the risk of buying products without any quality control, potentially adultery, processed and transported under unhealthy and inadequate conditions. If legalized and regulated, autoculture is thus an unquestionable weapon to combat illicit traffic networks. By remaining in the sphere of prohibition, consumers are prevented not only from producing for their own consumption, but also from being able to control the quality and power of the substance they consume. It is therefore essential to regulate autoculture at the same time as promoting responsible knowledge and consumption practices, allowing consumers to become more informed and can consume the unadulterated, unprocessed, or transported under unhealthy conditions. Furthermore, psychiatrist Luís Patrício recommends the following to this House: « The legislator should consider that the consumption of grass, of a predefined content, produced in an autoculture for individual use, would be less serious for the consumer and society». The proposals presented here clearly differ in the way the market understands, in the definition of marketing prices, in the distance of sales sites to younger populations and in the number of plants authorised for autoculture. The NAP believes that, as a matter of debate in the field of expertise, it is necessary to have an in-depth debate, in particular with regard to the analysis of sales sites, which we will seek to contribute with proposals for amendments. With regard to autoculture, we believe that the possibility of using the seeds of the previous harvest by consumers should be equalized and the certification and traceability of the products marketed will not only ensure quality and safety, but also the possibility of monitoring and tracking production and sale in the event of defects or adultery. Given the associated psychotropic effects, age should be scientifically defined from which the risks to neurological development are minimal in the light of current scientific knowledge. There is therefore a debate and a way to go in the field of expertise and we understand that as long as this consumption is not regulated, it is essential to invest in the implementation of projects such as the CHECK project! N, created in 2006 by the APDOES ( Piaget Development Agency), which aims to inform consumers of what they are consuming, with a view to making consumption informed, responsible and conscious. [[Congratulations on the PAN and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u31	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor. Ms. Mariana Silva (PEV). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing two legislative initiatives, more specifically, two bills relating to the legalization of cannabis use for personal use. First of all, it is important to make it clear that the Greens Ecological Party considers that, in the discussion of this matter, it is very important to separate two elements, which in our perspective take very different dimensions: on the one hand, the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes and on the other hand, its recreational or personal consumption, as you would like to designate. The topic that is currently under discussion is no longer new, as you all know, and when projects related to the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes were discussed Greens voted in favour of controlled and prescribed consumption by doctors. As far as recreational use is concerned, personal use, and the possibility of cultivation is another issue. over the course of time, Portugal has been making a path in this area that we have valued, a path based on an internationally recognized policy, with remarkable results, which only go further because of lack of means. Today, the recreational and personal use, including the possibility of cultivation, returns to the discussion, but the Greens will maintain their position of vote on the drafts of the previous legislature, i.e. abstention. We recognize that in this discussion there are valid arguments on one side and on the other and, being sensitive to these various arguments, the Greens understand that legalization is not effectively a strategy for reducing consumption, but to prohibit without a reduction and treatment strategy also does not produce results with this objective. On health effects, there are also studies for all tastes. One issue that must also be put on the table and discussed, given its relevance, is that of trafficking in the criminal world versus security in acquisition and consumption. On the other hand, there are concerns that are also legitimate. We refer, for example, to concerns such as those relating to facilitation in the provision of cannabis, to experiences that are made in relation to this product, whether or not they can lead to and incite other types of addictions and addictions. Let us recall the words of the Order of Physicians, which, recognizing, and I quote, "there is strong evidence of the effectiveness of cannabis in some therapeutic uses", warns that "its prescription should be exclusively medical as a drug, not in the form of smoking", adding that "the possible legal changes(...) should not neglect the potential public health risks, including abuse in its use as a recreational drug". Nor do we ignore the fact that there are multinationals with economic interests in the legalization of cannabis. This is an element which for the Greens Ecological Party is relevant and should therefore be considered in this discussion. The debate we are having today seems to us out of time. In the previous discussion, the Parliamentary Group on Greens defended the imperative need to deepen the debate on this subject before any legislative decisions have been taken and this has not yet been done. All of a sudden, we do the discussion without discussing the consequences of the so-called self-consumption production and manipulation of elements that can be harmful, without discussing the state structures dedicated to combating all the dependence and the consequences that this has on the lives of thousands of young people, without discussing strategies to reduce consumption of these and other substances and without even debating in depth their effects and the rights of those who want to consume and consider themselves capable of doing so with responsibility. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are multiple arguments and the Greens are sensitive to them. So we abstain. A position that the Greens take as a form of caution in the progress we want to promote, but also as a predisposition for the more in-depth debate to take place here in the Assembly of the Republic. And we hope that this will happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u32	Mr. Miguel Matos, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It has now been exactly 20 years since Portugal began a new paradigm in the fight against drugs. We were the first in the world to treat drug addiction and consumption as a matter of public health and not a criminal problem. The results of this early public political disagreed with all the criticisms, which are repeated today in the mouth of the right. Drug use has decreased, health problems associated with drug use have decreased and the success of the Portuguese model has made us an international example, mentioned not only in scientific publications as by international leaders, from Barack Obama to Kofi Annan. This reform, voted on in this House, was based on science, confronted with prejudices and addressed the existence of drug use instead of pretending that the problem disappears by banning itself. But 20 years later, his spirit must lead us to take it as a starting point and not a point of arrival, because the humanist conviction that led us to decriminalize cannot sleep restless with the subjection of consumption to organized crime or to the insecurity of products. This is because, if the concern is public health, then it cannot be better clandestineness, where they proliferate adulterated products and where the consumption of drugs can be — and often is — the gateway to other drugs that are more harmful to human health, but also because, 20 years later, we can have more convictions about the risk that these consumption represents to society and about the impact of legalization of non-medical consumption on our health. According to SICAD, 10 % of the Portuguese population has already consumed cannabis at least once in their lives and 4, 5 % consumes at least once a year. According to the same SICAD, in the last decade only one death associated with cannabis consumption and 63 associated with the consumption of cannabis cross with other substances was observed. In turn, only in 2018 did 2493 people die with the reason attributed to alcohol. We do not want to say that cannabis consumption presents any risk. Adding and consuming all drugs are a public health problem. Any legalization strategy must have associated a strategy for the prevention and treatment of addition. Legalization is neither, nor can it be, synonymous with liberalization, and that should be obvious. What is important to say is, on the other hand, that the greatest risk to public health, at present, is not the consumption of cannabis itself, at moderate doses, but the passage of cannabis through trafficking, crime, product insecurity, access to heavier drugs, a problem that we can control, that we should control, and we will only be able to do so through legalization and regulation. This is a conviction of the Socialist Youth that we have defended and substantiated for years. At the beginning of the year, we launched the appeal to make this 20. the anniversary of decriminalization the year of step forward for legalization. We spoke about this once in a while and not only welcome the initiatives of the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative, not only say we are present, as we say we have concrete proposals that we will not fail to present and for which we do not abdicate to fight. In good time, this was a process that the Block and the Liberal Initiative wanted to open, with time and space for debate and reflection. The Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to listen to society and specialists and, like 20 years ago and so many other initiatives, to arrive at a good law that legalizes cultivation, trade and consumption. We should take this opportunity to demystify what legalization would be. The cultivation, for example, would always need to be controlled and tracked, from its origin, the seed, to the implementation of good agricultural practices and the distribution of the product. The transformation requires caution and a careful look at Infarmed. This could not manipulate the plant to exceed certain concentrations, nor add other psychoactive substances or additives that confirm taste, aromas or color. Trade would always be in authorised places and have its own and demanding regulations. We must demand robust monitoring systems and ensure that this activity, which already exists, is contributing economically to society, that it pays taxes like all of us and that it creates jobs. If we legalize cannabis, we will be creating a primary, secondary and tertiary sector, allowing new crops to our farmers, stimulating transformation for medical purposes and legalizing retail outlets for personal consumption. The economic potential is truly transforming: between 2014 and 2018, the first four years of legalization in the state of Colorado, which has only about half of our population, the cannabis industry generated 6 billion euros. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 20 years later, we can once again be an example for the world, showing that in Portugal political action and legislative initiative are above the prejudices of the 20th century. If we do, we will follow a path initiated by Canada, Uruguay, Georgia, South Africa, 17 states and 2 territories of the United States of America and the capital districts of both the United States and Australia. But if you want a reason for legalization, do so by the Portuguese: one in 10 Portuguese has already had to come into contact with organized crime to buy cannabis, facing insecurity and especially lack of quality control, with increased health risks. What is required to ask is: why? Why do we subject the Portuguese to that? Are we really protecting the Portuguese? Are we really looking out for public health or are we just going to settle in front of prejudices and stereotypes? The rewards we have received over the reform of 20 years should not leave us complacent, because the evidence is evolving, prejudices will dilute and trade and consumption will change. We must face the legalization of the cannabis without complacency or prejudice. Today, let's start this process. Young socialists here will be struggling for responsible legalization, convinced that it contributes to consumer safety and public health. It is time to act for public health, it is time to act for security, it is time to act for growth, it is time to act for freedom, it is time to act for legalization! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u34	Mr Fabian Figueiredo, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u35	Mr President, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, would you like to congratulate him on his speech and ask him a brief question: does he not understand that the greatest risk to Portuguese society is to keep everything as it is?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u36	To reply, Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fabian Figueiredo, in Portugal, we have in fact a very advanced model if we compare it with a number of other countries at international level. We have a system that decriminalized the consumption of all drugs and which, on the basis of this, has succeeded in achieving a reduction of the health problems associated with it, while consumption, contrary to what the right says, has not increased. But we cannot hide that, in fact, the current system has risks to health and safety. If we look sincerely and seriously at the problem, we find that, often, the health and safety problems related to drug use are associated with the sites where drugs are bought—in the underground and clandestine markets in our country—are associated with organized crime. That is why the Socialist Youth believes it is important to start this process of discussion, of debate, of reflection in order to achieve a good law, in keeping with our international obligations with our responsibility for Portuguese health and safety. It is important that we actually manage to regulate the personal consumption of cannabis, bring about trade in underground markets, so worrying, for legality and, indeed, contribute to growth, employment and more security and public health. [[P.S. and BE Fabian Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u38	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We often debate in the Assembly of the Republic the question of the legalization of cannabis for recreational purposes in our country. Today, two initiatives are under discussion that propose the legalization of cannabis, one of the Left Block and one of the Liberal Initiative. We find that the legalization of cannabis for recreational purposes that has been the focus of debate raises numerous questions and concerns and that there is still no consensus in the scientific community on the most appropriate path to achieve the objective of reducing cannabis consumption in the general population and, I would stress here, in young people and young adults. We are faced with a complex problem, which requires a weighting on its impacts in all its dimensions, in which public health issues take particular importance. There are already experiences worldwide of legalization of cannabis consumption for recreational purposes that should be appreciated and therefore we must realize what their evolution in public health and their social impacts are. As regards the fight against drug addiction and drug reduction in our country, in fact, we have made very significant progress at the beginning of this century. A strategy was followed whose adoption allowed a very positive set of results in our country and that it is important to deepen and continue. Since reference has been made to this subject in this debate, let me also give some notes on this issue. The truth is that our strategy to combat drug addiction has been based on three aspects that would stand out. On the one hand, the change in legislation was, in fact, predominant in this matter, leaving the use of drugs to be in the crime paradigm to become in the health paradigm and, on the other hand, it was preponderant to look at this population as a population that needs follow-up, treatment and a specific approach to its problem. This has indeed been a great advance in our country. Secondly, it is also important to bear in mind the creation of committees for the deterrence of drug addiction, something which is, we can even say, creative and innovative in our country. The third aspect, no less important, was the fact that the policy of combating drug addiction was based on a coherent model of intervention which combined a set of aspects: prevention, deterrence, risk reduction, harm minimization, treatment and reintegration. He said it was 'joined' and it was not a matter of detail, because unfortunately, during the PSD/CDS-PP government this coherence was destroyed with the sharing of the areas of intervention between the creation of the SICAD and the fact that all areas of concrete intervention have been referred to the ARS (regional health administrations) which led to the destruction of our country's response. It is also regrettable that during the governance of the Socialist Party this problem has not yet been resolved and that, in fact, it has not been advanced for a claim on the part of not only the workers in this area, but also of the group of specialists who accompany the issues of drug dependence in the direction of creating a single structure, with autonomy, which allows the whole of this intervention to be incorporated. I would like to make it very clear that the issue is not that of the reactivation of the RTD ( Institute for Drugs and Drug Addiction ). What is important is that in our country we have a coherent, coherent policy-based structure that will actually allow a broad response to this issue. That, today, has been lost. Furthermore, SICAD reports effectively reveal this difficulty, including in a statistical and official data plan. In fact, from north to south of the country, there is a differentiated approach based on regional health administrations and their perception of intervention in this problem. Mr President, it is important to keep in mind in this debate that the legalization of consumption of a substance which is not harmless is proposed. Cannabis is a psychoactive substance and, therefore, is like the other psychoactive substances. We follow the perspective that has already been put here, namely that the concepts of 'hard drugs' and 'light drugs' have been abandoned and that there are, in fact, drugs with health consequences for those who consume them. According to several studies, there is strong evidence that cannabis can induce psychotic symptoms in people with predisposition to develop schizophrenia or other behavioral disorders. Moreover, the consumption of cannabis, especially by the younger ones, may lead to changes in the normal process of developing the nervous system. Cannabis consumption has evolved in a worrying way and official data on this reality in our country reveal that cannabis is the most consumed legal substance. We can refer to the data contained in the last report on the drug situation in the country, which are very significant. For example, in the IV National Survey of Psychoactive Substances in the General Population, referring to the years 2016 - 2017, cannabis was once again the illegal substance with the highest prevalence of consumption throughout life and a substance of recent and current consumption, whether in the total population, between 15 and 74 years of age, whether in the young and young adults population, between 15 and 34 years of age. More, between 2012 and 2016 - 2017, there was an increase in these prevalences, particularly in recent and current consumption. throughout the report there are, in fact, several data that will give this reference to aggravation of the more intensive consumption of cannabis and also of a great prevalence, for example, among young people who have completed 18 years of age. There are, in fact, several elements that account for this reality. The report also states that among the new treatment users there is an increase in cannabis users, which indicates that users understand that their consumption is a problem, which is harmful to their health, taking the initiative to reach a health and treatment service. The European Drug Report of 2021, published and released today, shows that cannabis consumption remains stable but at high levels. This reality requires greater intervention in the area of prevention. Prevention is of paramount importance to achieve the goals of reducing cannabis consumption in the school population, in the young adult population and in the general population. Intervention in the area of prevention should adopt specific strategies aimed at specific target audiences, which will be more effective. Perhaps we can say that the success of the fight against cannabis consumption will depend on the effectiveness of investment in prevention. The truth is that prevention is repeatedly the poor relative in terms of intervention and concrete action, as well as the means allocated to it. Official data on cannabis consumption impose a different look on the whole dimension of prevention, which is manifestly insufficient and must assume greater relevance. At the initiative of the CFP, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 33 / 2018, which makes a set of recommendations to the Government, including the promotion of public investment in prevention by adopting concrete and specific measures aimed at each population group in order to prevent the harmful use of cannabis, and the strengthening of the financial, technical and human resources of the public services in the area of drug addiction, in particular with a view to reverting the frame of worsening the consumption of cannabis. In view of the situation in our country, it is important that this recommendation be implemented. Priority should be given to strengthening the means, public services in the area of additive behaviour and dependence, street teams, priority intervention programmes. At present, with the elements available to us, we understand that the most appropriate solution to combat negative evolution in cannabis consumption passes through investment in prevention, treatment, risk reduction and harm minimization and reintegration, ensuring adequate response capacity to the requirements and implementing the creation, as I said, of a single structure, with administrative and financial autonomy, in the area of additive behaviors and dependencies. We therefore do not follow the initiatives under discussion today in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u40	Mrs Elza Pais, do you have an interest in making a request for clarification, since Mrs Paula Santos no longer has time?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u41	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u42	I now give the floor to Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must begin by saying, in this debate, what the left does not mean on this subject: it does not mean that only Uruguay and Canada would be equal to the regime that would be approved today; it does not mean that the health risks arising from the approval of cannabis consumption for recreational purposes, either at the level of the central nervous system, either at the level of cancer risks, or at the level of respiratory problems, are recognised by everyone today, including by the Portuguese Doctors' Order. After all, the Order of Doctors only serves when it matters because, when it does not agree with us, it is already to put in the drawer and forget. What the left doesn't mean is that drug use is increasing brutally in our younger class, that drug use deaths continue to increase in Portugal, as they have even increased last year and as they are on their way to increase this year. What the left doesn't mean to the country is that daily or almost daily consumption, which means dependence, has been increasing every year that passes and that the solution we present to the country is to legalize the consumption and recreational use of these drugs. It is the same as saying « if the State cannot, then we shall liberalise », « if the State cannot, then we shall legalise ». It would be the same as saying "if we fail to resolve prostitution, we legalise it all and without problems", "if we cannot solve terrorism, why don't we do the same thing? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But it is not so hard to hear the left to talk about it, it is more difficult to hear something right, tolerant with this spirit on the left, to promise to open the doors to what you want to do against the families, against the Portuguese who, every day, suffer the scourge of drugs on our streets. There are two rights in Portugal: there is always a right available to give your hand to the left and to the extreme left and to say that you are there to liberalize drugs, to liberalize prostitution, to liberalize everything to liberalize, and there is another right...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u44	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u45	I will finish, Mr. President. I said that there is another right that will fight for families, for work, for the Portuguese of good, that will fight against this intolerable spirit of destruction of society and for the protection of families. They're counting on us! We will fight here, on the streets and everywhere against this spirit of destruction of good Portugal and the Portuguese of good.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u46	Mr Fabian Figueiredo, you have the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u47	I can't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u48	Mr President, we give you 15 seconds to arrive to respond to the Left Block. Mr President, what Mr. André Ventura here does not say is that the legalization of the cannabis would be a severe blow to organized crime, as Judge Carlos Alexandre has already publicly warned, who defends the legalization of the cannabis. That is what the honourable Member here has forgotten to mention! In addition, Mr André Ventura, there are two aspects in the position of the Arrival which I and this Chamber certainly do not understand. Mr President, you have already publicly admitted that you were a consumer; the substance you consumed certainly came from an illegal seller. Do you think this is the way to ensure consumer safety? Second question: do you think that anyone who consumes what you have consumed should always be required to have a medical and psychological framework? In your case, would you rather that have been imposed on you? Magnificent inconsistency! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u49	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since this has been an intervention, we continue to make more speeches. [[Pause.]] Mr President, did you make an intervention or a question? Sir, we have no more time!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u50	Mr President, we gave Mr Ventura 15 seconds to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u51	Mr. President, the Left Block has allocated to the Arrival 15 seconds for the reply to the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u52	But that's not enough, because the honourable Member has a deficit of 1 minute and 8 seconds. So it has to be 1 minute and 8 seconds plus 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u53	Mr. President, we have a budget for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u54	Mr. President, I will ask for the floor to defend the honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u55	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u56	I am not saying that I did not smoke, Mr, do not worry. I'm not like the Left Block! [[Laughing.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are watching today — hilarious! — my former opponent to the elections to the City Hall of Loures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u57	He's not an old opponent! The opposition keeps going!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u58	... with a rather inferior result... However, I have to say this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u59	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for having resumed the normal functioning of the plenary session and for you, in fact, to make a defense of honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u60	Mr President, I already assume — you have read this interview and I thank you for bringing it here — but, Mr, I have already gone over 120 km/h on the road and that is why I do not argue that we should all legally be able to walk over 120 km/h on the road. Who hasn't sinned to shoot the first stone! The moralists of the Left Block, always ready to throw stones at others but who are the main predators, come here today to say: "The right-wing man has already consumed drugs, what a horror! May this plenary fall upon it, when we are defending the legalization of drugs». [[BE's protests.]] What you're saying is that you've never walked without a mask on the street, that you've never walked 120 km/h, or more, on a highway! But that is not why we argue that this should be legal. The difference between us, Mr President, is that the arrival defends what is right for society, even assuming that there are individual failures, that we have and that we assume. I, sir, am not perfect, I will never be.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u61	She's just a hypocrite!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u62	You are not, either, nor are any Members of your bench, as you well know, it is. The difference between us is that I am humble enough to recognize when wrong, because error, and I am also humble to understand when we are defending the Portuguese outside, who see the families destroyed with the drug problem, who see their cities infested with a crime that continues to destroy the social fabric, while those who say "it ends with organized crime" simply say "Mr. Member has already consumed'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u63	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u64	I will finish, Mr. President. I have already said so, Mr President, I have brought nothing back to this debate: already, I already consume, I am arrested and thrown stones at me because of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u65	It's prison!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u66	Mr. Fabian Figueiredo, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u67	Mr President, I have nothing to answer to Mr Ventura's statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u68	I'll calm down, I'll ask the gentlemen. Members who have entrusted me with the possibility of the recreational use of the word, in the proper sense of the term, to congratulate Mr Prof. Alexandre Quintanilla, who was someone I crossed with when I performed functions in this area and with whom, agreeing on some things and disagreeing on others, I learned a lot. Thank you very much. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Now, using the word institutionally, I give the floor, for an intervention, to Mr Alexandre Quintanilla.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u69	Mr President, I am grateful for the kind words you have spoken to me. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said and there is little more to be added. The Bills of the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative focus on the issue of the legalization of cannabis for personal use. The arguments are strong in defending this legalization. However, the World Health Organization's recommendation to transfer cannabis and cannabis resin from List IV to List I of the so-called Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs makes it clear that the aim is not to authorize its recreational consumption but rather to stimulate the progress of collective knowledge of the therapeutic usefulness of cannabis and the harmful effects associated with its consumption, this knowledge is essential to strengthen confidence in the strategies to implement. In the area of health, current scientific evidence on cannabis shows that its consumption is associated with a wide range of widely documented effects in humans, which can range from simple changes in short-term memory and reduction of concentration capacity to crisis anxiety and panic reactions, and, in the longer term, the carcinogenicity of smoking components, induction of psychosis and schizophrenia and the risk of dependence, which increases among those who start consumption in adolescence. These effects—and I would like to stress this— do not affect all consumers, and some of them only affect a small minority, but while for alcohol the risk associated with their use can be determined by quantities, we still do not have that information regarding cannabis. Perceiving the variability of these effects requires further studies in extended and diversified populations. It takes time and we are still far from having the relevant data for a robust and less information-based citizen literature. Currently, in Europe, cannabis is responsible for more treatment requests for the first time in the treatment of additive behaviors than any other illegal substance. In Portugal, 54% of the new users in treatment pointed to cannabis as the main drug. Portugal has achieved an unusual international prestige with its drug policy implemented when it was Prime Minister Eng.António Guterres and President of the Republic Dr. Jorge Sampaio — both socialists. We continue to be a global reference in this area, with a media visibility that, over 20 years, has not stopped growing. This policy, far from being perfect, was the result of an intense multidisciplinary and inclusive work of several specialists, for almost five months, and with an important citizen involvement. Why not a similar strategy regarding the different uses of cannabis? The emphasis on personal freedom or awareness of consumption that these bills defend deserves better contextualization. What we learned during this pandemic was to voluntarily sacrifice our freedom to protect the « other ». In the case of cannabis, everything indicates that we have not yet left this stage. The PS considers that these bills deserve a deeper analysis at the appropriate location. I am glad that the Left Block and the Liberal Initiative have called for the fall of the projects to the committee to allow this debate on the site itself. Mr President, I would like to end this speech with two more personal notes. The first to thank the references that have been made to me and to say that the merit is from the experts who worked in that Commission. When I was invited to chair this Commission, I laughed: « I know very little about this, I do not know why I am invited». The answer was very clever: 'It is precisely because we do not come up with ideas made that we want you to chair this Commission.' I have learned a lot from the Commission and I thank those who have taught me. The second note is perhaps more colloquial, but I would like to finish by saying the following: I am part of the Baby Boom generation, which lived intensely his youth in the 1960s, in Southern Africa and California. I saw groups like Beatles, Rolling Stones, The Who and singers like Bob Dylan, Janis Joplin and Joan Baez were born. at that time, many experienced the most varied substances, not always starting with cannabis, which was easy access in student and academic means. The short, medium and long-term effects were of the most diverse. I must be of the few who, for any reason, didn't have that curiosity at the time. I still remember many of my students want to take me to the mountains of California to eat « magic mushrooms». [[Laughing.]] Maybe one day, who knows? I've got time. [[P.S.'s applause, standing, and BE's.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u70	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said widely today, the decriminalization of possession for drug use in Portugal, approved in this House in 2001, acknowledged that additive behaviors are based on a health disorder. As such, it was assumed that the criminal way at nothing could contribute to the reduction of consumption, so such behaviors ceased to be the target of the crime process. Alternatively, consumption became a social counter-ordination and mechanisms were developed that sought to provide special help and support to the consumer. In contrast to fears at the time, there has not been an increase in consumption in Portugal compared with the other countries of the European Union, nor has there been an increase in the so-called narcotics tourism in our country. In fact, Portugal has become a global reference for the innovative nature of its legislation, for the reduction of the burden these cases represent in the judicial system, for the neutral impact it has had on consumption patterns and, above all, for taking the issue of dependencies as an individual and public health problem. Having returned 20 years after the approval of the law that described drug use, the legalization of cultivation, sale and consumption of cannabis has become a recurring issue at the national and international level, especially as a result of the lack of satisfactory results placed on the table by the banist route. On the other hand, there are more and more examples of countries and states that have abandoned the prohibitionist view of consumption, although with different models of market regulation, from cultivation to sale. As a result of these experiences in the real world, the scientific and medical community has been publishing more and more robust evidence on the impact of this drug consumption on everyone's health. Reports and articles have also been published that seek to analyse the consequences and possible lessons to be learned from experiments where the use of cannabis enjoys the status of legality. in a logic to promote a political discussion based on scientific evidence, it becomes undisturbed to recognize that today, for the first time, we have conditions to discuss seriously and sustain the proposals that aim to legalize the use of cannabis in Portugal. Although the subject, as we have already seen today, is driven by passions, we need a rational debate based on evidence and, above all, based on science. Moreover, the adverse effects on the health of this and other drugs, such as tobacco and alcohol, are recognized, even though, in an ideal world, we would like the levels of education and literacy for health to be sufficient for all consumption of these substances to be reduced to marginal values. However, today we have to legislate about the real world and we have to make it based on a public health perspective. With a view to an open and free debate based on science and not on dogmas, we must make a path based on the best technical opinions, together with the most diverse representatives of all society. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there will be greater market control, and the cannabis is one of the biggest sources of income for organised crime. Having said that, legalization of the use of cannabis will result in a breakdown of the main source of revenues of traffickers while protecting citizens, who become legal consumers of regulated and known composition products. We also expect a significant break in the activity of most criminals in the narcotics field, since most convictions are linked to violations related to traffic in cannabis and its derivatives. Portugal will be all the more efficient in combating drug trafficking and we will be able to have the means available to police authorities and criminal investigation. This is particularly important because Portugal continues to be an important transit point for international traffic. Still following recent changes, for example in American states, there has been a reduction in the consumption of cannabis derivatives, as well as in synthetic cannabis forms, whose impacts are unknown. For example, we can bet on a mandatory record for the purchase of cannabis, as in Uruguay, allowing government and public administration to monitor patterns of consumption, detect potential deviation patterns early and thus intervene in a timely manner. The regulated sale of cannabis will also generate an important source of tax revenue that can be used in combating drug trafficking, in preventing consumption, in treating addictions and in promoting health education policies. By way of regulation, I believe that the State will also be able to require that packaging containing cannabis be properly identified with warning messages on its potential adverse effects, prohibiting all forms of advertising and regulating the places of sale, as well as the entire production process. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate combines our concepts of freedom and responsibility and I believe that, at the stage of the specialization, with the contribution of all banks, we can come to legislation that translates what we want, a path that, at the end of the day, reduces the supply and consumption of drugs in our country, effectively combats trafficking, prevents and treats dependence better, increases levels of education and, above all, does not allow our society to continue to ignore a problem that we all know exists. What matters is to legislate in the best way to reduce drug use in the medium term. [[Congratulations from the PSD, BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u72	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS and in the process of conclusion of this debate, I would like to stress, above all, the speeches made here in a more realistic and less allucinogenic way, so to speak, or less enthusiastic. In fact, this debate is not much new, because the Left Block brings this to us for many years. The Left Block has been the great defender in Portugal of the legalization of drugs, adding - to it now the Liberal Initiative, which in turn, as has been said - and well! — in a certain manner against culture, a lot of it of American origin and adopted, even because of many political left that has always seen in this a fracturing theme, of those that the Block likes and that is fractured until not about much to fracture or that there is no more to leave, so to speak. But what I would like to say, on behalf of the CDS, and to conclude, is that, contrary to what the Left Block says and, above all, contrary to what the Liberal Initiative project says, drug use is not an issue of individual freedom nor can it be seen as an issue of individual freedom. It's not! It is a matter of responsibility and the drafts of the Block and the Liberal Initiative in this matter are, in our view, irresponsible. And they are irresponsible for several reasons, some of which were said here very modestly. I welcome, for example, Prof. Alexandre Quintanilla's intervention because, without giving us a definitive position, he has not stopped alerting us to the social and public health reasons that lead to our consideration of this matter, which are obvious and easy to understand. First of all, it was said here, and it was not for me, psychotic outbreaks, boosting situations of schizoid disorders—in some cases they did not appear unless it was for the consumption of this kind of drug—or even the emergence of schizophrenia; depressions, etc. , health problems that are identified and that occur. They do not happen to all, it is true, nor do they depend on the degree of consumption, as in alcohol, it is also true, but they are a real problem and a public health problem. Secondly and contrary to what has been said, especially by those who have come to defend that what is needed is to ensure that there is drugs and good, that it will be better for the country, because everything is much happier and, on the limit, they even pay more taxes, as we have heard, for example, from some of the youth parties, that is nothing that is at stake. What is at issue is exactly the opposite, i.e., that initiation in this type of legalized drugs can lead, in some cases, to an escalation of consumption. We're not sure about that, but that hypothesis has to be put on the table,... [[BE's protests.]] ... as also has to be put another hypothesis, which is that, when the Left Block, cheerfully, either greater drug use, what happens is that you are going to ban the use of drugs, and this, especially in youth, whether in young people, or even in university youth, has societal consequences, has consequences in training, has consequences in the family, has consequences, even from a school point of view. So all of this has to be seen and weighted. This is a model of society and public health. The doubts are many, the reservations are many and the critical opinions, including scientific, medical and other institutions, are many too. So what we say and stand for is only a realistic position.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u74	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u75	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we are holding our vote against for this very reason. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u76	We move on to the closing phase of the debate, through the Left Block, which will accumulate the time of 2 minutes and 23 seconds with the 2 minutes available for being the author of the initiative. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate and after, once again, the Left Block brings to the Assembly of the Republic a bill to legalize cannabis for non-medical purposes, for purposes of personal use, previously called recreational purposes, insists on some arguments which, from the point of view of the Block, have no basis. Therefore, in this closure, I would like to examine these arguments. The first is that legalization will result in uncontrolled, deregulated consumption, liberalized market, etc. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what exists now. Uncontrolled, dangerous consumption, where anyone can buy anywhere, without any rule, is what exists now. Let us not be hypocritical or assume that reality does not exist. Don't say you don't know that anywhere you can buy and sell, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. What happens today is that who decides who can buy and what can buy is the dealer and I think it shouldn't be like that. The Left Block doesn't think that's the way it should be. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u78	The second argument is that consumption has risks, including some aggravated risks to mental health, such as psychotic outbreaks, for example. It's true, but on the left side of the Block we never said consumption is harmless. What we say is that the danger is infinitely superior when consumption is made in an irregular manner. It is true that in recent years it has increased the number of people who arrive at emergencies with problems associated with the use of neocanabinoids because at the same time it has increased the concentration of THC in what is sold on the street. Why? Because often what is sold on the street is chemically and genetically manipulated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u79	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u80	Therefore, the risk that exists is that it is not regulated, it is not that it is used. The more deregulated the risk to individual health and public health increases. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not a debate about morals, morality, morality, use and individual consumption. This is a debate about whether society, the state, should regulate the use in order to reduce the risks to the user, in order to defend public health and also in order to promote national security. Kofi Annan had already said so and, in fact, Jorge Sampaio did it in these words: «Regulation means to take control of governments and not criminals to decide on the availability or availability of different substances ». That is what the Left Block proposes with this bill, that we take control of something that exists, of a reality that exists, but that, when it gets out of control, it is infinitely more dangerous for society and for the individuals who compose it. It is not by chance that those who have the most interest in deregulation are exactly criminal networks and traffickers. It is not by chance that those who have no interest in deregulation and illegalization are users and public health. In conclusion, this is not a debate about whether or not the charters will come to the Algarve or anywhere else. This is a debate on public health, it is a debate on national security and also on the individual rights of users. We do not define the choice of a person who decides to use a particular substance, but we must, as a society, define that such use should have the lowest risk associated with their health. This is the proposal of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u81	Finished that is the debate of Bill No. 863 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to report on an initiative which has now entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u82	Mr. President, I inform the House that you have entered into the Bureau draft Law No 863 / XIV / 2. the initiative of the Socialist Party. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u83	Mrs. Members, this initiative, which will begin to appear as Bill No 863 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), concerns the renewal of the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of mask in public spaces and is inscribed in the script for voting, and does not have time for discussion. We therefore move on to the last item on the agenda with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Let us wait only for the recomposition of the benches to do so. [[Pause.]] We begin by voting on a request by the PS to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a 30-day vote of the Proposal for a Law No 92 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Civil Procedure Code, the regulatory rules of the horizontal property regime, the procedure for fulfilling the emerging monetary obligations of contracts of value not exceeding the height of the court of 1. the Court and the Code of the Building Registry. Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 93 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other procedures related to the issue, delivery and use of the citizen card. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, as a result of this vote, the bill is lower than 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 854 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PAN) — Concretizes the right to the citizenship card for persons in a situation without shelter by amending Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 and Decree-Law No 135 / 99 of 22 April 2007. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 21 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Hellenic Republic on Defence Cooperation, signed in Lisbon on 12 October 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL, votes against BE and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, ENP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 22 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the European Organisation for Public Law for the Establishment of a Regional Office in Portugal, signed in Athens on 16 October 2020. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 23 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries signed in Lisbon on 18 December 2020 revising the Agreement on the Establishment of Community Headquarters in Portugal signed in Lisbon on 3 July 1998. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 24 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other hand, in Brussels on 19 October 2018. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] It is important to vote on two requests submitted by BE and IL respectively to the Health Commission without a 60-day vote of Bills Nos 859 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Legalizes the cannabis for personal use and 862 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Establishes the legalization of the cannabis. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote, in the overall speciality and finality of Bill No. 863 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Renews the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of masks in public spaces, extending for the third time the validity of Law No 62 -A / 2020 of 27 October. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against CH and IL and abstentions by BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1297 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the alienation of the New Bank, its transfer to the public sphere and specialized support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 603 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Established September 4 as the National Day of Sexual Health. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u84	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u85	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u86	Mr President, I would just like to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u87	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u88	Mr President, we shall also present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u89	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Resolution Project No. 1190 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends the Government to invest in digital transition in museums, palaces and monuments. With regard to this initiative, the PSD called for a point-by-point vote, and we will do so. We shall then vote on point 1 of that motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] The vote on point 2 shall follow. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Let us now vote on point 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP and the ENP.]] Resolution Project No. 1207 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends the fight against piracy of journalistic publications, contributing to a more independent and plural journalism. There is also a request by the PSD to vote on this initiative by points. We shall therefore first vote on point 3 of the motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes were cast against PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL, votes against non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PS and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote together on the remaining points of the draft resolution, namely points 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, PAN and PEV abstained.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1171 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — The requalification and reopening of the regional and interregional rail transport service in the Alentejo Litoral and Setúbal district. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We shall also vote in general on Resolution Project No 1244 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the replacement of the sites of stopping the Intercities in Setúbal and Alcácer do Sal and by the return of the regional service of the South Line, between Barreiro and Tunes. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We will vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 1270 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Reactivation of the South Line regional passenger service. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, these three draft resolutions which we have just adopted generally fall to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 657 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary linkage of all teachers with five or more years of service up to 2022. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u90	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u91	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u92	Mr President, I would just like to point out that, on this vote that we have just held, the Arrival will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u93	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 893 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the principle of equality in competition processes for the career of higher health technician in the field of clinical psychology, not discriminating their professionals. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 1165 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Reconstitution of the NUTS 3 Grande Lisboa and the Setúbal Peninsula under NUTS 2 AML. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution goes down to 13. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1262 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Access of the Setúbal Peninsula to the financing of projects by Community funds. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the PEV.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u94	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u95	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u96	Mr President, considering that the two draft resolutions we have just voted on are on the same subject, but only one has been approved, then, its vote is simple.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u97	Of course. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 831 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to increase treatment sharing in cancer patients and 935 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strategic approach and urgent measures to combat cancer. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft Law No 700 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Extends the deadline for cleaning fuel management networks in forest areas and prevents the fines provided for in Decree-Law No 124 / 2006 of 28 June from being doubled. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u98	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u99	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u100	Mr President, for a time I did not indicate that in relation to the vote on draft resolutions Nos 831 / XIV / 2. a e 935 / XIV / 2. the, the CFP will present a written declaration of vote, as it will do in relation to the Draft Resolution No 1190 / XIV / 2. a
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u101	It will be registered at the meeting, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u102	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u103	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u104	Mr President, I would like to request a waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of draft Law No 863 / XIV / 2. a, approved for a few moments ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u105	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr.Secretaria Sofia Araújo, who has some information to lend to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz de Instruction Criminal de Lisboa — Juiz 5, Case No 1071 / 20.9SILSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Ascenso Simões ( PS ) within the framework of the cars in question. I also refer to the fact that they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1318 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1330 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops 8. the Commission, 1331 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 1332 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 1333 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u107	We shall vote on the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members who have been read by the honourable Member. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. at the next plenary session on 16 June, a debate will take place with the Minister for Environment and Climate Action, under Article 224 ( b ) ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sofia Araújo will now read the names of Mr. Members who were present by video conference. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u108	Mr President, the following Mrs were present by video conference. Members: Lara Martinho, Carlos Pereira, Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara, of the PS ; Sara Madruga da Costa and Carlos Alberto Gonçalves, of the PS ; and Pedro Sousa, of the PS, who is in prophylactic isolation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-09.u109	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good job and a good holiday. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 23 minutes.]]
