ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, to whom I ask to open the doors to the public. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Before starting the agenda, which, as you know, has as a matter of general consideration of the Bill No 116 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some communications. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. I am now announcing the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members to authorize the suspension of the mandate of MP Filipa Roseta, PSD, being replaced by Joana Catarina Barata Reis Lopes, from 25 October 2021, including for a maximum of 180 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u3	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bill No. 998 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 1481 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1482 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1483 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR), 1484 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) and 1485 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u5	Let us then enter into the general assessment of the State budget for 2022. For an intervention, Mr Prime Minister, whom I welcome and all the members of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two questions that are required when considering a budget proposal: firstly, whether you have the right priorities in relation to the needs of the country and Portuguese; secondly, whether the proposal is consistent with the strategic vision we have for Portugal. The main priority of this budget proposal is, without a doubt, to support the country's growth and economic recovery through increased investment and family income. This is, of course, a business and investment-friendly proposal. Public investment will grow almost 30 % in the coming year, focusing mainly on public transport, education, health, defence and security. The strong dynamics of business investment, which had a historic peak in the first half of this year, is now reinforced by the creation of fiscal incentive for recovery. This incentive makes it possible to deduct 10 % of the investment made in the first half of the first six months from the collection of IRC (tax on income of the public) by increasing that deduction to 25 % in the case of additional investment. The investment incentive is strengthened by support in the context of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which aims in 2022 to support future business investments, innovative, industrial, green and digital, including, for example, EUR 182 million to support the decarbonisation of industry, EUR 174 million for the digital transition of companies and EUR 112 million in the context of the mobilising agendas. Finally, up to EUR 1300 million is planned for the Capitalisation and Resilience Fund, with a view to strengthening corporate capital, and supporting its liquidity by extending and facilitating the conditions for access to the Treasury Fund for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the extension of the performance plans for the payment of tax and contribution debts and with the total and final elimination of the special payment on account. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another essential component for economic recovery is the increase in family income, either through the increase in wages or through the increase in social pensions and benefits, either by the general reduction in IRS tax (tax on income of natural persons) or by the strengthening of access to public services. We assume a clear objective: to accelerate the convergence of the weight of remuneration in GDP (gross domestic product) with the European average, which we resumed in 2017, after a dramatic and consecutive divergence, year after year, between 2009 and 2016. This is a compromise we are looking for in the General Salaries Agreement, under discussion in social consultation. It is with this objective of general valuation of wages that the national minimum wage will rise to €705 in the next year, an increase of €40, the largest annual increase of always,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... continuing the goal of the 750 €, in 2023, and of the 850 €, two years later. Also in the management of public service, we are fulfilling the commitments made. For the fifth consecutive year the careers will remain frozen, continuing progress and promotions in accordance with the law, and, as from the beginning of the Legislature, we ensure the annual update of wages due to the inflation verified in the previous year, in addition to the valuation of the basic salary of the career of senior technician. Pensions will also benefit from the annual update provided for by law, depending on GDP growth and estimated inflation, which adds the commitment made by a new extraordinary increase, already in January, this year extended to all pensions up to €1097 per month. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is about 2 million and 300,000 people who in 2022 will receive this extraordinary increase. On the other hand, by continuing the reform initiated in 2018, we continued to degrade and increase the progressiveity of IRS taxation. One and a half million family aggregates will benefit directly from the unfoldment of the 3. it's 6. the steps, thus saving families, as a whole of these reforms, EUR 500 million annually. This proposal for Budget, a friend of investment and which promotes increased family income, thus makes a decisive contribution to pursuing robust economic growth, reducing unemployment, allowing us, at the end of 2022, to have fully recovered from the greatest economic crisis in our history and to resume convergence with the European Union, increasing 5, 5 % by 2022, a percentage point above forecast for the European Union and the euro area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second priority of this Budget is to continue the strengthening of public services, with the necessary emphasis on the National Health Service ( SNS ) and the public school, to which we dedicate, in addition, €900 million for, throughout the current and next academic year, developing a recovery plan for learning that responds to the needs of children and young people affected by successive educational interruptions during the fight against VOCID. With the reinforcement planned for the SNS this year, we ensure in this Parliament that the SNS has more than EUR 3300 million of initial appropriations, almost twice as much as possible to strengthen in the whole of the previous legislation. This increase means not only more investment in hospitals, in the extension of primary health care networks or in continuous care, it allows the final elimination of moderate rates, except in access to emergencies; it allows the start of the full dedication of the SNS professionals, with increased pay and the provision of care; it allows the extension of the autonomy of staff hiring by services, ensuring the completion of staff maps; it allows the continued increase of the number of SNS professionals, which since 2015 has already increased by about 30,000 people; it allows the creation of the career of health assistant technicians; it allows the opening of the contests for nursing careers, superior health technicians and pharmacists, in addition to the biannual medical contests, and allows, moreover, to restore the lost points by nurses during their repositioning in the new career. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, with this proposal, the SNS, the public school, the security forces and the armed forces are financially strengthened. [[Earrings from CDS-PP and CH Members.]] The third priority of this proposal is to have a proper budget. Reducing the deficit and debt is not a constraint, they are an objective that we combine and link with the increase in investment, with the increase in wages, with the increase in pensions and with the increase in social benefits and the improvement in public services. It was not the right accounts that prevented us from breaking with austerity in 2015, nor to respond, in force and solidarity, to the crisis caused by the COVID. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are the right accounts that guarantee Portugal's international credibility, enabling us to have saved EUR 3000 million of debt interest compared to 2015 and to achieve record values in the investment contracted in 2018, 2019 and again in 2021 by AICEP ( Agency for Foreign Investment and Trade in Portugal ). It is the true accounts that allowed us to return trust to pensioners that their pensions do not suffer cuts and restore confidence to public servants that their careers have become sustainable and their purchasing power is assured annually. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are the right accounts that provide security and predictability for companies to continue to invest and create more and better jobs. They are the right accounts that allow us to continue to take steps within the framework of strengthening the social state. Don't ask us, never again, to step back! It was even the budget surplus of 2019 and the increase in 22 years compared to 2015 of the guarantee of sustainability of social security that allowed Portugal to respond in response to the crisis of the COVID-19, not only with an extraordinary strengthening of the National Health Service, but also in support of businesses, jobs and incomes. We have even had certain accounts that allowed us, this time, to respond to this crisis with solidarity and not with austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The answer to the first question is yes. Supporting economic recovery and strengthening public services, with certain accounts, are the priorities for responding to today's needs, the country and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So let us look at the second question: is this proposal for the State Budget consistent with the strategic vision we have for Portugal? The first strategic challenge we have to face is that of demography. This budget proposal therefore gives particular priority to families with children. First, over the next three years, we will guarantee free daycare for all children, starting in September with those who enter the first year. Second, there will be the creation of the child guarantee of 600 € for all children up to 17 years of age, due to tax deduction, family allowance or payment for families exempt from IRS, raising this value of the child guarantee to 1200 € annually, to seek to rescue the more than 120,000 children at risk of extreme poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, the tax deduction for each child, from the second child and up to 6 years of age, will be increased to €900. The second major strategic challenge of Portugal is to affirm innovation and skills as drivers of development, from then on with the improvement of the tax framework for start-ups and with the improvement of the patent box regime, which will become one of the most competitive in Europe, and then with the strengthening of investment in culture, education and science. It is necessary to highlight, because it is historic, the creation of the Statute of the Professional of Culture, which guarantees the appropriate and specific social protection for these professionals, which has never existed before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, we have a very robust package dedicated to young people in order to ensure that our most qualified generation is valued forever. First, in the pursuit of its qualifications, the amount of Masters' frequency grants will be increased to threefold. Second, in the exceptional appreciation of the positions of entry into the career of senior technicians, especially by valuing the remuneration of doctors and agitating the direct recruitment of young graduates to the Public Administration, thus pressuring the improvement of the wages and careers of young people also in the private sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third, the available income of young people will be increased in the first five years of working life, with the young IRS and with the Return Programme, which will allow the exemption in IRS between 50 and 10 % of the collectable income. Fourthly, there will be the two major factors that limit the empowerment of young people, on the one hand, with an unprecedented programme of public offer of affordable housing and, on the other, by combating professional uncertainty, which, at the same time, goes through the reform of regulated professions, to ensure freedom of access to profession, and the consecration, in the Dignified Work Agenda, of measures to reconcile personal, family and professional life, of regulation of telework... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and combating all forms of work precariousness, particularly in digital platforms, in temporary work enterprises and in the use of outsourcing. Another major strategic challenge is the fight against inequalities, which also has a clear expression in this government budget proposal. First of all, for the greater fiscal justice than the decoupling of the 3. the e of the 6. the steps of the IRS ensure to the middle classes; secondly, due to the greater progressiveity that the growth of the minimum of existence and the greater englomeration guarantee, exempting from IRS more than 170,000 people and then normally taxing the speculative gains of those who are on the highest income scale; thirdly, by the creation, with the child guarantee, of the most powerful tool to combat child poverty in the European Union, 1200 € annually, when the current highest value is that of the Netherlands, with 1037 € annually. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the greatest strategic challenge we face — and that we face with all humanity — is that of combating climate change, to which this proposal for the State Budget responds consistently. First, 54 % of the structural investment provided for in this Budget is intended for sustainable mobility, rail and urban public transport and also for the efficiency of water resources management; second, this Budget reinforces the funds for tariff reduction and for the densification of supply of public transport outside the metropolitan areas; third, the elimination of harmful tax benefits to the environment, the rate of plastic packaging and non-reusable aluminium and the rate of carbon to air and cruises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, the answer to the second question can only be positive. This proposal for a State Budget is consistent with the four strategic objectives we have undertaken in our Government Programme: the demographic challenge, the qualifications and innovation as drivers of development, the fight against inequalities and climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent months, as is public, the Government has held a negotiating dialogue with non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, with the Ecological Party « The Greens », with the People-Animal-Nature Party, with the Portuguese Communist Party and with the Block of Left. These negotiations have already been expressed in the original version of the proposal for a State Budget Act and in a number of commitments already made publicly as regards the amendments to be made at the stage of the speciality. Several of the measures I have tabled here, such as the extraordinary increase in pensions, the increase in minimum existence or the strengthening of public transport funds throughout the country, are examples of this fruitful dialogue. But I can mention other examples, such as the anticipation of reform for those with more than 80 % disability, the creation of a Portuguese gestal language interpreter scholarship, to ensure everyone's accessibility to higher education, health or justice, the adaptation of rooms to the hearing of children in the courts or the recovery of the career of guardians. These negotiations extended, as is known, in addition to the State budget and included changes to the labour code, in particular to combat precariousness, within the framework of the dignified work agenda; to the development of the Health Bases Act, through the Statute of the National Health Service ; to the Statute of the Professionals of Culture and even the Criminal Code, extending the criminalization of ill-treatment to other animals besides pets. In all cases — I repeat, in all cases — the government has committed itself and has made a serious effort to approach the different partners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I have always said, we will do everything we can to ensure the continuity of the new political situation that we started in 2016, to provide the Country with a good budget for 2022 and to ensure, at this crucial moment of recovery, the stability of policies that allowed us to turn the page of austerity in 2015 and respond with solidarity to the pandemic in 2020 and 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will do everything we can to get an agreement, but we cannot do it at any price. Ending the sustainability factor for all early reforms would mean destroying the guarantee of a public social security system that respects current pensioners and guarantees the future of today's workers and new generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] An increase by 2022 of 28 %, or even 20 %, in a new version, in the national minimum wage is to put at risk the recovery and subsistence of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that have faced the greatest economic crisis in our history and that still face a multi-uncertainty framework, from the supply of components at the cost of fuels. No, we cannot question these companies and their jobs! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are asked for a magic pass, but there is no magic pass to enable us to overcome the sense of responsibility, balance and the defence of national interest. We do not make blackmails, ultimatums or close doors to dialogue and this debate, in general, is a good time to pursue it. If you and Mrs. Members will allow it, the stage of the speciality is until the appropriate time for the discussion in detail of proposals and drafting. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for extracurricular matters such as labour legislation or the status of the National Health Service, the public debate period, which was opened last week, provides a wide opportunity to seek solutions until its final vote, in this Assembly of the Republic, or to its final approval by the Government. We will consolidate the many progress we have already made. Let us respect the Portuguese who do not want a crisis. We understand the historic moment the country lives. There is political will, creativity and spirit of commitment and nothing justifies ending the walk that we started in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is still a road to walk and we must continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u8	by the Government, Mr. President and Mr. Members, « while there are winds and seas we will not stop». [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u9	Mr Prime Minister, you now have questions put by all parliamentary groups, which you must answer one by one. Then you have more than 20 questions — 21 more exactly — that you can answer how to understand. The first question lies with Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to whom I give the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u10	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we are clearly at a stage of profound political instability. There is a deep political instability because the State budget is probably not going to happen, but I would say that, even if the Budget is going through generally, it is in the view that the majority of parliament that has existed and that has supported it is completely defeated. Mr. Prime Minister, in fact, referred to him now in his speech. To try to pass the Budget you will have to go fishing on the line, and fishing on the line changing the bait on the hook according to the fish you want to fish, which, of course, does not give stability to the country. [[PSD applause.]] And if the management, we told us last year, was lame, today the management has no legs to walk. She's sitting in a wheelchair waiting for someone to push her and nobody wants to push her.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u12	Why does this happen? It happens because Mr. Prime Minister decided, back there, in 2015, to stand on the left and place himself totally in the hands of the PCP and the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u13	Well, if there's any difference that I notice from Mr. Prime Minister about someone is precisely about Dr. Mário Soares. Dr. Mário Soares has established a red line that has never passed. Dr. Mário Soares realized that he could never stay in the hands of the PCP, in this case, the PCP and the Left Block! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] The Secretary-General of PS António Costa reversed the whole logic of the Secretary-General of PS Mário Soares, and even worsened when he said he would not need the PSD votes for the Budget, because, if they existed, his government would resign immediately. [[PSD applause.]] What was the result of this? The result of this was six — or more, let's see, this seems not to be — Budgets approved on the left. Result: Portugal in the tail of Europe! You're going to see Portuguese percapita GDP for Europe and we're down. We have been overcome by countries such as Estonia and Lithuania, countries of the former Soviet Union, poor countries, which have been with us in the European Union for a short time and have already surpassed us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u14	We will see the average wage in the European Union, according to the indicators of purchasing power parity ( PPC ) calculated by Eurostat, Prime Minister, and our average salary in Portugal is the penultimate. They've all surpassed us! Only Bulgaria is right now behind us. [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] This is the reality! It is the result of this policy, since 2015! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] And Mr. Prime Minister can't say he lived in a difficult time. He lived in a favorable set time. It pointed out that, only in the interest of public debt, it saved EUR 3000 million per year. True, but not by virtue of the government, it is by the policy of the European Central Bank ( ECB ). It was 3,000 million every year. We are going to the dividends of Banco de Portugal and to Banco de Portugal's IRC, which was almost zero, and also, because of this monetary policy, numbers are in the EUR 700 / 800 million. It gives almost EUR 4 billion, only in these two headings. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u15	And then what else did you do? You've raised taxes! And then, with all this money, you did what? With this money all called the PCP and the Left Block, distributed over these six years what they wanted to approve the Budget, and now we are increasingly in the tail of Europe! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u16	Who did you distribute to?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u17	This is really the situation! Primary current expenditure—i.e. without interest on public debt—in the last three years has increased EUR 11 billion. People will have difficulty understanding EUR 11 billion, but if I give another number, everyone understands. in this same period of time, the national product rose by EUR 15 billion, i.e. for a rise of EUR 15 billion, the current state expenditure increases by EUR 11 billion! This is how the PS governs the country, as an omnipresent state in which everything you earn goes to the state, and only to the state, and society is trapped and cannot evolve. [[PSD applause.]] This State budget for 2022, like any State budget, has to give two answers: responses to structural problems and responses to conjunctural problems. In response to the structural problems, Mr Prime Minister, it is what we have seen once again: it does not produce wealth, or, better, it produces very little wealth and distributes everything that produces, I repeat, everything that produces, that is, in terms of future: nothing! In conjuncural terms, what is that? Problems that arise in 2022 that will not be put in 2023 or 2024 or 2025 and for which there has to be an answer. Problems linked, for example, to restoration, which has been closed almost two years, linked to tourism, which has been closed almost two years. Problems linked to the price of fuels, which went up in an absolutely brutal way, which is conditioning the national economy and on which it was required that, in this State budget, Mr. Prime Minister here would propose what he said, in 2016, that he would do: "When the price of cruelty rises, I lower what goes up! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] And so, obviously, I could give a conjuncural answer. I could raise the tax again when this wave passed. This is what the State budget does not answer to the conjunctural questions. It does not respond to structural or cyclical issues. And there is something else that comes very clearly from your speech there in the rostrum. He gave more to the PCP and the Left Block. Only this time has not arrived, because Mr. Prime Minister has placed such order in their hands that now they are the ones who are in charge. And, therefore, as they are now the leaders, the government is in this state that we see! [[PSD applause.]] The government and the PS are paying the bill that they have exceeded the red line that Dr. Mário Soares never allowed it to pass. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, I would like to ask a specific question. Now we have a PRR(Retrieve and Resilience Plan) to run, which has a very limited time and the country cannot waste time on losing a slice or some part of that PRR. We have our economy to continue to develop and it cannot be suspended by a political crisis. We have inflation to rise in Europe and the United States — Germany already goes up to 4 % — which announces serious economic problems for Europe and Portugal, which cannot be suspended in a political crisis. We have the parliamentary coalition that supported him who failed, finished, is in such a wheelchair, and we have the President of the Republic saying the obvious, that, without Budget, we have to go to elections and to elections as soon as possible. The question I am asking you is this, Prime Minister : in view of this scenario, Mr Prime Minister said that he did not resign. My question is: how do you want to rule with this scenario and keep the logic of not resigning? My answer is this: you are so attached to the place that you can't even see what all Portugal is already looking at. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u18	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much, Mr Rui Rio. With all my frankness, I was the last person I ever thought I'd come here to talk about political instability. [[P.S.'s applause and laughter.]] But what stability does you have to offer? Oh, my God! I am very proud that in 2015, I had broken with a myth of Portuguese politics that was the myth of the arc of government. [[PSD protests.]] A myth that established a kind of Berlin Wall, where the PSD, PSD, CDS and the other side were all excluded from participation in executive responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am very proud to have knocked down that wall and even more proud to have done with the support of the then-living Dr. Mário Soares. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand, and I assume that you also understand, that it is fundamental to the liveliness of democracy that there are clear alternatives, that the people can always have alternative ways they can choose. When he wants to be ruled on the left he has who governs on the left, when he wants to be ruled on the right he has who governs on the right. That is one of the great riches of our democracy that we must be able to preserve. That is why I, as I believe that I have always listened to you, have rejected the central bloc solution, because central bloc solutions impoverish democracy, create confusion between those who can lead governance to the left and those who can lead governance to the right. It is the maintenance of this political clarity that is absolutely essential for the country to have a living and dynamic democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This political change, Mr. Member, contrary to what he says, allowed Portugal to interrupt 16 years of divergence or stagnation to begin to converge with the European Union, in 2017, 2018, 2019, and again this year will converge with the European Union, growing above the European Union average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all have reason to be concerned about the expenditure, but you must remind me what was the proposal that the PSD has already put forward so far to reduce the expenditure, and not the proposals it has put forward to add itself to other parties, to create negative majority, which form and increase public expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, we all remember your speech last year. It was very similar to this year. He said we would not arrive at the end of the year without a corrective budget and here at the end of the year we are discussing the Budget for the next year and without any corrective budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And then, Mr President, in spite of everything, a bit of consistency, because, when you speak in revenue, you say that we should increase the VAT (tax on value added) of the restoration to create a strike for a moment of need, as soon as you say that it is necessary to lower the VAT from the restoration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] Mr President, we shall be very clear: in constitutional terms, the Assembly of the Republic is sovereign to approve or not the bill that the Government has the exclusive right to present to the Assembly of the Republic for the Budget. Mr President of the Republic has full competence and legitimacy to take decisions on the dissolution or not dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic by assessing the political framework. But the government also has a duty to interpret what its duty is, before our country and before the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And on that, I have no doubt that the duty of the government, my duty, is not to turn my back at the time of difficulty, is to face the difficulties and, therefore, I do not give up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u20	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, this is in fact one of the heights of the parliamentary debate. It is the moment when the State Budget, as a financial instrument, puts each of the Members to the choice of knowing which way they want to go to public policies...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u23	...and, above all, what a strategic vision for the country. And at the Socialist Party's bench, we're not wrong. Mr Rui Rio, we do not one day make a speech in favour of the valuation of wages and the other day we are against the increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u24	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u25	No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we are always in favour of the valuation of wages and the valuation of the minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who arrived at the presentation of the seventh Budget led by you, Mr. Prime Minister, is time to remember the way that the Portuguese asked for in 2015, strengthened in 2019, and today it has taken possession of this government for two years. They asked that we be able to return something very simple, which you have taken away from the Portuguese: dignity and respect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And dignity and respect are given in the return of income, whether in pensions or wages; it is given in the rights, it is given in employment, it is given in the creation of wealth, it is given in the valuing of public services and in the response that they have to give to citizens every day. This path was made to the left and this path had and has results. It has results of economic growth, it has results of job creation, it has results of greater social protection, it has results of a strengthening of the social state, either in the National Health Service, either in the social protection, or in the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u27	And that's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have arrived here, do not understand that this path cannot continue to be done on the left, because it is the conviction of this bench that there is much way to do, on behalf of Portugal and on behalf of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The budget presented here today is, like the other six budgets, the result of a proposal from the Government which already includes proposals from the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, the ENP, the NAP, the non-registered Members. And that's why...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u28	No, you don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u29	You have, Mr. Deputy, because, when you are. Members call for the strengthening of the National Health Service, more than 700 million in this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When you ask for more investment in health there are about 4000 more professionals for the National Health Service, and, unlike those who during the pandemic predicted the collapse of the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u31	... was the investment in this Budget, in the Budget for 2021, which allowed the response of the National Health Service. [[Well remembered! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u32	When the agoirent voices in this Parliament said that Portugal was not going to succeed in vaccination, today we have 88% of the vaccinated population and this is due to the efforts of the National Health Service and the investment made in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have measures on the left, you have measures on the left, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Because when confronted with a pandemic, which nobody imagined, the priority was to respond urgently to the fact that no one was left without their incomes, it was the 100% layoff that guaranteed that 3 million workers did not lose their income.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u34	When it was necessary to respond to the unemployed, it was the left to Parliament, above all, the PS and the CFP, last year with the Budget, which increased the unemployment allowance and the social unemployment allowance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is not expected to be different. It doesn't seem to me that Mr. Prime Minister has changed, it seems to me that it is the same António Costa de 2015,... [[All right!]] [[Protests by the Member of the IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u35	...it doesn't seem to me that the Socialist Party's bench has changed, and the vision we always had for the country was to invest in people's incomes, wages, pensions, was to improve the quality of public services. But in this budget, there is a matter which is towards this bench but which is very expensive to Portuguese people: the fight against child poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today there are thousands of children who are in poverty or extreme poverty. That is why the answer given by this budget does not deserve a vote against it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of this debate. Let us leave the discussion in the media and have the discussion that this budget needs here, in this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u36	To improve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u37	Yes, sir, to improve. That's the political will! The appeal I make here to the left benches, which have allowed a path of growth, development of the country and return of dignity and income to the Portuguese, is that together we can continue this work in the specialty, because outside the Portuguese demand this from all of us. They do not want political instability, they want to pursue the path and, above all, they want to take advantage of the moment of economic recovery that imposes on someone who is responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why this budget serves to relaunch the country. That's why we count on Mr. Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u38	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u39	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, benefiting from the fact that I have not asked any questions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u40	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u41	... I would simply like to thank the support of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group for the action of the Government, untiring since 2016, and to say that it will find, on the part of the Government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the same correspondence in the walk and route that we traced in 2016: continue to develop the country, not resorting to austerity, and always take a firm step, never greater than the leg, so that the path is always ahead and we never have to go back. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u42	Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, when in 2015 we signed a legislative agreement, we had a point of departure that was clear: turn the page of the impoverishment strategy followed by the PSD and the CDS. This path has been made, especially in terms of the reversal of cuts in labour incomes, and we are proud of it. But it wasn't complete. There is a reason that, despite the way done, wages remain stagnant, or even lower for those who, now, start their professional life, so that so many pensioners with long careers keep low pensions and so that the loss of purchasing power continues to accentuate. This is also the direct inheritance of the troika, the rules of labour law: cheap lay-offs, extra hours at balance price, holiday and rest days transformed into unpaid working days, ground cuts in the calculation of pensions, were the rules of the troika for internal devaluation, i.e. for the structural reduction of labour income, and that remain. In 2019, the Block proposed to the PS a legislative agreement to reverse these rules and continue the path of recovery of the Country, which we started in 2015. The PS refused. We regretted this decision, without ever stopping working for the possible understandings, but, when it arrived at the State budget, the Government decided to replace the negotiation with the ultimate. We're not wrong. The government is well aware that it is a minority and that it is obliged to negotiate. Its increasing intransigence in budgetary negotiations has only one objective, namely to protect the rules of the troika that remain and that condemn our country to low wages and low pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u45	The right has put the rules in the law, the PS wants to make them finished and consolidate them definitely. To that end, I would have to force the left to abandon its programme and its mandate, and that is what you are trying to do, through blackmailing the political crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, no measures to combat precariousness will be effective if it is not accompanied by changes in the structure of labour laws. Therefore, it is not worth waving up for five hundred good intentions in the future. You know, as I know, that wages, careers or rights will not be restored while firing is easy and cheap, while compensating companies to pay in extraordinary hours the work that should be another worker to do, while collective bargaining remains fragile. If the Socialist Party has always been against cutting redundancies for 12 days per year of work, a right-wing measure that went beyond the Memorandum of Troika, why do you not now accept to reverse that court? Mr. Prime Minister, why do you refuse to repay the fair payment of overtime? The Government insists on maintaining the pay cut during the first 120 hours worked, and only 150 hours per year are allowed in large companies. It's not worth calling the approach to refusal. We're talking more than public perceptions, we're trying to return rights that count in people's lives. Why does the government refuse to remove the blind cut from the sustainability factor, which, in fact, has reached only a minority of pensioners? He tells us that it is unsustainable, but that is not what the numbers say: the universe of people who have reformed in advance, under the rules of the troika meanwhile repealed, does not go beyond 62 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u47	As for the new reformers, it is the government itself that recognizes that, last year, only 1 in 10 was struck by the cut-off of the sustainability factor. So why can't we end this cut? I quote him the former Minister Vieira da Silva, who began the progressive elimination of the cut-off of the sustainability factor. Affirms Vieira da Silva, in March 2019 : « It will make no sense to apply the sustainability factor to an age of reform resulting from this factor. That would be an unacceptable double penalty. The current age of the reform itself already incorporates the consequences of the sustainability factor» — end of citation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u49	The government seems to have forgotten the work we did, but we remember. Nor do we forget our commitment to those who have a working life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u51	Mr. Prime Minister, wages and pensions are getting shorter, and that is how despair spreads and this, yes, is the greatest danger we face. The biggest problem with this Budget is that nothing is done to stop this disappointment. The timid measures on income — tax, social, anemic increases in public service — are unable to prevent the loss of purchasing power of those who live in their work. What was announced as a response to the fuel crisis is the finished example of complicating not to solve. Even a citizen to whom the full discount announced by the Government would be granted will have no more than €5 support per month, and only until March, i.e. the value of a journey from Lousã to Coimbra. And, you know, there are those who have been without a train and take this route almost 50 times a month to go and come from work. Many ads, few solutions. Mr. Prime Minister, no recovery program will be effective if you do not recover wages and pensions. No economy is strong without respect for those who work. One year ago, when we voted against the State Budget for 2021, we warned that the future would necessarily pass through work and the National Health Service. The government has ignored us and, in doing so, has not only deteriorated the conditions for a parliamentary understanding, it has also allowed the living conditions of those who work and the conditions of the National Health Service to be degraded.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u53	There are resignations in hospitals every day. There's more than a million users without a family doctor. Health professionals are exhausted and many leave the SNS. It is no use promising investments that, as you know, will not be executed in 2022. It is no longer worth paying for extraordinary hours above 500, which is also illegal. It is not useful to exchange exclusivity for such a little dedication that a SNS head of service continues to be able to accumulate second and third jobs in private health. What is missing is clear incentives to the choice of doctors and other workers by the National Health Service, but that is not accepted by the government. The private health, of course, appreciate the inaction. They assist in the definition of the SNS and prepare invoices of millions of euros in contracts with the State. The increase in the health budget, without rules that allow workers to be fixed in the SNS, will end up as it has largely ended in the private stock exchanges. Don't ask the Block to pretend you don't see it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u55	In the budget and status proposals for the SNS there is something that reminds the sad story of informal caregivers: the status exists, it is always being treated, endowed with money, but it is always delayed and the money to be executed. However, to the frustration of people with lack of response joins frustration because of the inconsistencies of political commitments. Mr Prime Minister, at the moment the Government of Pedro Sánchez proposes the reversal of the laws of the troika in labour law in Spain. This is the time, it is the time for investment and the reconstruction of income and labour rights. If it is not now, with the Parliament in the middle, when is the European context a relief from restrictions, when will it be? If you do not move forward now, Mr. Prime Minister, you lose hope of the country. If you don't have the approved State budget tomorrow, it's because you don't want to. One by one, the Prime Minister rejected, without explaining to the country why, all nine measures presented by the Left Block. For my part, I do not believe that I made this refusal because I sincerely believe that the Bloc would abdicate its own objectives or respect its political mandate. You know we wouldn't, like we didn't do a year ago. The government has therefore made its choice. But going to elections, Prime Minister, is the wrong choice. For our part, we honour our mandate and assume our responsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u56	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u57	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on the State budget, I must say that it has a historic increase in pensions ; it is a budget that enables the greatest ever increase in the national minimum wage ; it has a general increase in all public administration salaries ; it keeps careers for the fifth consecutive year unfreeze ; and, within the framework of the National Health Service, not only the dowry with more than 700 million euros, to add to all the efforts we have already made, as structurally solves a set of problems of the SNS, of course a fundamental problem that has to do with its management and autonomy of the institutions of the National Health Service, within the limits of their respective staff frameworks. This is what the State Budget has. However, I have noted that the honourable Member has said nothing about the State budget. The honourable Member has talked about a number of important issues, which have been the subject of our dialogue, but which are not included in the proposed State budget law. They consist of the status of the National Health Service or of changes to labour law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amendments to the labour law must be voted on here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u58	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u59	The question I ask you is this: if you are against our proposals on labour legislation, why is it not reserved to vote against when the proposal on labour legislation comes to the House of the Republic? Why do you want to vote against the State budget, which has nothing to do with labour law? [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, during the debate we have had — which has taken place in a good climate, where there have never been blackmails or finals, where the Government has never said it wanted to go to elections — we have tried to meet one by one of the concerns of the Left Block. With regard to extraordinary hours, withdrawals, expirations, we have always taken steps towards the Left Block. The Left Block says: "Well, but the steps are insufficient. » It will be, but the Left Block is that until now it has not taken a single step towards the government. That's what she's never given so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]] She said that the Government had never explained why she disagreed with the nine questions posed by the Left Block. I would like to ask you to deliver the document which Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has published, replying extensively to each of your statements and to each of the nine issues of the Left Block, explaining where there had been progress, which the Left Block pretended to ignore, and on the other hand also answering why we did not accept some of the proposals of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mrs Deputy, as my comrade José António Vieira da Silva said, «we must go and sell the sustainability factor, especially when he introduces a double penalty. This is what we started by doing with the very long careers, what we did about the fast wear professions like for example the pierers, and we have already taken on the commitment in this framework and in the negotiation with you to do with people with more than 80 % of disability. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what the honourable Member and the Left Bloc have simply proposed to repeal, in particular, the application of the principle of sustainability in Article 35 ( c ). , « old-age pensions for beneficiaries moving to the pensioner's situation at the normal age or personal age of access to the pension, or at a higher age. This is precisely the situation my comrade Vieira da Silva referred to. As you saw, we acted accordingly and ensured the elimination of the sustainability factor in this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, of course, it is not for me to condition the sense of vote of the Left Block. It's free. They already left us last year, when we had to face the pandemic, and I admit that they now do not want to return to the common battle we had started in 2016. However, Mrs Deputies, with all honesty, do not vote against the State budget, just because it is against a proposal for a labour law which is currently in public debate and which is still to come to the Assembly of the Republic and then you may have the opportunity to vote in favour, because you will certainly find that the bulk of the ambitions of the Left Block correspond. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u60	It is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group, and to request clarifications, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister : The point we want to give this debate is to reaffirm the solutions we have to the country's problems and to confront the Government with the answers it needs. It is necessary to take measures and commitments to address national problems as a whole, a comprehensive response in which the Budget should be inserted, but which goes beyond it. The general increase in wages is a national emergency and requires an increase in national minimum wage and salaries in the Public Administration, with recovery of purchasing power lost and repeal of serious labour law standards. Why does the government insist on leaving more than two million workers unprotected in their rights, leaving in the hands of the capital the cut in the expiry of collective bargaining? Is it possible to witness the degradation of the SNS capacity, seeing the professionals disappear, accepting the extraction of private health groups of the SNS resources and professionals, rather than investing seriously in their fixation? It is the right to consult, examine, surgery, the family doctor concerned, such as the guarantee of the right to housing, which needs to be ensured. What can explain to thousands of people who cannot have access to housing or live in fear of being without it? The extraordinary increase in pensions and reforms, covering all pensioners, the end of penalties for long-term careers, advancement in day care centres, ensuring freeness and creating 100 000 vacancies in the public network are equally evident needs for the demographic deficit to be met. We need to act on energy prices. How do you admit that millions of Portuguese have no chance of heating up their houses in the coming winter?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u63	The defence of national production and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises calls for the recovery of public control of strategic sectors, the setting and control of energy and fuel prices and the recovery of CTTs ( Correios de Portugal ) as essential elements for economic dynamisation and growth. All of this was issues that we have been discussing with the government over the past few months so that there could be a decision on them. The point we reached today is known. Refusing to consider the overall response we proposed, the Government considered only some of the CFP proposals to be isolated. The example of the national minimum wage confirms that it was not due to lack of persistence or openness of the CFP to find solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u65	Since 2020, the CFP has presented its proposal to increase the national minimum wage to €850. Since March of this year, the government has set the target of €705, in 2022, and €750, in 2023. Meanwhile, in Spain, the minimum wage is about 1000 €. In Germany, an increase of €400 was now announced for 2022, fixing the minimum wage for more than € 2000. Portugal is risking even more behind a question of undeniable economic and social importance. To the hundreds of thousands of workers with a salary of €705, what is left to them, if they want to have the luxury of dreaming about the right to housing? Or how can young couples freely decide to have children with this salary and their precarious bond? There is no future for a country based on low wages. We proposed to the Government the fixing of the national minimum wage in 800 €, in 2022, and 850 €, in 2023. We even proposed that if it started the year of 2022 with 755 €. The Government has maintained the same proposal as it has since March, not coming out of its original position on this matter. We know that this affects the profits of the economic groups. For micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which live from the purchasing power of Portuguese, this is, contrary to what you have stated, a measure that favours the dynamization of their activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u67	When it was necessary for the Government to make a decision in favour of workers from micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the internal market, the Government preferred to refuse this option. The country needs solutions and the PCP fights for them. But we agree, Mr Prime Minister, that it is not with the options that the government has made and that we must be able to get the country out of the difficult situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u69	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the dialogue we have held this year, as in previous years, has always allowed for progress. Not always reaching where we both want, we've always been able to move forward, and this year we've made a lot of progress. As regards pensions, we had planned an extraordinary increase in August. In dialogue with the CFP, we accepted that this extraordinary increase was in January, and rather than only for pensions of up to 1, 5 IAS ( indexing social support ), we went up to pensions of up to 2, 5 IAS. That is, there will be an extraordinary increase for pensions up to € 1, 097. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u70	It's 2 million and 300,000 people!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u71	This dialogue with the CFP made it possible to ensure this extraordinary increase for 2 million and 300 thousand people. In dialogue with the CFP, we agreed to break down the steps of the IRS, of which 1, 5 million family aggregates will benefit. Thanks to the dialogue with the CFP, there are more than 170,000 families who will be exempt from IRS because we have accepted your proposal to increase the minimum of existence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By accepting the proposal from the CFP, we will begin, in September next year and throughout the next three years, the generalization of the free of charge for all children, beginning in the first year, in the next year, in the first and second years, in the next year, and in the first, second and third years, finally in the third year of convergence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, these are effective gains, they are effective progress, which resulted from the joint work we have been developing since July to now. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u72	No one understands, in the country! The people to whom we respond cannot understand how we can vote against, how they can improb a budget that starts the free of charge of daycare, which has this extraordinary increase in pensions, already in January, which has this progress in the tax system, which allows a general increase in public administration and continues to progress in the careers of the Public Administration. I don't think anyone out there will understand your position! On the minimum wage, in particular, we have made a very important commitment, which is once and for all to bring together the weight of remuneration in GDP, which has been in continuous divergence with the European Union since 2008. We started to reverse this situation together in 2016, but we have to quickly converge with the European average. Of course, we are all talking about salaries: average wages, which since 2015 have already increased by 10 %, and also minimum wages, whose recovery over these years has been very steep. Mr President, of course, the minimum wage will always be lower than any one of us wanted. So we need to have a relative measure to know if the cup is filling or emptying. With regard to the increase of € 135 that they propose to reach the 800 €, to achieve it, we had to make, in a single year, an increase identical to what we did over the four years of the previous legislation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]] I ask you sincerely, Mr President, if you are sure that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which come out of the deepest economic crisis and are in immense difficulty to resist, may suffer a wage shock this year. I'm not the one who says... [[Protests of PCP Members.]] I have never said — nor have I ever underestimated — that the increase in income does not contribute to economic growth. On the contrary, I said today, here, that our recovery strategy is based on increasing investment and increasing income. However, it is necessary to know whether this income is sustainable. We know that, for the state and for local authorities, it is difficult to do so. It is EUR 550 million more in the public administration's salary mass. I know that companies do not have the dimension that the public administration as a whole has,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u73	Yeah, no! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u74	...but I think it's very risky to take such a step. When we're talking about €40, Mr. Deputies, with all honesty, we're not talking about anything. This is the greatest wage increase ever, I repeat, always, of the national minimum wage, since it was created. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u75	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group and Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u76	Mr President, Prime Minister, these last two questions and answers seem to make it very clear that this debate marks the end of a cycle and the end of a model which you created for, without winning the elections, reaching power and governing the country. [[PS protests.]] At the time, you said you had knocked down a wall. I remember telling him that he thought you had fallen to the other side of the wall. The truth is that now it seems very obvious that you are between the sword and the wall and that you have no way of leaving the situation in which you have been placed. Apparently, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the management killed the management. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] That's what happened, that's what we're talking about and the problem isn't ours, Prime Minister. You've just shown that it's not ours. This is, from our point of view, a bad budget, repeats previous budgets and is — from this perspective to my agreement — even more socialist than the previous ones. It is a Budget that corresponds to the inheritance of six years of management, and the inheritance is indeed a significant increase in public debt back to 2015. We currently have more debt, more public debt than we had in 2015. It is a budget that presents Portugal as having one of the worst average wages of the European Union, which has been recovering, and ours is far, far away. Why? Because, Mr. Prime Minister, contrary to what your partners think, who create wages, good wages, is not the state, nor are they decrees, are the companies, as is evident.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u78	This is a budget made against companies! It is a budget in a country that has a significant fall in GDP, contrary to what it says, and that has, at the end of six years of socialist governance, levels of impoverishment that are not acceptable to a country of the European Union. Almost 2 million Portuguese are at risk of poverty. It is a Budget that represents the inheritance of management. It is a budget that does not solve, as has been said, and well, issues of the context itself. With regard to fuels, we have put forward the proposal to remove excess taxes and overtaxes. You have dropped this proposal and believe that the issue of fuel is solved by a promotion of exchange, so to speak. It is a budget that continues to place us among the worst countries, behind most of the countries of the former Eastern bloc, in post-pandamy recovery. But this Budget is the result of your options and your choices, Prime Minister. You, in some way, to use one more expression — others have already been used — closed inside some kind of haunted house. He locked himself in there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u79	Uh! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u80	It's scary for the country, it's, sir. You're absolutely right. It's very scary for the country. You refused — and refused again today! — any other option other than management. You, during your term of office, have had more than once signs, in particular, of the greater party of opposition, not so much of my party, in order to have dialogue, and you have always refused, has always closed down in this model.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u81	Dialogue and vows!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u82	You ruled out any possibility of dialogue or any other solution and said whenever you had stable and reliable partners. That is what you have been saying to the country so far: that you had stable and reliable partners and that you had a stable and coherent solution. It was even lasting, but it also said it was stable and consistent! Having arrived at this moment, Prime Minister, we are watching the continuation of what I think is shocking, so to speak, any normal citizen, any Portuguese of good sense. We have seen in the last three weeks what we have seen, in previous years, in a superlative degree: a budget public barge, a measure-measured regatta, which comes to this moment and has no resolution. Mr. Prime Minister, to get out of that hole where you got into it, I think, in the last three weeks, you bought a ticket for a phantom train. I repeat: you bought a ticket for a phantom train! You went three weeks to promise everything to the most orthodox communist party in Europe, not to say the only one.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u83	Orthodox are Catholics!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u84	You promised them everything! He promised to reverse all labour legislation, the same labour legislation that allowed us to leave by 17% by 2015, reducing it to 6%. You've been promising collective life contracts forever. You continue to promise that, the end of reasonableness in the contracts. He has promised, as he has now admitted, realities that would put a large part of our companies in check. He's been promising everything to the PCP and... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ...comes to this moment and what do you have? Oh, my God! What do you have, after you promise it all? Oh, my God! Comes to this moment and what happened? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u85	That's not a phantom train!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u86	They hit him with the door on his face. Repeat, they hit him with the door on his face! You're here right now and they hit him with the door on his face. I would like to leave you a final question, Prime Minister, and ask you to explain these facts. [[PCP protests.]] It's even nice, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. I really like it, honestly. « While there is a road to walk», Mr. Prime Minister, it is beautiful. However, I think your problem is that you don't have a foot in a gallery: you have both at the bottom of the sea, continuing in the same author. You have no solution. I ask you, until the day that management kills management, what you have to say to the country for the future. We will admit that tomorrow the budget proposal falls and, as Mr President of the Republic has already said, we are going to elections. Let us imagine — I hope not! — that you arrive here with a left-wing majority. What are you going to say? Oh, my God! What will you join them again? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Can you say that? Can you say that to the country today? Are you able to say that you have a left-wing solution for the country? Don't! Your model is over, you have no solution and that is your main problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u87	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u88	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, listening to you and, recently, Mr Rui Rio, I see who, in fact, are the only people who can be content with the pre-voting vote against this Budget which the CFP and the Left Block have made. Only you can be happy with such a pre-announcement! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr President, in democracy, there are always solutions. I repeat, in democracy, there are always solutions. from our side, until the last minute, we will do everything within our power to enable this State budget, of course, because we understand that it is a good budget and that corresponds to the needs of the country. As I have had the opportunity to say, we will do everything to have a good State budget, but we will not have a State budget at any price, because the country does not bear or bear any price for the approval of the State budget. So we will do everything we can to negotiate so that it can be approved and we will see what happens. After the Assembly of the Republic — which is sovereign to approve or not approve the Budget — we will see what Mr President of the Republic, who is also sovereign, decides to do or does not decide to do. For our part, we already announced what we had announced. We will not see the face of the country and not see the face of our responsibilities. We are here to fulfill our responsibilities, we are here to carry out our duties and we are here to rule the country. That is what we are doing here, and that is what we are going to do, whatever the circumstances in which we are placed. We will rule in a way, under conditions, and rule from others, under bad conditions. We already had to face the threats of excessive deficit procedure, we had to face the Devil's auguries, we had to face the inheritance, we had the threats of sanctions and we had to face a pandemic. Look, who knows if we don't have to face, too, a country to be managed in twelfths! Is that what you're talking about? I don't know. I don't want it. What I wish is for this debate to run well, in a constructive way and that, with responsibility, there is a way to provide the Country of Budget which it needs for 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u89	You have the floor, to request clarification from the Prime Minister for the NAP, Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, our country is certainly living quite difficult times. The debate around this State budget has to be made seriously, which is not consistent with symbolic insinuations and party interests cannot in any way be in front of the interests of the country. They cannot also be ahead of people's lives, economic development, public services financing and combating the climate crisis, which has not yet disappeared as a background. Adding a budgetary crisis to an unprecedented health crisis is more than irresponsible, it is more than an arm of iron between party interests, it is causing real consequences for people's lives and the future of the country. When we were all called in this same House to declare the state of emergency, to tell the country that it had to stay at home, we were all quick to say that we would not miss the country, that we would not cease to give answers — social, economic responses, answers that would guarantee a real and effective socio-economic recovery — that we would leave no one behind. However, not to allow or discuss the State budget in general is to miss the country. At the PAN, we don't expect miracles. We are responsible and we work to ensure that they actually get answers, even if the work is difficult, even if they get stuck in intransigence or that they fall short of what we want. Through the capacity to negotiate and also the sense of responsibility, as has already been acknowledged, we have managed to increase the middle class's income through changes to the IRS steps, including the youth IRS step. We have also achieved the Portuguese Gestal interpreters' scholarship, a matter of the most basic social justice and inclusion, to ensure a goal and a path in equality in our country. We have managed to ensure the strengthening of public transport, something absolutely fundamental, along with the National Strategy for Active Mobility 2020 - 2030, to combat not only what is a social need but also climate change and the need for decarbonisation. We have managed to ensure a reinforcement, already with a mirror in what is the general nature of the Budget, in the fight against corruption. We were able to extend the animal protection program throughout the country, because with the NAP the animals are not left behind either, and we obtained more support for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. We have achieved a programme for monitoring and depolating rivers, investment in combating energy poverty and responses to ensure the right to housing for the most vulnerable. In addition to these measures that are part of the need for consensus and dialogue, commitments have also been made towards the aim of today's vital civilizational advances, such as extending the Penal Code to other living beings with sensitivity than just pets. The question is: is this perfect budget? Is this the budget we wanted? No, it's not either. In fact, this budget does not prioritize mental health or bet on preventive health, but, on the other hand, it chooses to spend almost EUR 900 million on the unusual resident regime, that is, for foreigners to come to enjoy their reforms in our country when we have our pensioners going through so many needs. It also opts to miss more than EUR 1000 million for health and does not ensure the fair valuation of health assistants when it opts, on the other hand, to pay public-private partnerships ( PPP ) three times more than they cost, even in this State budget, where more than EUR 1, 6 billion is expected. In fact, this is one of the great elephants in the room that nobody talks about, even though we talk so often at TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport) and at the New Bank. It is also a Budget that chooses not to make structural advances in justice, although we lose every minute 34 000 € for corruption. Alongside these issues, it does not dare to make necessary reforms in education, nor does it value the dedication and life of education professionals, even though we are talking about the present and future of children and young people. It is a Budget which is also in contradiction with the demands of the climate crisis, not only reducing the value attributed as well as continuing to give tax bills and allowing the existence of perverse subsidies. Despite the recent progress in the status of the cultural worker, something that has also been negotiated and discussed with the other political forces, culture in Portugal is still not valued, and there is not even a political will to have a minimum of 1% in the State budget for culture. Mr Prime Minister, avoiding a budget crisis is also in your hands. It is true that if some want to use this debate to build walls, the NAP intends to use this debate to build bridges, to give answers to the country, to the challenges ahead and to a crisis that has not disappeared or will disappear so quickly. But for this to happen, this budget must not be more than the same. It must be a budget for change, structural investment, where it is essential that this investment exists, particularly in the areas of public services and also in changing the paradigm for the socio-economic development of the country. To that end, we need to speak in responsible and sustainable economic development and not in disproportionate growth, which does not respect people or natural resources. That is why we would like to hear from now on answers to some of these structural questions, Mr Prime Minister. With regard to health, whether or not Mr Prime Minister and his Government are available to ensure not only the valorization of health assistant technicians — an absolutely essential element to ensure that there is a robust National Health Service — and to, in the area of prevention, in such a sensitive area as care for premature babies, create, for the first time in our country, a network of breast milk banks, which enables us to save lives for these children? In environmental matters, Mr. Prime Minister, the climate crisis has not only disappeared as we should to present and future generations leaving them a country, a planet, where they can live with quality of life. To this end we must ensure that there is an increase, a duplication — that is what the NAP has claimed — of the planned money for public transport and the National Strategy for Active Mobility 2020 - 2030. Is it available or not to take this step in social justice and also in climate justice? Is it also available to ensure the end of energy poverty and the adaptation of housing so that we do not have people to die cold in Portugal, Prime Minister? This is indeed a priority and there is an increase in substantial investment, but when we speak of a need of 380 million we cannot be content with just million euros that will reach few families. Moreover, Mr Prime Minister, will you be able to guarantee the transformation of agriculture in Portugal, which is essential that it be done? To protect farmers is to ensure that they have in fact incentives to make good practices, such as organic farming, more competitive, is to ensure that the area reserved for good practices and sustainable production methods in our country, while, of course, paying the services of ecosystems. Without this medium- and long-term vision, Mr Prime Minister, we will not only have a budgetary problem, with the inability of the Budget, we will also have a problem with the sustainability and future of our country, Portugal. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u91	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u92	Mr President, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, I would like to begin by welcoming the constructive position that the NAP has maintained throughout these work, which have not been easy, because they have started from an extensive role of 156 proposals, which has required a very stopped work on the part of the Government as a whole, because they were indeed very transversal proposals. I'm going straight to the questions you put. As for health assistant technicians, we have already made a public commitment to negotiate and regulate this career and we will do so. Secondly, we have already made a commitment to the creation of four breast milk banks, as had been established with the NAP. Thirdly, we have also accepted the duplication of funds with regard to promoting sustainable mobility. Fourthly, and with regard to the fight against energy poverty, we have agreed a sum of EUR 40 million to, together with the energy efficiency programme, be able to ensure this fight. Finally, we have the very ambitious objective of, by 2023, we can have 15 % of our agricultural area dedicated to organic agriculture. But, to be more precise and to make everything clear among us, there is the written document that the NAP has sent to us and today the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has also sent a written document. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u93	You have the floor to ask the Prime Minister for clarification by the ENP, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, allow me to make two previous notes before I enter the debate itself. The first is to record the announcement made by the Prime Minister, in the rostrum, concerning the creation of a career as guardians, because it is an old Green dos proposal to whom the Government has always said 'no', including in the context of the negotiations of this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u95	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u96	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u97	The second previous note is to ask if anyone remembers who stated, about a year ago, that it was demagogic to increase the national minimum wage. Now, if it is demagogic to increase the national minimum wage, as Mr Rui Rio said about a year ago, what about those who vote against the increase in the national minimum wage and then complain about low wages in our country? Oh, my God! So there's the question. Mr Prime Minister, at a time when we, on the one hand, are more free from the pressure of the pandemic and, on the other hand, with less conditionalities coming from the European Union, we hoped that the Government would present a 2022 budget that would be sufficiently capable of responding to all the difficulties we are experiencing and that require urgent response. It happens that, as at the time of the delivery of the Budget, the Greens have become public, the State budget for 2022, in our perspective, is far from giving the necessary answers, in view of the size and severity of the problems. At the same time, we had the opportunity to point out that it is absolutely incomprehensible that, with a growth in the economy of 5, 5 %, this growth is not felt in the guarantee of more quality of life for Portuguese, whether at the level of their purchasing power, either at the level of the quality of public services or at the level of better environmental standards. In fact, Prime Minister, if not when the economy grows that proceeds from the recovery of people's purchasing power and seriously invests in public services, or improves environmental standards, then it is never time to improve the living conditions of the Portuguese, to invest in public services or to take care of our natural resources. We also point out that, as the Government is more free from the constraints and limitations of the rules of the European Union, we find no reason why the deficit race continues to be the guiding beacon of this budget, seriously compromising the emerging response to the problems of the country. However, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to bring to the debate a matter which has been dragged over time and which is not only severely penalizing judicial officials, but also contributing to the laziness of our justice. See, the State budget for 2020 determined that both the Statute of the Justice Officers and the integration of the procedural recovery supplement and the creation of a differentiated retirement scheme for judicial officials would be negotiated with the representative structures of their workers so that the process would be completed by the end of July 2020. It happens that July 2020 has already passed, the year of 2020 also goes there for some time and there has been no progress in this matter. Next came the State budget for 2021 and in its Article 39. the, it is mentioned that until the end of March of this year, therefore 2021, is published in the Journal of the Republic the review of the Statute of the Officials of Justice. Once again, March is there, we are at the end of October and the process knows no progress. However, more than one hundred judicial officials have already left for retirement and more than two dozen professionals have fled to other administration services, because without statute there is no career progression, there is no wage valuation and judicial officials will of course continue to seek other services, with serious damage to procedural speed and to the administration of justice itself. In any case, this situation is absolutely incomprehensible, because the Assembly of the Republic approves the laws, the Assembly of the Republic determines the deadlines and the Government does not comply, and the affairs go from year to year, from Budget to Budget and nothing is resolved. The case of judicial officials is only one of many examples that could be mentioned here, such as the creation of the treasury fund for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a fund which was, as you know, a Green proposal negotiated with the Government in the context of the State budget for 2021, which was enshrined in the State budget for 2021, and which, in fact, represented a decisive measure for the construction of the Green budget in the sense of voting in that budget. However, the result was what you saw and that Mr. Prime Minister knows so well. But, returning to judicial officials, Prime Minister, if the question of status can be more delayed because it requires negotiations with workers' representatives, the same cannot be said about the integration of the procedural recovery supplement, which could go forward without any obstacles. Mr Prime Minister, what justifies this impasse in the Statute of the Justice Officers, which goes from year to year, which goes from Budget to Budget, but which knows no progress? [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u98	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u99	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, in the course of our discussions, we have sought progress. I see that you have now noted that there has also been a step forward in the recovery of the career of guardians. On the general issue of income, I would draw attention to the fact that the proposal we have, increasing the national minimum wage, remains above the growth of gross domestic product. It is true that we expect a growth of 5, 5 %, but it is also true that we propose an increase in the national minimum wage that is higher than 5 %, in order to help the wages re-converge with the European Union's average wage on the weight of GDP. I think that must be the objective we should share. As far as the judicial officers are concerned, this is an old story, which comes at least from the time when I was the Minister of Justice in the years 2000.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u100	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u101	Therefore, the reason why this has not yet happened this year should probably be the same because it has not happened in the previous 19 years. However, I believe that we are at this moment very little time to resolve this problem definitively, because as an extraordinary regime is in force, created by Minister Vera Jardim in the ages of 2007 or 2008 in 2021, it will be very difficult to consider it as an extraordinary and temporary subsidy. Finally, with regard to the line of credit, we proposed — in fact, in the written document we sent — the recovery of this instrument from the treasury fund, which I also had occasion to mention in the speech I made here recently, in the presentation of this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u102	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : The various budgets of the Socialist State that were presented in this Chamber are all bad, but this can be the worst of them all, Prime Minister. And it can be the worst of them all, in such a way that even their most faithful partners — except the PAN, who are afraid that this will fall and that they have to go to the elections and to whom Mr. Prime Minister has given two or three things — can now hold their government. Mr Prime Minister, you are the only one responsible for the situation we are living today. He trusted those he should not have trusted, looked at the economic signs and did not perceive the disaster on the way from which he was going. And today, you are here with all these ministers, with the greatest government of the European Union, saying « make sure - if I do not fall » and « we will indeed continue to govern ». Let's get to the facts. Mr Prime Minister came to say: 'We have put everything in social dialogue'. However, two days ago we had some partners in social dialogue leaving a meeting and saying that it was the first time since 1984 that they had to do so and so Mr. Prime Minister apologized to them at night. Mr. Prime Minister wants to convince the Left Block that he will put EUR 900 million in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u104	It is EUR 700 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u105	But we've known you for a long time, Prime Minister. Both EUR 900 million and EUR 700 million, as well as EUR 1 million, and EUR 20 million, because it will not put any of this and it will continue to captivating and captivating, as it has done over the past six years. The Left Block, as well as the PCP, can be deceived one, two, three, four, five, six times, but at the seventh time they will certainly not be mistaken. I have to tell you this, Mr Prime Minister : even if, in despair, the Left Block makes this State budget viable tomorrow, afraid of having to hear the Portuguese, even if that despair falls, Mr Prime Minister, your Government has finished, this majority parliament has ended and has known today its funeral day, which, as we all will, Mr Prime Minister will recognise. Mr. Prime Minister said that we left the crisis without austerity and heard the NAP welcome the socialist effort here. My God, where did we get here? Oh, my God! The NAP to greet the socialist government is something incredible! [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister said we left the crisis without austerity. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish there! Mr. Prime Minister, explain to the Portuguese outside, how we had a record of tax burden last year. Explain how we have the fifth price of the most expensive petrol in Europe and how we pay a price for the electricity of the most expensive in the whole of the European Union! And Mr. Prime Minister comes here, to this House, to say that we have left this crisis without austerity! Open... He speaks of health and he ascribes to the Left Block and the PCP with funds for health, but today, at the time we are discussing the State Budget, doctors are fired at hospitals in Braga, Setúbal and many other hospitals in the country, against their government. If you announce strikes, it is certainly not because you have the best health budget that you have promised the Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, you can fool some people for a while, you can fool some partners for a while, but you can't fool everyone all your life! [[PS protests.]] It's coming to an end and they're already nervous, but it's always coming to an end. [[PS protests.]] Mr. President, I ask you to let me continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, create conditions for you to be able to listen, please. Sir, I ask you to proceed, please. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u107	No, it's coming in January. That's when it's coming! Mr. Prime Minister spoke in education. How can you come to this House to talk about education, when your Budget has an article on education — an article! How do you want to give the Portuguese a sign that you really want to bet on education, when your Budget has zero about education? Oh, my God! Finally, Mr Prime Minister, if this budget were so good, there were not so many people to announce strikes next week and next and you did not have your partners, who desperately want to prevent the right from coming back to power, to "throw your rope" at such a fatal time. And if your Budget was so good in the fight against corruption, you had not come to the head of the CIAP (Central Investigation and Criminal Action Department) last week to say that this Budget is a zero for corruption and ask you for more means, as you promised. Mr. Prime Minister, the responsibility for what will happen tomorrow will be yours or complicity with the Left Block. But there is one thing I want to say to you: what happens tomorrow, your government is over and will not pass for many months until the Portuguese can choose another government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u109	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, about deceptions, I just want to make a slight correction: as you know, several years ago, there are no captives in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, Mr President, I should like to say that even I found it moving to see how you managed to overcome, with joy, the prospect of Dr. Rui Rio and Dr. Telmo Correia with the hypothesis of the State budget being plunged. And your joy demonstrates what a huge mistake this Budget will be. It'll be a huge mistake! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the reason why your joy can beat the PSD and CDS is that, despite everything, they already have the experience of going to elections, winning and being government. Now, your ambition is to do in the Republic what you have managed to do in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. And it's that joy that can't hide, in the longing that has to reach power, whatever it takes. I hope it's not enough! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u110	To request clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : I recognize that it is a bit strange that we will be here in the debate of a State budget, in which we know that there is debate, but we are not sure whether there is a budget and, if any, we do not know which versions of that budget will be. It will certainly not be the one who entered here on 11th, but it will happen what happens—and even in the hypothesis that today seems remote from the State budget to come by tomorrow—the fact is that management has already died. For me, "peace to your soul"!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u112	Well, I thought he had a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u113	I can say that it is a personal defeat of yours, Mr. Prime Minister, given up to pride, which was recently reaffirmed by the option you took in 2015. A symbol of this defeat is also the way it appears to present this State budget as a growth budget, a family budget, a business budget, a SNS budget, when it is absolutely nothing of it. If it were a growth budget, the government would not be glad to present the biggest growth in the last few decades in 2022, without assuming symmetrical responsibility for the greatest fall in GDP, as long as there are records in 2020. Therefore the growth of 2022 will not compensate for what fell in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u114	And the pandemic didn't exist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u115	Portugal is therefore one of the most growing and the most slowly recuperating countries and from here it is also withdrawn that the Government tries to hide an obvious fact and, I think, we should all be aware: that if we look beyond 2022 — and there are those who help us to do this, either in Eurostat or in the International Monetary Fund — we see that Portugal is systematically in the last place of the growth rankings of the years after 2022. So Portugal will not only converge beyond 2022, as it will diverge beyond 2022. And companies, on which the Socialist Party likes, from time to time, to say that they are the source of all growth and job creation, are not well-treated in this Budget either. Unless, of course, Mr. Prime Minister refers only to public enterprises, because there are public companies like TAP that carry EUR 1000 million without a return ticket — there they will fly! — or as the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), which takes EUR 1800 million to clean up its balance sheet, but no one has seen exactly what is the justification or the economic or social return of this investment. But when we look at private companies, what do we see? We see the'surprising' value of EUR 10 million, which is what it will cost to end in definitive terms with the special payment on account and we see a financial instrument that has two fantastic features: it will last for six months, which is to be quick, and it will force companies to abdicate part of their freedom of business decisions. Nor is it a Budget for the families, because if I am told that it is a collapse of two of the steps of the IRS that will brutally relieve the IRS in some Portuguese families, I say that this is quickly eaten by not updating the inflation of the IRS steps and by the increase of almost all indirect taxes. And it's also not a saving budget or a big push with the SNS. That SNS that, three months ago, was exemplary to all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u116	Strange, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u117	... today we've heard everyone say if it's falling apart—and it's! Three months ago, it was exemplary and now they are giving reason to what we have always said in the Liberal Initiative, that is, the pandemic was hiding the real structural problems of the SNS. So spending more 3 or 4 billion euros with the SNS in 2022 than it spent a few years ago only shows that it is not a problem that solves by throwing money up. Therefore, if there is anything I will regret, if there is no State budget approved tomorrow, it is that this legislative session will end and the Liberal Initiative will not be able to present its draft structural reform of the SNS, as I wanted to do. Having said this, Mr Prime Minister, and assuming that we will have Budget tomorrow and that I was serious when I said that you want to approve the Budget, but not at any price, please tell me how much you cost the concessions you have already made between the presentation of the proposed budget law here, in the Assembly of the Republic, on 11 and today. How much do they cost and how much do you think they can still come to cost these 24 hours that gave the most to the extreme-left opposition? And tell me if you're going to accommodate this increase of expenses, letting your big target of right accounts fall, or if you're going to increase any more tax, something that the Portuguese have the right to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u118	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u119	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, in fact, is true: if the majority who formed in November 2015 considers themselves exhausted and who has no further way to walk, that, to me, is a huge personal frustration. I take this because I believe, and I have believed, from the beginning, that this majority had enormous potential, a potential that, far beyond undoing what the PSD and CDS had done, aimed to build a robust future for our country. So if I find that this is not so, it will even be a huge personal frustration—I have no toe to recognise it. As for this Budget, I insist: I hope it will pass, like the other six Budgets, which have contributed to the country's growth. contrary to what you say, all the forecasts continue to bring Portugal into line with the European Union, which has been happening for the first time in this century since 2017, 2018, 2019, 2021, and is already expected to be the same for 2022. And if we look at the 15 old Member States, we are even the second largest growing country in the whole of the European Union. [[IL protests.]] This means that we are on the right track and that we must continue on that path. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr President, because I have to save time for the next three rounds of questions, I just wanted to tell you the following: obviously, no one perceives or believes convincing that the National Health Service, which, when it had to face the biggest health crisis that the country has experienced, when it had to face a pandemic in absolutely dramatic situation, was unanimously recognized as having the ability to respond, be it now, that it has passed the pandemic, going through this chaos, when even the flu has arrived. Sir, do you believe that or are we watching a new episode of children born on the highways until the resignation of Minister Correia de Campos? Oh, my God! I'm so afraid that's how it is. But there is a serious dimension, which is real, and that is why we expect to continue to invest in the National Health Service. You know, honourable Member, the National Health Service is not dealing with pandemics, it is dealing with investment, with motivation of professionals and appreciation of their careers, so that is why we will continue to work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering another phase of requests for clarification. There are 21 more Members registered to request clarification from the Prime Minister, who will respond in groups of seven, as reported by the Bureau. Mr António Maló de Abreu of the PSD, therefore, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, that is exactly what I want to talk to you about health. Or, better, the lack of health we have. But I don't want to talk to you about the national health system, because VV. Ex. they are or are owned by him. They are even entitled as the parents of the National Health Service. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u122	Sometimes, I think that the National Health Service should be removed from parents because of excess abuse,... [[PSD applause.]] ...because VV. Ex.as have contributed to the degradation of health services, with the lack of human and material resources. I'm not the one who says it, it's the health professionals, it's the directors of hospitals, it's the heads of the service, they quit, it's the doctors, it's the nurses, it's the users. Everyone's talking about this, I don't have to say it. Mr. Prime Minister, I am not going to tell you about Coimbra's maternity. Recently, he quoted his comrade Vieira da Silva and I believe that Mr. Prime Minister knows his comrade Antonio Costa well, who announced, in Coimbra, that we would have maternity and that after the elections Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa would tell Coimbra what would be the place where this maternity would be placed. You didn't have the courage to say what the place was, that came after, because the place wasn't the one your comrades wanted. Mr. Prime Minister, I have indeed asked for the word to tell you about the promises that he does not fulfill. Again recently, Mr. Prime Minister apologized to the social partners, and I asked for the floor to ask him if he apologizes to the millions of Portuguese who continue without a family doctor. That is the big question, because compassion lives in acts and 1 million Portuguese is not a number, it is not a gulag, it is concrete people, with concrete pain and suffering, who have been abandoned by themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u123	Don't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u124	I quote your 2015 Government Programme, which said « the goal of ensuring that all Portuguese have a family doctor assigned ». Did you see them? Don't! In 2016, he solemnly promised in the Assembly of the Republic : « 2017 is once and for all the year in which all Portuguese will have a family doctor assigned». V. Exa promised in 2015, in 2016, in 2018, in 2019, in 2020 and now in 2021, with 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor, once again promise, having the subtlety, not to say the dare, not to call it « family doctor », but « family health team ». Mr. Prime Minister, saying is different from thinking and acting is different from saying and thinking. I believe you say what you think, but you don't do what you say. I believe, like us, that no family should be without a doctor, but does not; that no user should be without a family doctor, but does not; and that no Portuguese should be without a right to health, but does not. Mr Prime Minister, life is made of "faces" — or you do or don't! — and you do not. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u125	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u126	Mr President, Prime Minister, increased family income has been a central priority in the government's economic and budgetary policy over the years, I would say, seven State budgets. The increase in the available income of families has been a bet, something that unites PS, Left Block, PCP and ENP and, over these years, we have made a very positive path, with very strong gains for families. And I fear--do it against the right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u127	I'm glad you admit it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u128	... which has always opposed these measures throughout the State budgets. I fear that it will be done in the recovery of wages, in the increase of wages, with the increase of the national minimum wage by around 40 % over the years; or in the recovery of public administration salaries — I recall the integration of 20 000 public administration precariouss, a matter which has united the parliamentary left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also recall the thawing of promotions and progressions, another emblematic measure that united the parliamentary left, and I still remember the continuous increase in the minimum remuneration in the Public Administration, a matter that also united the parliamentary left. We have also done so, through the increase in pensions, not only with the automatic increase, but also through the extraordinary increase in pensions, which has been carried out since 2016 ; the increase in social benefits, not only rests the cuts made by the right, as increasing the family allowance and unemployment allowance; and also through indirect measures, which have contributed to increase the income available to families, such as the free of charge of daycare facilities, the provision of school textbooks, the extension of the social energy tariff, which today covers 800 000 families, and the passage in collective transport. These were emblematic measures that united the parliamentary left over these years and were fundamental to increasing the income available to families. But let us not forget also the path we made through the tax route: the elimination of the overtax of IRS, which was a heavy right heritage; the two steps of IRS that were introduced in 2018 to alleviate the lowest incomes; the consecutive increase in the minimum of existence — there are today many families who have stopped paying IRS because of this measure, which has been central to the viability of the previous State budgets; the replacement of the family quotient by the deductions fixed by children, a measure that has allowed many families to save and deduct much money in the IRS; and also the increase of deductions to collection. Today we can say that after all these measures within IRS, the Portuguese save EUR 1600 million from the IRS tax burden at the end of 2015 when we reach the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this is a path that cannot and should not be interrupted. And this is exactly what brings the State Budget to 2022, a set of advances in those areas that have always been priority for the Left Block, for the PCP, for the ENP, areas for which the government brings substantial advances. We do not understand, the Portuguese do not understand how a Budget that bets on the greatest ever increase of the national minimum wage has the vote against the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP. The Portuguese do not understand how the Budget which, for the first time in recent years, since the beginning of this political cycle, foresees the extraordinary increase in pensions, covering pensions above €658 up to €1097, has a vote against the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP. This is also the Budget which foresees the greatest ever increase in family allowance, a highly effective measure in combating child and youth poverty. But despite this, it has the vote against announced by the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP. Also in relation to IRS, despite the two new steps, despite the IRS Young to be extended, despite the increase in child deductions, this Budget has the announced vote against the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u129	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u130	I will finish, Mr. President. I ask you, Prime Minister, whether or not this budget brings significant progress in the priority areas which have always been part of the central agenda of traditional parliamentary partners, the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u131	Mr José Soeiro of BE now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, one of the strongest instruments of precarious work has to do with the ease of cheap layoffs and blackmail that leads workers with right to accept terminations and then be replaced by precarious workers. Our proposal is simple: to resume the value of redundancies that existed in the Code of Labor of Vieira da Silva, i.e. 30 days for each year of work. It was a law of the Socialist Party. Mr. Prime Minister has not been available until today to cancel this troika cut and return to the Labour Code of the Socialist Party of 2009. The Government has tried to divert the debate into compensation for future contracts, which is another subject, and which is, in fact, another article of the Labour Code. On dismissal compensations did not even agree to discuss. As a sign of good negotiating will, and contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister said, last year the Block opened the door for at least — I repeat at least! — if they recover 20 days, instead of the present 12 days. The 20 days were the compensation that was foreseen in the Memorandum of Troika, while the 12 days that exist today are the result of the extremism of the PSD and the CDS, which were beyond the troika. But even those 20 days of the Memorandum, the Prime Minister agrees to return. When the right, going beyond the troika, approved the 12 days of compensation, said, in this plenary, then Mr Vieira da Silva: « The Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority...» — at that time there was a right majority — «... you know perfectly well that this new reduction was not a requirement of the social partners, as they heard that the study that founded this new reduction has no technical and political soundness or credibility». On behalf of the Socialist Party, Vieira da Silva then told the right-wing Members: « They did not know how to defend the interests of Portugal, which were to no longer introduce this disturbing factor in our labor relations. This is your project,... » — the one on the right! — «... this is your way, and in this way and in this project, my lords, are not accompanied by us». The proposal we put forward is the proposal of the Socialist Party. It is difficult to understand why such a proposal, defended by Vieira da Silva in June 2013 in this Parliament, would now have to be considered by Antonio Costa as so radical and so unacceptable that it would be worth a political crisis for the Prime Minister. It's in your hands—still! — Mr Prime Minister, avoid this crisis. It is enough to abandon the obsession with maintaining these evil rules of the PSD and CDS, rather than wanting to tie them to the stone and force the left to swallow them against the mandate that he has chosen us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u133	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the CFP discussed with the Government inappropriate solutions to hire and fix professionals in the SNS: the appreciation and dignity of careers and salaries, the implementation of exclusive dedication, the autonomy of health units in the hiring of workers and in the conduct of investments, the strengthening of incentives for the establishment of doctors and nurses in the areas in need. On exclusive dedication, we proposed that it should be of an optional nature, with an increase of 50 % of the basic remuneration, a increase of 25 % of the service time for the purpose of progress and with the application of the incentives already provided for in the scheme of the absenteeee vacancies. Whereas these are urgent proposals whose application must begin on 1 January 2022, we ask the Government to implement the text to be laid down in the budget for that guarantee. The Government's response was a promise of regulation until March 2022, and we all know what the promises of future regulation mean, with the drag of time, the limitation, the postponement. The country and Portuguese need to take up the investment in the SNS, ending the spending of millions of euros annually in the hiring of temporary work enterprises and in the transfer of care to the private sector, with resources that could and should be invested in strengthening the National Health Service. Mr. Prime Minister, refusing the PCP proposals, not giving the necessary response to health professionals and users means denying the right to consult, surgery, examinations, means leaving thousands of users without a family doctor and pushing the National Health Service to a situation with tremendous negative impacts. The current SNS situation requires solutions. The CFP presented them to the government and fought for them. So, Prime Minister, how does the Government respond to the solutions presented by the CFP? Whether or not you want to take on your realisation as of 1 January 2022? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u135	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, said in one of his replies that he was very proud to have broken with the so-called 'arch of governance'. For the Prime Minister presents himself here today with a budget that he cannot approve and with a country that objectively has become unmanageable. Therefore, Prime Minister, you can be very proud and you may be very happy, but I assure you that the country does not share that pride or happiness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u137	The situation you now have to face is a result of your strategy of arrival and maintenance in power, and it led the country, at the worst moment — the moment of exit of the pandemic — to a very difficult situation. And since he talked so much about state and public services and public functionality with his partners, he would like to leave him three questions, one of clarity of contradiction and the other two about inconsistencies. Mr Prime Minister said here that the main objective of this budget is economic growth. In fact, in the Budget report itself, it can be read that the recovery of pre-pandamia wealth levels, already in 2022, is an ambitious objective. I would like to know why that is ambitious, Mr. Prime Minister. It is, in the middle of this year, that of 2021, Ireland, Luxembourg, Estonia, Romania, Lithuania, Denmark, Hungary, Poland and Latvia had recovered this objective that Mr. Prime Minister considers it very ambitious in 2022,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u138	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u139	... it is expected that, at the end of this year, also the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland and Bulgaria will arrive there. In fact, Portugal will be the last countries to arrive. I would like to know why this objective is ambitious, because less ambitious only if we were the slowest country in Europe, Prime Minister. Secondly, on contrasts and inconsistencies, regarding fuels, he would like to know why his party had been leading here, a month ago, a CDS proposal to lower the ISP (charged on oil and energy products) and then, one month later, announced that he was going to return a portion of the ISP to the taxpayers. So if you're going to return it, wouldn't it make any more sense not to charge it? You say that this fuel measure, which is going to return, at best, €5/month in five months, costs EUR 133 million. Mr. Prime Minister, the increase of the ISP you made in 2016, but which says you did not, claim that even the Polygraph has already denied,... [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] ... allowed the State to fit EUR 313 million. You, five or six years later, won't even give back half of what you've already earned. I'd like to know if that's what you think is reasonable, at a time of so much fuel increase. One last question, regarding the contradiction that I call "well preaches Frei Tomás", has to do with one of the measures approved to please management—are many; between guards and breast milk banks, I don't know which side I will turn between so many. In fact, it is Budgets that are seen as being thought of with a fundamental strategy, turned to people and to growth...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u140	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u141	With regard to the measure announced by the Government that it would prohibit the hiring of precarious workers in companies that provided services to the State, I would like to know whether Mr. Prime Minister will apply the same prohibition to the State itself, because if he does so, everything will stop working. According to DGAEP (General Directorate for Administration and Public Employment), the number of precariouss in the state was almost 100,000! These are the last figures that have, in fact, increased by 37% with their government, most of which are in health and education. If you prohibit these services from providing services to the State itself, Prime Minister, you will paralyze the State. Therefore, I would like to know the meaning of a measure that requires companies what the state itself does not do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u142	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we already have a social crisis and a climate crisis in our hands. We need to show responsibility and maturity in the face of the real challenges we face. If the NAP considers that the government does what it should do in environmental and climate matters? No, away from that. If the PAN throws the towel to the ground instead of trying to gain advance in these matters? Not either. We are a responsible party, which has shown that it can put people's interests above any party computing. If the lead of this Budget is confirmed thanks to the irresponsibility of political forces present here, there are advances that the NAP has already conquered, or that it has good chances of conquering, that fall to the ground. Because that is what we are talking about: not to discuss the State budget in the field of specialty. I begin with the fight against energy poverty, which affects 20 % of the national population, forced to choose between eating or colding. One in five people has to make this choice in our country. And these packages, which the NAP will present in the field of expertise and which it has already presented to the Government, will not happen thanks to the irresponsibility of political forces present here. I also welcome support for the use of collective transport, apparently a priority for some of these political forces. Finally, in this budget, we wanted to achieve a significant reinforcement of the funds allocated to the increase and diversification of the supply of public transport. Thanks to the irresponsibility of these political forces, this will not happen. I cannot fail to strengthen the NAP's wager in which carbon is taxed and not people. In this budget we wanted to go further than the Government's proposal and further reduce to a percentage point the middle class IRS among the 3. a is 7. The steps. Thanks to the irresponsibility of some parties, that's not going to happen. If the state budget proposal is perfect? No, it has nothing to do with it. But because of these partisan calculations, none of these advances can improve this State budget, and that is the discharge of responsibility as representatives of the people of this country. And that's not gonna do the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u144	Demagogo!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u145	The PS is poor and ungrateful. The boy's making that figure and then not a slap!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u146	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, how many times have we heard about climate change in the last month? How many times have we heard of the danger they represent in the last year and the need to find strategies to mitigate them, of the rains, of the brutal forest fires, of the extreme phenomena that have been increasingly sporadic and rare? Increasing sectors of society are becoming aware of the dimension of danger and the need to provide answers. Even without feeding fatalistic projections, it is necessary to take steps in the right direction. Some of those who mention a thousand times that scientists need to listen to the warnings of the UN's scientific panel ( the United Nations ), which points to the need to take action. How many more studies and projections will be needed to open our eyes? The Minister of the Environment went to COP25 (25th Conference of the Parties and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) two years ago, saying that Portugal gave letters on this issue, and that it would quickly return to the prominent place in the climate change performance index. So from here to here, what did we see? We say what we all saw! We have seen increased support for superintensive agriculture and its mantle of excessive water consumption, pesticides, chemical fertilizers, fitofarms. Nor the drama which, because of the COVID-19, embarrassed the country, exposing the indignant living conditions of thousands of nearly-slave migrants, in which these farms settle, made the government change direction. That is why we have proposed to the Government enhanced support for family agriculture, adapting its contributions to social security to its income parks or establishing a strategy for the supply of public canteens by products of this type of agriculture. The government often fills its mouth with the defence of small and medium-sized agriculture, but not this second proposal, which has no budgetary impact, wanted to accept. We see, we all see, the obsession with the exploitation of lithium mines, announcing the disintegration of areas of the most balanced and with important biodiversity of our country and making noises to the voice and will of the people, as we still heard this weekend in Viana do Castelo, in a great demonstration, which we welcome, making our mucus ears even to their own mucuses that have manifested themselves against such options, not being able to take on, here, the commitment to respect the wishes of the people, as the Greens challenged the government to do. With regard to public transport, after a very positive advance to which the PS Government was obliged in the 2019 Budget, with the reduction of the price of the intermodal social pass and with the extension of its scope, which almost immediately withdrew thousands of cars from the big cities, after the difficulty we faced with the epidemic, which led many people to stop using public transport, because of the fear that was promoted now, today, was the time to give a signal. From then on, ensuring quality offer of public transport throughout the country, starting with the many locations where it still does not arrive today. And this is not guaranteed in this State Budget proposal for 2022. But also making the way for free public transport, because it does not defend the environment by exchanging individual cars moved to fossil fuels for the same number of individual cars moved to electricity or other.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u149	The answer is the massification of public transport, and this requires large-scale measures. We therefore proposed that the Government should include free public transport for all young people up to 18 years of age in the State budget proposal for 2022. See we're not asking for everything. And if we were to ask, we would not be the first country in the European Union to ensure this total freeness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u150	Not the second, not the third!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u151	But we admitted to going by steps. Behavioral steps, since a large number of young people already have access to the school pass. It is about generalising all and extending their scope.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u152	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u153	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, it is urgent that these important steps be taken. It is urgent to start with young people, promoting the use of public transport from an early age, with immediate impacts and for the future. Mr. Prime Minister, not that step the government wanted to take. What, then, is the strategy, Prime Minister? Because the State budget is an exercise in making options. The choices that the Government insists on and, above all, those that insist on failing to give due consideration to its priorities. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u154	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. Mr Maló de Abreu, I recommend that you read the Journal of the Republic of last 20, where there is the opening of the competition for the preparation of the Coimbra maternity project at the Hospital Center of the University of Coimbra, after we obtained, as said last time that I was here, the agreement of the new President of the Coimbra Municipal Chamber, because obviously it did not make sense to announce a solution without hearing the current President of the Coimbra Municipal Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Regarding family doctors, it is true, we have not yet achieved the goal, yet we have more than 1000 family doctors than we had in 2015. It happens that we also have more than 400 000 users than we had in 2015. It is because we know that we have problems in setting and attracting this career that we have envisaged in this State budget incentives to attract more family doctors and fix them in the areas lacking. Mr Soeiro did not say a word about the State budget. He spoke exclusively of a project on working legislation that will come to debate in this House of the Republic. What I ask you is this: why will you vote against the State budget tomorrow when you really are against working legislation that will not be voting tomorrow? That's what I didn't get! [[P.S.'s applause.]] On labour law, I am not frustrated with the discussion. The high priority we set in the Dignified Work Agenda is the fight against precariousness, the biggest challenge that exists in our working relationships. Disciplinating telework, disciplining digital platforms, forcing temporary work firms to hire those working for temporary work companies to go to the heart of the problem and solve the problem. When Mr Deputy devalues the measure, to which we have already committed ourselves, as regards redundancies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u156	It's not dismissal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u157	... is because you are not taking into account that 80 % to 85 % of the redundancies that take place each year are related to term contracts and not to unfinished contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u158	It's not dismissal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u159	What we're doing is actually going to the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You are going next door because you want a pretext for voting against a State budget where none of this is under discussion. Mrs Paula Santos, the question concerning the densification of the regulation of exclusive dedication consists of the draft Statute of the National Health Service, which is already under public discussion. But I ask the honourable Member: if we take into account what we have regulated in the Statute of the National Health Service and introduce it, as a rule, in the State budget is available to enable the State budget in the specialty, or is it not available? That is how you resolve your doubts about what it is to leave to regulate in March, it is already regulated in the State budget. We must reach the stage of the speciality of the budget, Mrs Deputies, and without your vote we have not reached. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, yes, our main objective is to support economic growth. What is strange is that a Member who has been, although for a short time, the Secretary of State for Tourism does not realize the difference that tourism has in Portugal with respect to all the countries he has mentioned. Compare growth in Portugal with that of other countries in Europe where tourism has a share in the economy similar to that of the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u160	Ah, now the problem is the weight! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u161	Compare, and you'll see how we compare quite well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u162	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u163	I know that the pandemic does not seem to have occurred, but we have lived for two years in a very difficult pandemic, and this pandemic required the hiring of many human resources to strengthen the response needs in schools and in the National Health Service. In fact, that is why we had a significant increase in term contracts, and even though we had them, otherwise we would not have been able to respond to the pandemic. Mr. Nelson Silva put his finger on the wound. Indeed, to prevent debate in the specialty is to prevent all political forces from contributing, with the will of them, to improve this proposal for a State budget. There is a part of this Parliament which, I know, has a fundamental disagreement with this budget and which, therefore, no matter what other amendments it made, it was not going anywhere. But there is another half of this Parliament that can and should actually contribute, in the field of expertise, as the NAP is doing, to improve the budget. The basic condition is that the Budget, tomorrow, is made viable so that it can be improved at the stage of speciality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u164	Greens have no right to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u165	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to a next round of requests for clarification. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the country is at the forefront of a political crisis, a genuine national irresponsibility. Adding the political crisis to the economic and social crisis we are experiencing, to the energy crisis we have and to the crisis of lack of raw material, which many companies feel, is a complete irresponsibility, and irresponsibility in this case, Prime Minister, has a face, has a name and the main ones responsible are you, the Government and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u168	The responsibility is yours, Prime Minister. It was Mr Prime Minister who, six years ago, presented the management, saying that it was a stable and lasting solution. We now see that, in addition to incompetence and bad results, there has also been a crisis and political instability. The responsibility is yours, Prime Minister. You trusted the Left Block and the Communist Party as being responsible parties. After all, over time, we see that they have no solutions, they have no vision of the future, as the Prime Minister has already admitted, and they have no political responsibility. Political responsibility is therefore yours, Prime Minister. It was Mr Prime Minister who, a year ago, said he did not want anything from the PSD in budgetary terms, an attitude of unqualified arrogance and, now, of total irresponsibility. The responsibility is yours, Prime Minister. It was Mr. Prime Minister who, even last week, allowed another machadada in social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u170	The way business leaders have been disrespected is totally unacceptable. It is true that Mr. Prime Minister has apologized, but these are cases where apologies are not asked, they are avoided.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u172	The responsibility is yours, Prime Minister. It was you who, over these weeks, has not been able to effectively competently and fully succeed in this budgetary negotiation and avoid the crisis situation. The responsibility is yours, Prime Minister. It was you who, over these months, has not been able to make reforms, has not been able to solve the problems and has created political instability and a situation that makes us in a dead end. Finally, leaving a question which is also a challenge, Prime Minister: is Mr Prime Minister now going to assume his responsibilities? It is actually time to assume responsibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u173	Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, allow me to start my speech with a reference to a few words of Mr Rui Rio. Dr. Francisco Sá Carneiro and Dr. Mário Soares are people of the foundation of our democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u175	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u176	...have had their way and had their moments. Dr. Mário Soares cannot be brought here by Dr. Rui Rio to confirm Dr. Rui Rio's views. Dr. Mário Soares, in his first presidential election, had the support of the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u177	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u178	That's where Dr. Mário Soares' approach to the PCP began.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u179	That's not true! He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u180	Dr. Mário Soares, later promoted the movement « Portugal, what future? », which was an attempt to create, within the Socialist Party, an alliance on the left...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u181	Well remembered! [[It has nothing to do with it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u182	And finally, Dr. Mário Soares, in the great movements, in the Magna Class, always knew where he should be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, there is one word that has gone through all the interventions: instability. We are old enough to remember how the PSD and CDS left the country in 1983. It was at that time that we called for the second time the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ). We are also old enough to remember how the PSD and CDS left the country in 2004, with that boy of Figueira da Foz who transformed the government into an authentic "house of boys", or another...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u183	What about 2011?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u184	We also know how the PSD and the CDS in the previous government left politics, the irrevocable policy. And today we know how the PSD and the CDS are in their own parties, i.e. whether there is political instability at the moment is even the political instability of the right one presented here in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Today, there is a problem with the Portuguese right, and this problem is called ultramontanism, traulitism. The Portuguese right, today, is the most ultramountain and the most traumatic of all the right we have had so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot, as Mr Prime Minister has been saying, and as I have evolved in my own position, make agreements with the right when the right does not want to make agreements. The problem with our political system is that this right does not want to make agreements. This right stood in the troika and never again came out of the troika... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...and this right here wants to choose a fake for your leader, because he misses the troika. That's the point, that's the circumstance! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not afraid of democracy. Democracy is what is in PS's DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). If there has to be elections there will be, but we do not want to create a crisis: we do not want to create a crisis that prevents people from having a national minimum wage increase in January; we do not want to create a crisis so that people are unable, for example public officials, to have an increase in January and have their own revaluation careers; we do not want to create a crisis so that pensioners do not have an extraordinary increase in January; we do not want to create a crisis so that pensioners do not have an increase in pensioners who go beyond the 1000 € have a significant increase in their pensions; we do not want to create a crisis because we want to continue to invest, we want companies to use public funds to continue to invest. So we do not want to create any crisis. Our Budget is moderate, it's a Budget that looks at employment, it's a Budget that looks at businesses, it's a Budget that looks at people's dignity. It is therefore Mr Prime Minister, who was surprised that I heard the speeches of the parties that have supported this government solution. I do not understand Mrs Catarina Martins' speech when, looking at her nine proposals, she cannot find the evolution that the government has made. This evolution is clear! Now, if Mrs Catarina Martins wants to go 100 Km/h and we want to go 80 Km/h is because we know that ahead of the 100 Km, we have a problem that we may not be able to solve...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u185	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u186	This is the central issue. But for me, even harder to hear is Mr Jerónimo de Sousa's intervention, because the PCP, an institutional party, a union party, a party that looks at the workers, with their long history of 100 years, knows that the non-approval of this State budget is the return to other forms of government that will be harmful to the workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u187	Mr. Deputies, please conclude. It's been a long time since.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u188	Mr. João Oliveira, ahead comrades! Join your voice, and we will certainly have a budget that allows workers to find a solution, a path and a progress that is essential for us to continue this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr João Oliveira, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, must meet the circumstances. We are here, in the next few hours, at the time of continuing to negotiate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u189	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u190	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is in the annual negotiation of the budget vote that the minority Government has to create parliamentary support conditions. The country knows that six years ago, Mr. Prime Minister also knows and is not finding out now. The subject that I wanted to address today and now is strictly budgetary and I hope that it will have a direct answer. I would like to ask you directly what the reasons are for the Socialist Party to defend what remains of the early pension scheme of the Government on the right. The so-called sustainability factor was created as a penalty of 0, 56 % to compensate for the existence of a legal retirement age, which was a fixed age. From the moment that the right has increased the retirement age, according to the average life expectancy, this cut has ceased to have any relationship with the sustainability of social security. What the right made, from 2014 onwards, was quadrupling the penalty for early reforms and creating a formula that would make this penalty keep going up. Thus, it was 12 % up to more than 15 %. The result was the removal of thousands of people tired of a whole life of work or pushed away, because of the despair of long-term unemployment, for early reforms and condemnation of poverty reforms. At the beginning of the 2016 negotiations, the Socialist Party and Minister Vieira da Silva recognized that this unjust regime would have to end gradually. And, by negotiation with the Left Block, this double punishment was being withdrawn for most pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u192	There is, however, a group of 62 000 pensioners, according to the Government, who had the chance to retire between 2014 and 2018 and another group, which covers 10 % of those who will be reformed in the coming years, who keep this cut as a mark of the austerity that has already taken care of the country and from which we want to free ourselves. These people have a double penalty in reform because they anticipate the age of reform and since 2014 the sustainability factor only applies to early reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u193	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u194	They are those who suffer double penalty; they are those that Vieira da Silva referred to in 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u195	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u196	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u197	These are the ones we want to correct and that nothing has to do with point (c) which Mr Prime Minister mentioned here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u199	Mr. Prime Minister, the cut-off of the sustainability factor in pension pensions of thousands of workers is unfair, it is random, it is a rescission of troika miserbilism. How can what Vieira da Silva called « double unacceptable penalty» be now qualified, by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, as indispensable, to the point of creating a political crisis that no one wants? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u200	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the Government knows that housing issues have been systematically put by the CFP in the debate on the answers that the country needs for the problems that are felt by people on a daily basis. The Government knows that the prospect of responding to this issue is far from responding not to the CFP, but to the Portuguese, either on the public housing park or on the lease regime. The Government presents a Budget which is a sort of RRP chain cap. « Public investment in housing! “, claims the country. “ PRR! », replies the Government. Budget, you don't even see it! Well, if there is a multi-annual RPP budget for housing for 26 000 families, where does that go, when only in 87 municipalities the State has assumed the immediate need of 29 000? Oh, my God! I repeat: there are 29 000 families who need home only in 87 Portuguese municipalities and the PRR, which is the holy miracle of the government, only in this lot has been overcome! In the lease, is the Government's solution to delay the application of the law of redundancies to contracts prior to 1990 for one year? Does he push with the belly, leaving the threat standing over the lodgers and leaving all the others who are already facing the problems of a inhumane regime that is in effect today? We know that last month, when the CFP brought to this House proposals and concrete solutions to repeal these burdensome rules of the law of evictions, as is known, the PS voted on the right side and led the CFP proposals on the lease. Mr. Prime Minister, you didn't forget, did you? Now what does the government want, after all? How does the government respond not to the CFP, but to the millions of families facing this concrete threat of being expelled from their homes and neighbourhoods? And even thousands of micro, small and medium-sized companies, doomed to close the doors and look for other stops? Tell us there, Prime Minister! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u202	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP now has the floor. [[Pause.]] I believe that the honourable Member is not in the Chamber, so we will proceed to the next request for clarification, with which we will conclude this round. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Prime Minister, were six long years ahead of the government. Six years! in these six years, he was unable to fulfill his word, was not solidarity, nor solved any of the problems of the Maderians. He did not keep his word regarding the ferry, which he promised for the whole year, did not correct the Council of Ministers resolution, nor clarified the 50% he promised for the new Madeira hospital. He refused all aid applications, including moratoriums. It did not regulate the social mobility allowance, it did not advance with the turbulence detection equipment at Madeira airport, nor with the remodeling of the PSP teams, nor with the increase in the funding of the University of Madeira, among many other matters. Mr. Prime Minister, you have not taken on your responsibilities in Madeira either. He continues to refuse to pay for tax correctness and health care and medicines from the PSP ( Public Security Police ), the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the Armed Forces. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, six years later it's almost all the same! This government has not solved any of Madeira's problems in those of its responsibilities. Mr. Prime Minister, he had several opportunities to solve these problems, however, he chose not to do so and to continue to harm the Madeirans. Mr. Prime Minister, how was he able to turn his back on the Madeirans? This is the question the Madeirans ask, but I will not ask you. And I am not going to do it, because we know very well why I didn't want to solve these problems. Mr. Prime Minister, I conclude by saying that we will be here, as always, to claim what we have right and to defend indefinitely Madeira and Madeira. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u204	in this round, there were seven requests for clarification, but there were only five. I wonder if the government wants us to stay with six or if I immediately give the floor to the next speaker. [[Pause.]] Mr. Paulo Moniz, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I have listened very carefully to Mr. Prime Minister. And there were two expressions that often used in the rostrum — « solidarity» and « certain accounts ». In addition to certain accounts, I think it is very important that these be correct. With regard to the Azores, this budget proposal withdraws more than EUR 20 million from the allocation of transfers compared to the other budget. It is true that this reduction is based on the rule of the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u206	However, despite being a certain account, it is not a correct account, because it does not take into account the enormous economic and developmental difficulties and face the pandemic crisis, as the Azores did. It was an obligation of right and right accounts to have this conscience. We are not children of a lesser god. in the same way that you, in front of Europe, call for understanding and economic stimulus to overcome difficulties, the Azorians have the same legitimacy and the same difficulty. What we expected from you was exactly that, taking this into account, and as Prime Minister of the whole country, it recognized that the EUR 20 million, in addition to the fact that it is true, is not a proper account for this objective and justification. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr. Prime Minister, on solidarity, the Azores have issued debt to deal with the difficulties arising from a pandemic, but many of these difficulties come from the inheritance of a 24-year public debt of socialist governments. The government chaired by José Manuel Bolieiro has attempted to overcome these difficulties that he inherited. This solidarity should mean that at least the interest in this debt should be the same as in the country. It is not possible to understand that, in the same country, the Azores are allowed to issue debts often with interest that are the double and triple of what the Country can obtain. This is not solidarity, it is not what Robert Schuman said, i.e. that solidarity is in fact and is built on concrete actions. What was expected of you, who so much appreciates solidarity, was that the interests to which the Azores need to resort in order to deal with the difficulties were aligned with the best interests that the country can achieve. It makes no sense to call European solidarity the mutualisation of debt and the benefit of historically low interest when this strategy and justice are not made in relation to the Azores. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u207	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u208	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, in democracy, there are never exitless alleys! In democracy, there are always exits, better ones, worse ones. The first good exit is the Budget to be approved and everything continues well. The second exit is the Budget not approved and we have to rule in twelfths. The third exit, which is not for any of us to comment on, because it depends solely and exclusively on the assessment that the President of the Republic makes, is whether or not there are elections. As far as we are concerned, there is something I can assure you: we assume all our responsibilities, in the understanding that there are elections or in the understanding that there are no elections. There are elections, there is something you can have as right: Mrs. Deputie doesn't know who her leader will be,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u209	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u210	...but I know I will lead my party in these elections. This is already a huge difference in stability! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I must also tell you the following, drawing a little bit from memory: from the stability solutions that the right has so far presented to the country, none has resisted six years. When they first joined the CDS-PP, they ruled from 1979 to 1983, i.e. about four years ; the second time they ruled with the CDS-PP was between 2002 and 2005, i.e. about three years. The only time they managed to comply with a full legislature associated with the CDS-PP was in the Government of Dr. Passos Coelho, who, as you recall, were particularly agitated by the irrevocability of the resignations of the head of the Government CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mrs Deputy, in the political solution we have had since 2016, with a PS minority government, which has sometimes had more support and less support from the PCP, the Left Block and the ENP, and in the last legislature, also from the NAP, the truth is that we have already overcome all that degree of instability that the right hand carries with it whenever it reaches power. The only times that didn't happen was when Professor Cavaco managed to have two absolute majority. With this exception, the right was always the greatest factor of government instability in this country. Always! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Joana Mortágua, first of all, there are no 60 000 people — who said so — there are 250,000 people. [[BE's protests.]] Secondly, what was established in 2015 and that we have been running gradually is the elimination of sustainability factors for those exceptional circumstances: first, very long-term contributory careers; second, rapid wear activities, as recently happened with the situation in the quarry. This budget may be enshrined in the left-wing bloc proposal to eliminate the principle of sustainability for people with more than 80 % incapacity, provided that, of course, the budget reaches the stage of the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u211	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u212	Mr Bruno Dias, what is envisaged in this State budget is the postponement for another year of this rule of the "Crist law" so that we can make the census of the universe of the people covered and we can make decisions on the income allowance. The intervention on the lease market, as history tells us, should be very prudent, very cautious, so that we do not shift between the tragedy that has been frozen decades, which led to the degradation of heritage, the emptying of cities, the abandonment of houses and to what has been the rule-free liberalisation introduced by Christian legislation which, in a context of strong economic growth, particularly of tourism, has in particular disbalanced the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u213	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u214	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa was kind enough to say that she does not ask me any questions, so she spares me from answering. Mr. Paulo Moniz, first of all, as I said, and well, as regards the law on regional finance, we are fulfilling it. You're law, so we're doing it! As for debt interest, I draw attention to the following: when debt is contracted before the Republic, we have been impacting on the autonomous region the capacity that the Republic has had to reduce, thanks to its credibility, the amount of debt interest. When autonomous regions go to the market with their own credibility, they obviously pay the cost of the debt the market charges. But whenever debt is from the Republic, we, several years ago—that is, since we are government, because in the time of the previous government this did not happen—we have had an impact on the reduction of the interest rate that we have fortunately obtained on the market for autonomous regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u215	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken a moment in the order of inscriptions, which eventually led to two gentlemen. PSD Members had made follow-up interventions, which should not have happened. I apologize to the House for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u216	It was ultraperipheral!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u217	We will enter the last round of questions to Mr Prime Minister, who again has seven requests for clarification to the extent that Mrs Bebiana Cunha was not present in the previous round for reasons that are not her responsibility. So we still have seven requests for clarification, the first being Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u218	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is a good State budget. It is a Budget that, if not approved, will prevent the consolidation of the advances started in 2015! It will also prevent the continuation of a path that has been completely ignored by Mr. Paulo Moniz and which in the case of the Azores meant full compliance with the law of regional finances, which never happened with PSD / CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A law on regional finance which was approved by the PSD, which you have also forgotten to mention. It has also forgotten to mention that the ratio of the public debt of the Azores is the lowest in the country. In fact, it has forgotten to mention also that the path we have travelled since 2015 allowed for the first time a financial participation of inter-air connections, with the support of SATA; the installation of international projects in the Azores, such as the Atlantic Observatory, the AIR Center, the Centre for Space Operations and the Atlantic Centre ; support for the revitalization of the Third Island ; the creation of the network of meteorological radars and new submarine cables; a strong bet on the space agenda, with the creation of Portugal Space, the Azores, and the development of the Port of Space ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u220	... participation in 85 % to cover the damage caused by Hurricane Lorenzo, in which the solidarity of the Republic was deeply expressed ; or the distribution of 5 % of the European steel bazaar. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what did the current government of the Azores, led by the PSD, the CDS and the PPM, with the support of the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative? The Space Port is today called into question because of the inaction of the regional government. As for Hurricane Lorenzo, the regional government, led by the PSD, in an act that we can only classify with pure incompetence, simply forgot to request more than 60 million euros from the Republic. As for the bazouca, the first 117 million for the Azores, within the framework of the mobilising agendas, were distributed by the regional government to the south in a total lack of transparency to only 30 Azori companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Leadered on the right, a climate of distrust, suspicion and lack of transparency prevails in the Azores. Question : is this the future we want for our country? This is certainly not the future I want for my land! Mr Prime Minister, we know that "sometimes it doesn't go well" and that sometimes things "take longer" than you want. But over these six years there have been many demands from the Azorians who saw the light of the day and this path will be questioned if tomorrow the vote against the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival, the Left Block and the PCP prevail. If insanity prevails, history will not judge them with kindness! It remains for me, Prime Minister, to thank your always ready willingness to support our region, to do more and better and make it a fundamental element of our country's projection in the world. There have been many achievements and I am sure that the future reserves much more! The Azores were always able to count on the PS when it was government in the Republic. The same cannot be said about the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u221	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the CFP has presented and defended solutions for the response to workers' problems to be achieved. There is an urgent need for effective recovery of public administration workers, which already take 11 % of the loss of purchasing power with their frozen salaries. They were considered essential, they were applauded, additional efforts were required in the fight against the health crisis and neither the Budget nor the government's commitments give them an answer in the effective recovery of their wages and careers. The reality of the country, Mr. Prime Minister, demands a brake on redundancies, the defense of jobs, the fight against precariousness and wild working hours, the fight against abuse at night and by shifts, the guarantee of decent times and time to live. To refuse these measures is to allow the opportunisms of the patronate, which, the pretext of the epidemic, fires in catadoupa, attacks rights and increases exploitation. It is necessary to put an end to the replacement of workers with rights by workers without rights, to eradicate precariousness, including in the State, and to ensure the effective linkage to all workers who respond to permanent needs. For all this, the PCP has presented solutions. As we have done to ensure fair protection of unemployment, by extending access to unemployment benefit and strengthening this response. In 2021, it was necessary to approve the automatic renewal of unemployment benefit because the existing rules do not guarantee such protection. The Government did not want to learn from this lesson and not only does it not keep automatic renewal as it refuses to change these rules so that unemployment protection is effectively ensured. The Government's refusal to give the answer that is required and to make the necessary commitments results in the bulk of workers' problems and their social disprotection. The question is, what choice does the government have to make? What is the response not to the CFP, Mr Prime Minister, but to the millions of workers subject to precariousness, dismissals, deregulation of hours and unemployment? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u223	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, after so many speeches, could not fail to bring to this debate a subject which has been recurrent and which, from my point of view, deserves to be revisited, even because, in the perspective of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government of the Socialist Party, it is absolutely essential: economic growth. Economic growth is, in fact, central to the Socialist Party and has a central place in this budget. But it is appropriate to clarify many of the things that have been said about economic growth in this debate so far. We do not really know what the right — the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and even the Reach — wants to do from the point of view of the economic model for the country. But we already know today where the PSD and CDS were between 2012 and 2015. That's it, we know! And we know something that seems very important to us about economic growth. This graph is here — because, as the people say, it is worth more a figure, a drawing than a thousand words — it is very clear. [[Right now, the speaker displayed the chart he mentioned.]] This red line here is GDP. GDP fell as never when you ruled. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] In fact, there's even a perfect storm, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, which you have not mentioned today, which is the line of the tax burden. The tax burden has risen as never before, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] So this is the result of your policies! But I've heard other things about economic growth. I heard that economic growth had been very weak and so forth, and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah... Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the facts, and we'll go to another one. The speaker displayed the chart he mentioned. The economic growth of Portugal, which is in red, is below the average of the European Union when you ruled the country. The revenue you have implemented is below the European average [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, economic growth is only above the European Union average in the years when the PS ruled the country. We therefore converge with the European Union when we drive the country. [[PSD protests.]] But I heard something even more surprising from Mrs Cecilia Meireles and even Mr Telmo Correia, who said that the country was recovering badly. This is another graph from Eurostat. I don't know if you've seen this graph from Eurostat. The speaker displayed the chart he mentioned. This is 2nd. the quarter and shows that the country is, in spite of everything, the second country of the European Union that is recovering better! Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's the second country that's getting better! Moreover, if you see it in homologous terms, it is the fifth country in the European Union that is recovering better. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I want to say the following: each one does what he has to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u225	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u226	You played your role between 2012 and 2015 and the economy grew 6%. We played our role between 2016 and 2019 and the economy grew 9%. So that is what you have contributed to us to get away from the European Union and we have contributed to being closer to the European Union. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u227	Finally, I would like to conclude by asking the Prime Minister whether or not this budget brings the same impetus as we have in the past for economic growth and to be able to distribute what Mr Rui Rio did not want to distribute. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u228	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u230	I'm sorry, Mr. Duarte Alves. Mrs Cecilia Meireles asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u231	I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute a document, given that I was directly quoted by the honourable Member who just used the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u232	Madam Member, if you would like to tell us what the document is...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u233	It is a document which has been published today and which says the following : « Fact Check. Portuguese economy is the ones that are recovering faster from the pandemic, as the PS says? », statement classified as a cheater!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u234	Madam Member, if you wish to send the document to the Bureau, the same will be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u235	I have had this discussion this morning and I ask that the document be distributed throughout the House. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have the opportunity to read the document. You don't need to comment now. Mr Duarte Alves, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u237	Mr President, Prime Minister, the CFP has brought to the discussion solutions for State intervention in enterprises and strategic sectors, in particular solutions for energy and fuel costs. The speculative logic behind rising energy and fuel prices could be solved if the State had control over the energy sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u239	If the State had a company such as Galp could intervene in the market by determining a price at which the remaining competitors of the market would have to adapt. But the Government rejects this line of solution presented by the CFP, as opposed to the solution for the establishment of a maximum price scheme. The measures announced by the Government a few days ago confirm that the Government's option is to return a small part of the taxes paid for the price of fuels and to leave the millions of profits of the economic groups in the energy sector. As the burden of taxation on fuels is undeniable, it is already clear that tax reduction measures, without a maximum price scheme, mean little more than zero in reducing costs for consumers. Moreover, the recent reduction of 2 cents in the price of fuels by reduction of the ISP was immediately absorbed by the following increase, which shows precisely that one thing without the other makes no sense. It is therefore necessary to work on two fronts: in tax relief, with the purpose of additional and double taxation, but also in margins and maximum prices, ensuring that these tax measures have an impact on the price. In the framework where we are, what options does the government take? Does it continue to be irreducible in its position and to refuse the solutions presented by the PCP? Do you refuse the measures for a tax relief, articulated with a maximum price fixing? Mr President, what options do the Government want to take to combat this fuel price problem, which is very serious for families right now? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u240	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mr Carlos Reis of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u241	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, in August 2020, last summer His Excellency the Prime Minister told the country that on the day his subsistence depended on the PSD, his Government would finish. The phrase has already been recalled by Mr President of the Party, but I do it again because it is closely linked to a subject which I want to bring here, which is that of national defence. at the end of six years of government, the only truly structural reform that this government has to present to the country depended on the PSD to be approved. I am, of course, talking about the amendment of the National Defence Act and the Basic Organic Law of the Organization of Armed Forces. I know that it is the political instability that is here today on the agenda, but I insist on remembering that, in matters of sovereignty, the country has had one party in the opposition and no other, the PSD. In the budget presented by the Government this week, a cut of 25 % — 25 % — is applied in military health, Mrs and Mrs. Members, in relation to the estimated value for this year. This was the case in last year's budget, with a cut of 44 % from the implementation estimate, and this was the case in 2020, with a cut of 42 % from the implementation estimate vis-à-vis 2019. For those who would turn the page of austerity, Prime Minister, in the case of military health, wrote here a whole new volume, a whole new chapter. And if there are Portuguese that could not be forgotten in this State Budget are exactly those who serve the country in our Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u243	But in fact, in the PSD, we no longer expected this Budget to respond to the problems of recruitment and retention in the Armed Forces, we no longer expected the disabled to be valued by the Armed Forces, with whom Portugal has an obvious debt of gratitude. And we have also lost hope that the government's vision in the defence industries will change. They will continue to condemn the Arsenal do Alfeite to another year of strikes, to another year of cash problems, to another year of disinvestment in their infrastructures. Your Budget, in this area, only takes refuge in the acquisition of new ocean patrol vessels, when most of the ships in the Navy are stopped and waiting for a solution, as is public and notorious. All branches of the Armed Forces, all three branches of the Armed Forces — notice well! — see, in this State budget, its reduced budget. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a unfortunate situation, in which the government forgets, in its budget, the men and women who have saved the largest health logistics undertaking in recent decades: the vaccination process. If it has already been concluded that your Government's budget does not serve the CFP, if it has already been concluded that this Government's budget does not serve the Left Block, we can also conclude that this State budget does not serve the military and does not serve the Armed Forces. [[PSD applause.]] This Government had the opportunity to have a leadership of responsible opposition and a sense of state. And that's right: sense of state. It is this sense of State that obliges us to say here that this is a budgetary document which does not recognize, that it does not value, that it does not support the men and women who give their life for our country. And, therefore, it can only be a bad budget for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u244	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u245	Mr President, Prime Minister, the public school needs qualified, valued and in appropriate numbers so that the number of students per class can be reduced and that no student is left without a teacher at any discipline, as is still the case today. The CFP has proposed concrete measures to combat the aging of the teaching body and create conditions for the attractiveness of young people to teaching. Proposals in the first line to combat the enormous precariousness of the more than 20 000 hired teachers, proceeding with the extraordinary linkage in 2022 of teachers with 10 or more years of service and in 2023 of teachers with three or more years of service; by creating incentives for the relocation of teachers to the most deprived regions of them, such as Grande Lisboa or Algarve ; and by solving problems that have long been traced, such as the limitations of the norm-work, constraints on career progression, counting of service time and the reconstruction of career, proper organization of work, access to retirement. Mr. Prime Minister, to reject the solutions presented by the CFP means the removal of young people from teaching and the worsening of the problem of lack of teachers, particularly qualified teachers; not to contradict, and rather to implement, the forecast of exit of more than half of the current teachers by the end of the decade, in a context in which about 7500 teachers left schools, between 2016 and 2021. This will have very negative consequences on the response capacity of public school and on the quality of education in our country. There is no concrete action in this budget to combat these problems, nor is there any commitment on the part of the Government to solve them, nor even in the recovery plan of learning. On the contrary, all we know so far is the drag of the trade union blockade. Mr Prime Minister, in view of the size of these problems and the urgency of their solution, how is it justified for the Government to continue to refuse the solutions proposed by the CFP by refusing the solutions to this serious problem? PCP applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u246	Finally, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr President, I should like to say that I am very grateful for your understanding in the face of my absence in the past. I would like to make a sort of preamble, because today, in this House, we have heard, several times, a certain joy with the possibility of leading this budget and the NAP reiterates its position: we understand that every effort must be made to ensure that this budget reaches the specialty, so that the dialogue that has to be made by tomorrow. by the Portuguese people to whom, so many times, in this House, we thank and because they need a State Budget, in time and time, for the year 2022, it is essential that it is still possible for these bridges to be made. But I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister at this particular moment a few questions, particularly regarding health, in particular mental health. This is because we have experienced a health crisis, in which the emergency lines were fundamental, but we know well that, despite urgent and fundamental, they are not enough to structurally solve the problems that exist, nor to respond to the real mental health needs, and even make out of the drawer a national mental health plan, which has been constantly postponed. The Community mental health teams, which were already urgent before this health crisis, are, however, insufficient to cover the entire national territory. We must also remember that, since 2018, on a proposal from the NAP, in the State Budget, 40 psychologists for the National Health Service have been recruited and the political will needed to complete this process has been lacking. As for the mental health responses of proximity, particularly in health centres, so necessary to the needs of our population, in particular in order to avoid other costs to the public record, we cannot fail to realise, in general, the real availability of the government to implement and unlock the competitions for psychologists in our health centers. [[Congrats from PAN Inês de Sousa Real.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u248	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Mrs Lara Martinho, I would like to thank you for your summary of the work we have done over the past six years in order to defend the autonomous regions, including the Autonomous Region of the Azores. I would like to point out here that this must be the first budgetary debates in which no one is calling into question two facts that have become so common that they have ceased to be a subject: these budgets not only comply with the law of regional finances, but also comply with the law of local finances, which continue to be fulfilled in this State budget. Mrs Diana Ferreira, first of all, there is no freezing in this State budget. Since the beginning of this legislature, we have established the principle that there should be an annual update of salaries in the Public Administration, after years without such an update, due to the estimated inflation for the previous year. Thus, in 2020, there was a salary update of 0, 3 %, which was the estimated assessment for 2019 ; in 2021, there was no negative inflation in 2020, of less 0, 1 % ; and that is why this year being the estimated inflation of 1 %, we updated 0, 9 %, corresponding to the inflation of 2020 and 2021. There's no freezing. Secondly, let us repudiate the careers of the Public Administration, because civil servants have the right to predict their career and this is the fifth consecutive budget for us to go, in which there is thawing in the careers of the Public Administration. That is why, in all wages, there is an appreciation of 2, 5 % and, if we take account of the new contracts, the salary will increase, in the next year, 3 %, compared with the previous year, and the last year of payment of the famous recovery of the teacher's time of service — for the next year, we will finally regularise that recovery. As regards labour law, I repeat, it is now in public discussion that it will necessarily come to the Assembly of the Republic, because it is its competence, and until then we will have plenty of time to work towards improving that legislation and so that it can be approved in this House, as it should be. Until then, it makes no sense to vote on the budget in accordance with labour law, which is not currently in the vote here. Mr. Carlos Pereira asks whether there is greater momentum in economic growth and I will say that there has never been such a great impulse. Public investment grew by 30 % and did not say that we did not comply with the Budget, because, on the average of the last five years, with regard to public investment, we executed 85 % and last year we executed even 91 %. It is a great boost, in addition to tax incentives attributed to recovery by companies. Mr Duarte Alves, first of all I find it difficult to understand the question of whether the company was public. Would this mean that we would buy at a higher price on the international market and incorporate, as a loss of the company, the differential of that price? But that was something that would destroy the company in the short term. Well, we can't manage like that. That is why we intervened, firstly, with the legislation on the profit margin. In fact, it was adopted in this House with the vote against the right and which Mr President of the Republic has already promulgated, and we have been adopting tax measures to try to control the price, pointing out that until now only France and Portugal have adopted measures to control the price of fuel. With regard to Mr Reis, who is asking us the question of stability, I must say first of all that — and this is very clear — there is no reduction in the defence budget. In 2021, there was an extraordinary increase to pay and assume a debt of the IASFA ( Institute for Social Action of the Armed Forces ). That debt is paid, disappears, and that is why there is continuity. As for maintenance, the good news is that it entered into service this week, as was expected, the frigate of the Bartolomeu Dias class, of the Navy, which was in repair, and we wait for July of the next year to enter into force to another, thus maintaining the recovery effort. Mrs Ana Mesquita, the expenditure with teachers for 2022 will increase by 5 % — 5 % — 5 %. We have been having a steady increase in bindings. Over the past six years, 11 000 teachers have been involved; in the external competition of 2021, 2424 ; and in 2020 - 2021, through the reinforcement of hours or tutorships, there was a hiring of more than 3300 teachers. However, we are well aware of the seriousness of the demographic transition in the teaching body. That is why we have commissioned a study, which is completed, and we are now available to work with trade union structures, and also with the CFP, to adopt concrete measures, in order to ensure the response to the need for rejuvenation of the teaching body and ensure that there will be no lack of teaching bodies. Finally, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, we have all the availability to work in the field of expertise and I want to remind you that, within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, we have reserved EUR 88 million specifically to implement the National Mental Health Programme, which, well we know, is a priority that this pandemic has made even more present. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to interventions by the various sides. For an intervention by the PSD, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u251	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister and the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party are — both! — responsible for management! in this film we must add the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party as protagonists of a government solution that was "sold" in the last elections, to the country and to the Portuguese, as a magic solution to the problems of the country. They said it was a solution that guarantees stability. They told the seven winds that they were self - sufficient and, of course, they did not need to talk to anyone else! Sovereignty and a serious lack of democratic humility have never been characteristic of a good government and much less of a minority government. And, on the top of the cake, I recall Mr. Prime Minister's statement — which is not present at the moment, but he told me that he would already arrive — or the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, or perhaps the two: « On the day when we need the PSD to approve the State budget, the government falls! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Prime Minister, there was another after all! And he prays: « On the day the management partners vote against the State budget, the government falls! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is a variable that did not consider in its governance, which is absolutely regrettable, because this variable was fundamental! But, then, today, what is the state of art? The pandemic crisis has not yet ended, we are facing a profound economic crisis of dimensions that are not yet properly evaluated and we now have a political crisis. In view of the scale of the challenges facing the country, it was absolutely essential that we have a government capable of meeting its responsibilities. But, as we've seen, we don't. The Prime Minister, and Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, is the great one responsible for this political crisis—even though he has arrived, Prime Minister, because he has already allowed me to talk to you: he has created a management that only existed with the sole aim of undoing what the Socialist Party had brought us with the Memorandum of the Troika; he has created a model of governance in which the Budgets are negotiated on line and subordinate to the demands of the partners of the extreme left. With the economic crisis caused by the pandemic and when it was necessary to do and not destroy what was done, the protagonists are doing everything to get out of the scene. The country is witnessing a negotiation where the only priority of each of the management parties is to see how they come out of a film or, perhaps, a nightmare, that helped produce and realize. When Portugal and the Portuguese should be placed at the top of the priorities, they are focused on themselves, in a representation of the film Geringonça that should shame the protagonists. “Get me out of this movie! », it is the expression that has been in their minds at intervals of this realization. And yesterday, they announced, with mutual accusations, that we have seen today too, that they would leave the scene! In fact, this solution, which has never been a good solution for Portugal and the Portuguese, is over. And it ended because there is a great irresponsibility of Mr. Prime Minister, the Socialist Party and the partners of the extreme left! I repeat: the moment we live has a name: irresponsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u253	In fact, the proposal for a State Budget submitted by the Government in the Assembly of the Republic is a sister of six more budgets approved by the Socialist Party, with the more or less enthusiastic support of the partners of the extreme left. This seventh Socialist Government Budget is a Continuity Budget, which completely forgets the need to recover the country and promote growth. We are facing a model of navigation in sight, a budget without direction, without vision, no strategy, no future! This budget was obliged to be a beacon for an effective recovery of our economy. But it is not, unfortunately, because the government's option is to ignore the real problems of the country and the policies of recovery and growth. Lack of productivity policies, lack of competitiveness policies. Portugal has gradually been losing productivity vis-à-vis the European Union average, as we have seen today, and this is dramatic for the future of the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget was obliged to be very different. It was demanded that trust be transmitted in a time of doubt, that the initiative be stimulated in a time of discouragement and fatigue, that growth be promoted in a time of retreat, that it bet on a course and strategy, in a time of disorientation! Unfortunately, the government, which is conditioned by its own incapacity, has always been captured by its far-left partners and presents a budget proposal that does not meet the challenges of growth. The perhaps most scandalous example of tax burden growth in recent years is that the tax revenue of oil products tax, expected for 2022, is more than EUR 1265 million compared to 2015. I repeat: more EUR 1265 million! And it is the Portuguese who support this increase in government tax revenue, with the government always announcing the end of austerity. In the face of an energy crisis with gross dimensions, the government has gone to the side and play with the Portuguese, denying reality or creating solutions that demonstrate the lack of understanding about the daily life of the Portuguese. Another example is the Government's option to inject more EUR 990 million into TAP in 2022, after having already injected EUR 998 million this year and EUR 1, 2 billion last year. Cash from taxpayers who no one knows if they will not literally stay « flying», if the company cannot survive. It is only to inject money without the government being able to guarantee the viability of TAP! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, this budget proposal for 2022 continues to ignore Portuguese companies clearly. Ideological prejudice? Need to negotiate on the left, which aren't even working? In fact, once again, the economy is absent from the State Budget, and this lack of public policies undermines the creation of wealth and the creation of more and better employment. For the Government of the Socialist Party and its partners on the left, the country must be condemned to poverty and increasingly diverging from our European partners. In fact, they do not value the importance of companies that create wealth, create jobs, export, but bear a brutal tax burden every day. It is unanimous the criticism of a total lack of support directed at companies towards the economic recovery of the country. The Government supports economic recovery in the Recovery and Resilience Plan with a total dependence on its implementation. The problem is that we are well aware of the inability that the government has shown to do. Perhaps the Government does not know the word 'to do' and prefers the verbs 'to foresee' and 'to captivate', and this is also one of the risks of this budget proposal. Moreover, at a time when energy, fuel and raw materials costs continue to rise uncontrollably; at a time when sectors most affected by the crisis desperately struggle for survival, when the country needs public policies for economic recovery to re-enter our economic and business fabric, what does the government do? Practically nothing! [[PSD applause.]] It launches half a dozen measures without scope or impact on the economy and maintains a truly suffocating fiscal pressure on companies. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are too many signs that the State budget for 2022 is going in the wrong direction and in a path that transforms the objective of European convergence into an increasingly unattainable place. Every year, there is a country that goes beyond us, leaving Portugal closer and closer to the tail of Europe. The Portuguese cannot comply with this state of affairs, with a country constantly postponed and condemned to impoverishment. It doesn't have to be fatal! It's not a fatality! Only with a profound change in policies can we reverse this socialist path. Six or seven State budgets later, the Portuguese continue to be the most tax-paying people in Europe, still have the lowest salaries, the public services with increasing degradation and the risk of poverty and social exclusion continues to be alarmingly high, reaching about two million people. at a time when Europe starts the debate on the new rules of economic governance for the post-pandamy period, it is hard to imagine a worse position for Portugal in two indicators: we are, among the 27, the country with the lowest public investment. In view of the expected growth, the Public Finance Council also states that there is a « risk in this budget associated with the implementation of the RPP », as I mentioned earlier. It also adds that Portugal, according to the latest Eurostat data for 2020, has the third largest public debt. I remember, for those with selective memory — what is always happening right now, as we have already seen in this debate! — that the public debt stock was around EUR 230 billion in 2015 and will be EUR 290 billion at the end of 2022. More EUR 60 billion! I repeat: more EUR 60 billion! It is time for the government to realize that it does not help to expect different results doing things always in the same way. As we have already seen in this debate, this is not the best way for the government to move forward, but that is how it does. In the face of this whole scenario, the Government still manages to treat social dialogue badly and to pass legislation without listening to the social partners, which has already led the Prime Minister to apologize publicly. Mr. Prime Minister, this attitude of the government is inexcusable and reveals the disorientation of a tired and unsolved government! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The way forward was a choice by Mr. Prime Minister and the Socialist Party and the result is in sight: six years of erratic governance; the country is walking to an accelerated impoverishment; a country drowned in taxes! But you can be sure, Prime Minister, that this deep irresponsibility we are witnessing—and we will know whether or not we have a 2022 budget tomorrow—is your responsibility and your extreme-left partners! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For PSD, this Budget does not meet the country's recovery needs. It's once again a missed opportunity. It is a bad budget for Portugal and for Portuguese, it is a budget that obviously counts with the vote against the Social Democratic Party. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the PSD is where it has always been: as a clear alternative to the path followed by the Socialist Party with its extreme-left partners and with Portugal and the Portuguese always, even always! , above individual or party interests. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u254	Mrs. Members, the Bureau records the registration of three Members. Members to request clarification and Mr Afonso Oliveira informed that he wishes to respond together. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the right has a matter of relevance in this debate. It is not because he is deciding his leadership in the various parties represented here, but because this dispute is about a plot that is a real one — to take the expression of Mr Telmo Correia — « haunted house». It is to know if it is already in a state of moderation enough that party that defends the specific confinement of the Gypsy community or the chemical castration and the death penalty, is to know whether it is already mature enough to be a credible partner of a government project. When it is not in these plots, the right is dedicated to two main topics: licking the wounds of the failure of private health during the pandemic and the discredit in which the project of privatization of health in Portugal fell and discussing when it is that TAP falls into the hands of Lufthansa, which is the project that feeds and whose propaganda here repeatedly makes every week. But when you try to get out of this haunted house, this 'fantom train' — again using an expression from Mr Telmo Correia — what does the right bring us? Bring us the usual. Who heard the initial intervention by Mr Rui Rio realized that his centre was that, when there is a budgetary strike, if there is a break in debt service, if there are more dividends from Banco de Portugal, besides us, who will still spend this money on social benefits, public services and to "give everything to everyone" as the right one likes to say! Of course it can't be for everyone, it has to be just for some! Oh, my God! Therefore, the question, Mr Afonso Oliveira, is what the Democratic Social Party intends to present to the country, when it lives in permanence in these programmatic obsessions of the privatization of health, of the sale of TAP to the Germans, and how it intends, in this Budget, to clarify the position of its party. It is that, after all, it has not yet been realised whether the PSD criticism is that this Budget has more social expenditure or if it has less social expenditure. The criticism is that this budget has tax benefits, either for false incentives to innovation, or for foreign reformers, for example, Swedish, who are entitled to a tax haven in Portugal? Are there tax benefits to more or are there tax benefits to less? Oh, my God! The fact that walking towards the end of the first day of this debate has not yet been able to perceive in the PSD discourse things as simple as these only shows that the PSD cannot get rid of its ghosts, as Mr. Telmo Correia would say. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u256	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u257	I begin by saying that I fully review Mr Jorge Costa's speech. [[PSD laughter.]] So I hope that tomorrow will be consistent with the intervention you just made. But returning to Mr Afonso Oliveira's intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u258	Mr President, I am sorry, but first of all you have to address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u259	My immense apologies to Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the other members of this Government, to the Members of the Government. Members and Members of this Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u260	You are sorry, Mr, but it is our Rules of Procedure that you refer to.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u261	It was the emotion of Mr. Jorge Costa's intervention that led me to commit such... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Afonso Oliveira told us about responsibility, economic crisis and social crisis. Mr President, what is missing, what has been lacking in this country is not responsible for the government ; it is a responsible opposition. That's what we haven't had in these six years. That, yes, is a lack that the country has noticed. But the honourable Member spoke in nightmares. I remember what took place between 2011 and 2015. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u262	That one, yeah! Me and the Portuguese remind us of that nightmare! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member once again spoke of that usual business narrative. Before I go to this issue, I will spare you a difficulty, which is to explain the contradictions of your leader with regard to wages, because it is both against the minimum wage, and today we have heard him stifling by the increase in wages. That's a question I don't ask you. I leave you this contradiction. I know that it would be difficult, therefore, to save him from the answer on this matter. But with regard to the so-called tax burden, which you once again mentioned, and your love for IRC, I want to remind you of something. Today I have also seen numbers comparing the effective rate of IRC at the time of the Government of its party between 2011 and 2015 with the numbers of the effective rate of IRC at the time of the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the left, between 2016 and 2019. Do you know the result? The effective rate of IRC in the Government of the Socialist Party is lower than that you have practiced! « Well prays Frei Tomás », but this is it, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we are still talking about that phantom that, with the left, there is no private investment, then I invite you to go see the numbers, for example, that are in PORDATA (Contemporary Portugal Database), of private investment between 2011 and 2015 and private investment numbers between 2016 and 2019. Again, you will see that entrepreneurs do not follow the PSD cartridge and invest in Portugal, unlike the PSD, which says badly of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr President, with regard to pensions, you know that this State budget — although you have not heard it speak to a single extent of the State budget, but ready! — provides for an increase in extraordinary pensions by €10, assuming, in fact, now this commitment to pensions up to €1097, from January onwards. I understand that you are not sensitive to this. In fact, the Rabbit Pass was not, when he wanted to cut 600 million euros into pensions. And you know what he called him? He didn't speak in court. He said it was a great contribution to the sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Everyone has their love and their way of defending social security, but this was the position of the PSD at the time. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u263	I also tell you, with all sincerity, and this is not just for you: I understand that you, PSD, do not agree with the increase in pensions. I understand that. I have some difficulty—and I think the Portuguese too—to understand that they do not agree with this measure on the left. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u264	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u265	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I have listened very carefully to say that this State budget is a huge irresponsibility for left-wing parties. It was not, in fact, the first time that the honourable Member made this accusation, or judgment, in public. But, Mr Afonso Oliveira, then the honourable Member and his bench have, in recent years, been accusing the Socialist Party's partners, in fact, of being responsible for making the various budgets of the state of the PS Government viable and now saying that it is irresponsible to vote against this budget. Mr. Deputies, it doesn't seem to be all right. « It is paid for having a dog and not having.» Mr President, where are we, after all? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u266	Mr Afonso Oliveira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u267	Mr President, first of all I thank the questions put by Mr Jorge Costa, Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr Fernando Anastácio. I was deeply moved, I must say, from now on, with this friend of Mr Fernando Anastácio regarding Mr Jorge Costa's intervention. In fact, the intervention has several components, but I realized that there's a boyfriend, a little late, I have to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u268	It's passion!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u269	The divorce happened yesterday, and today, she's trying to date. I think a little late. Let's see! Mr Jorge Costa, you should come to Parliament, before the Portuguese, to explain why you have this attitude towards the Budget, towards the country. Why have they been in management so far, last year they decided to divorce themselves from management and this year they are again voting against this process? The obligation to have a State budget is no doubt incumbent on the government, but you were in this solution and have now decided to leave. Tell the Portuguese! I assure you one thing, or at least my perception is that — I have no pride in saying that I know something about it, but at least I have this perception: the Portuguese will not understand your position, they will not understand the position of the Socialist Party, nor that of the CFP. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] So there's something you have to explain to the Portuguese. That's fundamental. Now, before replying to Mr Fernando Anastácio, I would like to tell Mr Jorge Costa that our model of society, let us say, our model for the country has nothing to do with the one of the Left Block. We know that. We want a developed country, integrated in the European Union, where growth is the fundamental basis for creating wealth, because by creating wealth, jobs are created. All of these are factors that you fully devalue. On the other hand, if you notice, the last days were days of negotiation, of supply by the Government of various measures, in which neither one of you turns out, or did not come to what they wanted. So we do not understand, nor do any Portuguese understand, what is at stake, nor what is the final version of the State Budget. No one understands. But also, if it's down tomorrow, we'll see. Mr Fernando Anastácio, I find your question extraordinary. The Socialist Party made an agreement with the PSD and the CDS in which we were called upon to deal with the problems that the PS created in 2011... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u270	In fact, you forgot to mention it—it always forgets, it is an unbelievable thing and it compels me to do something that I don't like to do, but I have to say—that José Socrates, in 2011, brought the memorandum... [[PS protests.]] I'm sorry, you pull me out and make me say this. As I was saying, José Socrates in 2011 brought the memorandum that forced the government to save the country,... [[PS protests.]] Calm down! Take it easy! ... but there was an agreement made with the Socialist Party, which you broke up next, in relation to the IRC. There was a policy to follow, of gradual reduction of IRC, and the Socialist Party, after the internal elections, decided to break that agreement. This is not a way to be in public life, but the choice is yours! Now, you have to explain to the country what you have done all these years. They have to explain to the country why they have a management solution that doesn't work. They have to explain to the country why the country is impoverishing rather than approaching Europe. This is fundamental, this is reality. It is not worth picking up on charts that show precisely the opposite. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u271	We now move on to an intervention by the Socialist Party. To that end, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u272	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2015, when we started this journey, we found a country devastated by austerity policies, by the experimentalism of those who believed it was cutting and impoverishing that we managed to regenerate ourselves, purify ourselves, punishing the Portuguese with a program that had both ideological and moral. They failed, but their consequences were well felt by the country. The Portuguese know and do not forget the time of the State budgets with retreats and not advances, when the Portuguese always tremble when the Minister of Finance marked a press conference, when the State budgets had cuts in wages, which wanted to make permanent, cuts in pensions, huge increases in taxes, cuts in Christmas allowance, cuts in holiday allowance, freezing, cuts in holidays, cuts in social benefits, privatization, weakening of the State, always resulting in an increase in unemployment, an increase in poverty, an increase in despair and an economy linked to machines. It was so, Budgeting behind Budget, corrective behind rectification, always with the same result: retreats, failures, impoverishment. The Portuguese know and don't forget. In 2015, we started a turn, in a political alternative led by the Socialist Party, an economic, social and political alternative, with an understanding, then and now, majority, in the Assembly of the Republic, which demonstrated the virtues of an alternative direction. It is now impossible to list all the advances achieved, but the Portuguese know and do not forget: solidarity, rather than austerity; widespread increase in pensions and wages; replacement of income, careers and rights; increase in social benefits; creation of new benefits; reversal of privatizations and other measures to dismantle the social state, carried out on the right; changes in labour legislation; limitation of temporary work; combating forced labour; increase in national minimum wage; new law for the transmission of establishment or enterprise; improvement of long-term careers; strengthening of the Labour Conditions Authority; end of the individual hour bank; regularization of thousands, thousands and thousands of precarious jobs in the Public Administration; improvement and investment in the National Health Service; public investment; improvement of public school; improvement of public transport; recovery of the economy; historical fall in unemployment; growth above the European average, therefore, convergence; accurate accounts. This has been important in Portugal and now in Europe as well, showing that an alternative model was possible with the orthodox and, in fact, with greater economic, political and employment success. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are many measures to measure the success of this formula, but I leave an emblematic one: in six years, the percentage of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion in Portugal fell from 26, 4 % to 20 %. In just six years, one in four people at risk of poverty left this condition, even in the pandemic year. That is why we govern, that is why we legislate, to improve people's lives. And if Dr. Rui Rio here today, at the beginning of this debate, questioned what were the improvements for the country, as he asks each of these people who have left poverty and know the difference that a government led by the Socialist Party makes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese know and don't forget. Then came the pandemic of the century, the greatest social and economic crisis we have ever lived. Fear, confinement, paralysis of the economy, possible devastation of the economy and society. Possible but not. Why? Because he was leading the Socialist Party, because the PS was in government. This was not because we defend the social state and public policies to combat the pandemic with solidarity, as a community, as a society in which the problems of each one are the problems of all, not as individuals isolated and disconnected. It was with this spirit that we worked and it was with that spirit that we won the pandemic in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is how we preserved jobs and, unlike the response from the right to the previous crisis, we managed to do so by recovering the levels of unemployment that we had before pre-pandemic levels. And for this it was also necessary budgetary options, it was necessary to finance, it needed budget allocation of social security, which grew EUR 5, 2 billion between 2015 and last year — EUR 5, EUR 2 billion, I repeat. The Portuguese know and don't forget. But we didn't stay here. With the success of vaccination, with the effort of everyone, with the effort of society, we were able to turn the pandemic page and start an economic recovery process in a context of still enormous uncertainty, difficulties and weaknesses. We want to move forward firmly and not take a single step back. Why? Because the State budget has always been a political instrument and not a mere accounting instrument. To debate the State budget, as we do here, is to talk to people, to talk about people, to the future that we want to build collectively. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we look at this State budget and see a good future for people, we see a good future for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We see a State budget for 2022, which has the highest social investment ever, is more than EUR 7 billion compared to 2015 ; the highest investment of always in family social benefits; the progressive gratuity of daycare for all children of all stages; the National Strategy for Combating Poverty 2021 - 2030 and guarantee for childhood which is created for the first time; the extraordinary updating of pensions; the regular updating of all pensions; the increase of €40 of the national minimum wage, the greatest ever increase and which consolidates an increase of 40% since 2015 ; the increase in social benefits; the highest ever value for training and employment policies; the strengthening of responses to people with disabilities; the investment support measures; the IRS Youth extended to five years; two new steps of IRS; the valorization of public administration workers; the strengthening of public services; the end of the moderate rates of all care of the National Service, except in emergencies; the conjugation of work status with all this, the professional status of work agent, the professional status of work. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese look and don't forget! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is obvious — and I conclude — that in the context of a negotiation, and in particular in a budgetary negotiation, we have never achieved everything. No one ever gets everything, no party gets everything. Negotiating is the same, especially when we talk about budgetary options that have alternative uses. What is clear is that this is a budget of progress, which deserves approval so that we can continue with these advances, with the advances that are at the heart of this debate, assuming the balance between economic recovery and social protection. There's no reason to dig trenches where we used to build bridges. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is still time for us to be up to our responsibilities. There is road to walk and there is road to pavement. We have one day and we are available until the last moment. Let no one miss the call of that moment, because the Portuguese... [[PS laughter.]] ... he said, the Portuguese, the Portuguese know, they don't forget — surely the Portuguese too — and they won't forgive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u273	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u274	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, there is a problem here in the political debate to which some have called historical archaeology: it is that you only start telling the history of Portuguese politics in 2011 and forget what happened until 2011. We have to have a revisionism here. The history of humanity has before Christ and after Christ and it is very important that we know what happened before Christ, otherwise we do not know the ancient Egypt, nor Rome, at last we do not know things that are important to our formation. But it should not be forgotten that what Mr. Fernando Anastácio here called a nightmare of 2011 - 2015 is preceded by what, yes, is the real nightmare of 2005 - 2011, which brought us where we are still today. [[PSD applause.]] I repeat, that brought us where we are still today! That's why, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party, I wanted to say that there is seed and harvest, as it is said in my land—and in all the lands where there is cultivation—and therefore the PS is reaping what it has sown, I repeat, is reaping what it has sown. The PS has sown a counternature solution, which was intended not to govern but only to maintain power. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u275	The PS has found a solution that, in addition to being contranature, exposes the political hypocrisy of this government solution. And I say why. Political hypocrisy, firstly, by ideological transmutation, but then also—and then I come back there—because it is based on an anti-trogic pact when, first, it was the Socialist Party that put the country in a position to have financial assistance and, secondly, it was the Socialist Party that signed the Memorandum of Understanding that is fighting. [[PSD applause.]] This is the reality! It was the PS who signed it and put others to it. And signed as Government of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question to the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party's bench is: what is the price of stability? Appeals are no longer for the country to have a good budget. And, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, the Budget is not a financial instrument,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u276	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u277	... is an instrument of political and economic vision, not financial; this is a report and accounts. As I said earlier, we don't even want a good budget anymore, we just want any budget, even if it's a blanket of cuts. And that is why the question that the Socialist Party has to answer is that it is the country that needs, if it needs a budget that has a direction, even if we disagree on that direction—but that it has a clear direction—or if it needs a set of unfamiliar claims, which make this a blanket of flaps that does not take advantage of anyone, especially the country and the Portuguese. The fact is that the Government did not want to agree on this legislation, Mr President of the Republic did not demand it, and we cannot be surprised at what has happened in the meantime. Or did the PS expect the Bloc and the PCP to be merely critical attachments of your mandate, which exercise as if they had an absolute majority when they actually do not have? This is the political balance that you wanted, you cannot complain about its consequences, because they are — indeed, they were — quite predictable. And now I want to tell you this, too, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, and of course Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro : what remains for Portugal of this balance in progress? What is left for Portugal has already been said several times: it is the shameful number of 20 % of the population in poverty. Does the honourable Member say that the Portuguese who have left poverty have to thank us when we have 20 % of the population in poverty? Oh, my God! But do we — we plural majestic — not have any shame in this number? Oh, my God! Can we still have the rhetoric we have here with a number of this nature? Oh, my God! More: occupy the last places of European competitiveness and lose places, year after year, for our fellow citizens of the European Union, but occupy the first places, yes, in the prices of energy, gas and gasoline, which are factors of competitiveness for our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u278	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u279	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the legacy that this government leaves to the country, leading the country to a dead end. And the problem is that the victims of this balancing process are always the same, they are the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u280	You have the floor to answer, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u281	Mr President, Mr André Coelho Lima, he had already brought up an intervention and talked about so much, but he spoke a little bit about what I actually said here. [[All right.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u282	On archaeology or little archaeology, the Socialist Party is very proud throughout its history since it was founded to combat dictatorship, in strengthening the social state in Portugal, in the creation of the National Health Service, in public school, in social benefits, in economic development, in the European option. The Socialist Party is very proud of everything you've done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But you know what the Socialist Party didn't do? The Socialist Party did not make a program for itself, to go beyond the troika, as you did,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... when the 2015 Stability and Growth Plan entered a permanent cut of EUR 600 million in the paid pensions presented by Mrs Cecilia Meireles. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is true! This is true, as you know, and there was no troika. In fact, today we just didn't... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I know you don't like to hear, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you don't like to hear, but this is really the whole story! This is the whole story and you have to listen to it. You have to listen! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u283	Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, just wait a minute. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how you listen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u284	You're nervous, that's a good sign. I repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u285	You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u286	I repeat: you entered in the Stability and Growth Plan that presented Brussels in 2015 a cut in pensions paid by the Portuguese of 600 million euros because they believed in that cut because they wanted to cut the pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And they did more. They wanted, as all Portuguese know, to rise the TSU (the single social rate) paid by the workers, in fact making an amendment in our system without going through social consultation — the great advocates of social dialogue! — and only retreated because there were millions of Portuguese who went to the streets saying that not then the PSD government / CDS,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u287	... that wanted to increase the TSU for workers, cut pensions, cut income, cut wages, which then designated as permanent cuts. And you know why they're not permanent cuts? They are not permanent cuts because the Socialist Party has ruled since 2015, reversing the cuts that you have made to the Portuguese incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But on child poverty, honourable Member, how dare you come here to talk about poverty and child poverty when poverty and child poverty have increased in this country when you cut the RSI (social income) of 26,000 people, especially children, increasing poverty among children? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] How is it that you have the courage to come here to talk about poverty when you have increased poverty among the elderly, not only by cutting pensions but by cutting off the solidarity supplement for the elderly, with an ideological view of income compression, compression of social benefits, internal devaluation? Oh, my God! You did all this and much more. Now I have no more time, but I will be happy to discuss this with you. You have no moral to talk about social support for the Portuguese, after the way they ruled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u288	For an intervention by the Left Block bench, Mr Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u289	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2015 I participated in the negotiations that led to a remarkable agreement that stabilized the country from a project of immediate recovery of the economic and social crisis left by the right. Well, you know it wasn't easy. The Block accepted commitments on behalf of measures that the Socialist Party did not have in its programme, such as defrosting pensions, changes to the IRC, the social energy tariff, without talking about the pace of recovery of income. Like today, the European Commission's voices to the Portuguese right were not missing, passing through television shows, ensuring that the left-wing measures were irresponsible and costly. at that time, to be a government, the PS did not chorus with the sceptics, and thus the result was more employment and more justice for those who suffered so much at the hands of the PSD / CDS government. The result of these years of governance was all that Mr Barbosa Ribeiro mentioned here. We know, Mr President, that we voted in favour of these budgets and with pride. With the end of the legislature we know by way of management, the situation changed, the PS refused a written agreement with the Block after the 2019 elections, made no way for understandings on essential matters, such as labour law, and now refuses the concrete solutions that the Block brought the negotiation. And I am obliged to correct you again, Prime Minister: the end of the contract, whether right or wrong, is not a dismissal. The dismissal is for effective workers, with years of service, such as Santander or Altice, weakened by the law of the troika that the government insists on keeping in force. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So we come here with a problem, which is the lack of credibility of the Budget and the insufficiency of its solutions. Year after year, we confront ourselves with money that is not executed. In public accounts, it is less EUR 923 million in current expenditure, less EUR 800 million in capital expenditure, less EUR 100 million in staff, i.e. the proposed deficit has a strike of EUR 1200 million. We know what Minister João León will say. He will say that the budgeted funds are merely indicative and that they do not have to be implemented. But then, if everything does not go through a mere exercise and if the numbers are useless to verify commitments, why does the government resort to these same values to advertise the budgetary reinforcement of the most varied appropriations in the Budget? « We insist on certain accounts because they are a commitment to the country », says the Government. So, see the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, which is once again envisaged for the third consecutive year, with EUR 30 million in the Budget. Despite the agreement with the Block, the implementation of this measure was 1 % by 2020 and 2 % by June 2021. That is why certain accounts are responding to those who take care of their own and the government has failed. In health, there are investment funds that go through budgets, without ever leaving the paper, such as the cases of the hospitals of Seixal, Setúbal and Évora. For the Eastern Lisbon Hospital, the Government even promises EUR 10 million in equipment in 2021 when the work has not yet been awarded. We do not ignore other health measures, but we do not know how much of the money announced is that it will be used to invest in the structural conditions of the SNS or will be channeled to the private. In 2020, the State spent EUR 130 million on external contracts in so-called « jobs », and EUR 334 million on the payment of extraordinary hours. However, there is no statement in the State budget for the announced full dedication regime and much less for an exclusivity regime, which can end the promiscuity between the public and the private and retain and motivate health professionals. In the face of the shortage of doctors and nurses, in the face of half-empty competitions, the government increases the workload for workers who already exist in the SNS. Thus, the increase in working hours is expected to be 25 %, from 250 overtime and 50 %, from 500 overtime, and the legal limit of overtime hours for doctors is 200 hours. In taxes, the government's choice was not the electricity tax, which is charged on indirect taxes and on the family purse, it was indeed the IRS. However, the reform of the IRS represents less than the isolated measure of the steps and is more unfair than the isolated measure of the steps approved in 2018. And this while the government insists on maintaining the tax benefit to non-standard residents, who only in 2020 had a expenditure of EUR 770 million. True stories, Prime Minister! ... But one day, if you are patient, you will explain to me why Swedish pensioners should pay less taxes than pensioners here have worked their entire lives and have such low pensions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] When it comes to the inclusion of short-term securities, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a reason nobody's talking about him. It is that the extent to which the Government has pretended to dialogue on the left does not pass a symbol without any practical effect. Certain accounts: the encumbrance of nothing, gives nothing! We do not ignore the measures that consolidate previous advances, particularly in pensions and family allowances. We agree with these measures and we like to say it. But we note that the Government has promised a new approach to combating poverty and has already presented limited and dispersed measures. Why does the Government insist on maintaining the current structure of social support that each child has for half? Are these true stories? Oh, my God! How can one maintain this rule, in which each child counts half, and at the same time say that one wants to make combating child poverty a priority? I also ask why perpetual law should be the absurd cuts introduced by the PSD by the CDS, in fact, against the logic of PS, in pension systems. Certain accounts, Prime Minister, would be to return to the commitments of ministers who have taken the future and the stability of social security as a basis for dialogue on the left and for concrete decisions. Mrs. Members, noting what is returned by public officials in taxes and social security, the increase of 0, 9 % of the public service is worth EUR 128 million, a little more than EDP has stopped paying for stamp taxes in the extraordinary dam business. After a decade of freezing, is this what the government presents to thousands of people who maintain the country's public services? Oh, my God! Certain accounts would be to charge taxes on the business of dams and compensate workers and pensioners above inflation, without cutting their incomes again. With regard to what we have done in the previous Parliament, and above all in respect of our people, we have an obligation to respond to the structural problems of the country with much more than promises, symbolic or circumstantial measures. Well, I know right-hand benches do a morbid exercise here about management. The children of the country's poverty policy miss power. But the country looks at these benches and what you see are gangs that are stuffed about castration and the death penalty, about how to punish the gypsies for being gypsies... [[PSD protests.]] ... about how to deliver public hospitals to Mello and Fosun, about how to launch millions of euros for incompetence. The country sees the picture of social revenge that the right wants to impose on Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u290	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u291	From this side of Parliament, the country sees divergences—and it is true that they are serious—that prevent, now, a commitment in this Budget but anticipate the discussion that will determine the future: the change of rules that determine the value of wages and pensions, that protect public services, starting with the SNS, and that structurally combat poverty, inequalities and climate change. These are the objectives for which we have an obligation to fight in the time of our lives. And that time is now! That's our mandate now! The Government can say that this is its budget, that these are its priorities and its measures and that it does not wish to accept the proposals put forward by the Block. And it's legitimate for you to do it. But with the same legitimacy, we state that this budget does not translate a negotiation to the left and does not solve the problems facing the country. on this first day of debate, we are available, I repeat, to enable a Budget that integrates reasonable commitments that are stable solutions, but do not ask us to abdicate these solutions. They do not ask us to live well with the eternalization of the troika in wages and pensions, do not ask us to leave these debates for another moment, because we well know that, at all other times, especially in the discussion of work, the PS almost always voted with the right or dragged unsolved processes. It is in the annual negotiation of the budget vote that the Government creates the conditions for the parliamentary support it wants. Yes, create these conditions at work, in pensions and in health and you will have a Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u292	Mr Luís Moreira Testa. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u293	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the document to which the honourable Member referred as the basis of an agreement to be reached with the Government will probably be this sheet A4, which I present in this Chamber — and if the honourable Member does not have a copy, I will be happy to distribute it. It is that this memorandum — this is how it is treated — indicates as previous assumptions a set of assumptions without which it will be impossible to reach agreement. Of course, the method is strange, it is not rigorous and, indeed, it is not loyal to negotiating partners. However, by passing this detail — let us see what the famous nine proposals of the Left Block correspond to. Well, as far as contracting autonomy is concerned, the government has taken steps forward and has come closer to the position of the Left Block. With regard to the full dedication regime, the Government has taken steps forward and has come closer to the position of the Left Block. [[BE's laughs.]] As for the career for health assistants, the government took steps forward and approached the position of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to redundancy compensation, the Government took steps forward and approached the position of the Left Block. With regard to extraordinary hours, the Government took steps forward and approached the position of the Left Block. And I could continue here to repeat eternally those that are the nine positions of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But where is the goodwill of the Left Block to approach the positions of the Government and the positions of the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! However, let us do, with regard to this approach, the same as we did with regard to that memorandum which they called 'proposals for an agreement'. This budget brings news. As for the IRS, it brings a wager above EUR 230 million of returns to families and to Portuguese. As for family allowance, it brings a wager of more than 70 million euros in the return of income to Portuguese. As for the national minimum wage, it will rise to €705 next year and up to €2025, to €850. This budget also provides a strengthening of the SNS, the second largest ever, of more than 700 million euros, and a strengthening of pensions, covering 2, 3 million Portuguese. Do you not agree with these measures taken in the State budget? Of course they will. They certainly understand the government's negotiating effort to bring your proposals closer together. They may say that they are insufficient, but in a negotiating process there is no full advantage of any of the negotiators, we all need to give in to agreement. That's what puts us, like VV. Ex. What the Left Block states in this beginning of budgetary debate is just as follows: in the face of an insufficient budget, in your judgment, the alternative is that there is no budget. This is your judgment, but we cannot agree with this, because if we go along the path we are going to today, it will also be possible to go further. It is that the alternative to an insufficient budget—in your judgment—is to improve that budget. And in order to do so, the Budget cannot be extinguished tomorrow, it has to go through the process of specialty, which is done only with your vote and with our support for these measures, which are also a common process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u294	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u295	Mr President, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa, one thing is certain: he has a document from the Left Block because that is how the Left Block negotiates, with public documents, with concrete measures, which can be scrutinized at any time. That now gives me the advantage of being able to explain these measures and also of dismounting the alleged advances that the government has made, and I think it will be very clear that nature has these advances. As for the career for health assistant technicians, despite the fact that there is here a process, in the field of specialty, which has already advanced in defining the functional content of this career, the Government points out the definition of this functional content after 2022. With regard to the full dedication scheme, there is no exclusivity of doctors, which is more paid for more hours than doctors in public service, which continue to be able to accumulate in private and continue to be able to work in private. As for dismissal compensation, I have just explained in my speech that what was proposed by the Government is not dismissal compensation; it is a measure for the end of contracts without termination, but it is not dismissal compensation. You can't explain to me why you've been against the advance of the right in front of the troika and, now, you can't go there,... [[PS protests.]] He can't approve of what he defended in his own time. As for overtime, the Block wanted to replace the payment for overtime up to 150 hours. What does the government do? It proposes from 120 hours and, with the first 120 hours, agrees, between 120 and 150 hours, at the bottom, there is finally a replacement and says that this is to comply with the proposal that the Left Block has made. As for the Block's proposal on vacations, nothing! As for the sustainability factor, nothing! In fact, it rejects the principle of double penalty, defended by the Minister of Labour and Social Security of the Socialist Party in the previous legislation. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is this advantage: the Socialist Party knows the proposals of the Left Block, they are written. The Government knows the proposals of the Left Block, the country knows the proposals of the Left Block. What we have not been able to understand and the Socialist Party has not been able to explain is why we refuse them. Why do you refuse measures that are fair, concrete and enforceable?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u296	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u297	I would like you to tell me which of these measures — the replacement of extraordinary hours, exclusivity, holidays or dismissal compensation, which the PS has already defended — is worth the political crisis that the PS wants to provoke. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u298	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the PCP bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u299	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The overall response to national problems, to the problems that weigh on the lives of workers and the people cannot be postponed. For the CFP, the question that has always been raised was whether this Budget and the framework of political options in which it opens, or not, prospects for overcoming these problems. This has always been, and will continue to be, the meaning of the CFP's intervention. Today's demand is to make the options that come true and point out this perspective of global response to national problems, problems that the Government is responding to, not because of lack of resources, but because of political options contrary to the needs of workers and the people. Yes, there are resources to give that answer and, if there were political will of the government, it could be given. Today, when problems develop, even though there are ways of responding to them, the Government insists on refusing to build solutions that, within and outside the Budget, would allow the country's overall response. The country needs the overall increase in wages and the PCP has proposed solutions for this. The CFP proposed an increase in the minimum wage that would converge with the amount of €850 in the short term; we presented a proposal for it to be fixed at €755 in January and to reach €800 at the end of the year. Despite the availability of the CFP, the Government remained irreducible in the position it took in March and did not accept, until today, the increase to €705. In labour law, the CFP proposed the revocation of the expiry of the collective contract to protect and increase intermediate wages, the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle and also the increase of salaries in the Public Administration after years of freezing and 11 % loss of purchasing power. The Government rejects these solutions and refuses to make the option of making progress with the valuation of workers and their wages. In SNS, the country needs to hire and fix professionals. The CFP presented solutions to value careers, wages and incentives, contributing to the establishment of professionals in the SNS. The CFP proposed concrete measures for exclusivity, with the increase of 50 % in remuneration and 25 % in the counting of service time for career progression. We have presented concrete solutions for the investment and strengthening of the SNS response capacity. However, when only the Government was asked to ensure that these measures were implemented on 1 January, the response it gave was a promise of regulation in the first quarter of next year. Knowing what the promises of subsequent regulation of measures mean to all of us who, after that, have never arrived or arrived late, mutilated in their extension and limited conditions of application, we agree that it is not with promises of those which can be trusted in a serious commitment by the Government to solutions to defend the SNS from the assault on which the private groups of the disease are making it. The same can be said of the lack of options to strengthen other public services. In public school, in social security, in security forces and services, in justice and in areas such as sport or even culture—which remains closer to zero than 1% of the Budget—we do not find options on the part of the Government that are embedded in the overall response to national problems. The country needs to guarantee the right to housing, which is the great problem of many families, from the younger to the older. The CFP proposed the increase in the construction of public housing, in addition to the change to the law of evictions — the Cristas law — in order to protect the right to housing, blocking the clearance and raising of income. The country also needs to dynamize the economy, national production, from the recovery of public control over strategic sectors and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, it needs measures to counter increases in the price of energy and fuel, which hinder the recovery of the economy. Also in these plans nothing new, only the government's refusal of advanced solutions, assuming a frontal refusal of any measure that confronts the interests of economic groups and real estate speculation. The country needs to guarantee the rights of children and parents, to promote birth, to reverse the demographic breakdown, but also to value pensions and careers. The PCP proposed concrete solutions: free daycare in 2022 and the creation of a public daycare network; an increase of 1, 8 % of pensions, with a minimum of 10 €, in order to also value the pensions of those who have paid a full life; eliminating the cuts in pensions for those who have 40 years of discounts and creating a public home network. The country needs a fairer fiscal policy. The CFP proposed a relief from IRS to lower and intermediate incomes, the reduction of electricity VAT and measures to tax the profits made here in Portugal. All solutions defended by the PCP have their value and it is because it is important that the PCP fights for them. The option made by the Government, however, was to select in isolation some of these solutions, mostly in part, reducing their value and impact by the disarticulated and torn form as it considered them. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the rejection by the Government of the various solutions presented by the CFP, which would allow urgent response to immediate questions, point out signs of a different path in solving national problems and which are part of the overall response that the country needs, is the real problem in this debate of the State budget proposal. By rejecting this comprehensive response to national problems, the Government refuses to give workers, the people and the country a prospect of a future of confidence. The Government cannot expect it to be the CFP to give up fighting for wages and workers' rights, pensions and day care, the SNS and the right to housing, the strengthening of public services and fiscal justice. And you cannot expect it to be the CFP to give up the fight for a global response that integrates the set of solutions you presented in the name of a devaluer treatment of each of your proposals alone. There are solutions to the country's problems and the PCP fights for them. The CFP does not have to fight, in whatever circumstances it is, because of this response that the country needs. The intervention and vote of the CFP will confirm this sense of demand and possibility of an alternative policy of development, of raising living conditions and realization of rights in a more just country. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u300	To request clarification by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u301	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Duarte Alves, on December 5, 1989, Jorge Sampaio said there from the rostrum that « socialists and communists know their differences as no one. They have each other drawn a border that is mutually assumed and are rays. No one knows the borders like the rays." at this historic moment, Jorge Sampaio led a coalition of socialists and communists to the Lisbon Chamber, which was so successful. We are from this school, which does not cover the differences, but unites forces to do what is missing to do on the left, and that is where my questions go. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This document, Balance sheet of Parliamentary Work, XIII Legislation, of the PCP Parliamentary Group, lists the concrete evidence that the previous legislation was, and I quote, « a time to recover and acquire rights and income with numerous advances and achievements ». Although it is assumed not to be exhaustive, it is an extensive list that spreads through three pages.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u302	We know her!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u303	Does today's CFP devalue these gains of rights and income? Then, of course, the document says that we are not going far enough. We all want more, it is true, but will it be reasonable to chum the extraordinary increase of all pensions up to €1097? Are we going to stop the universalization of free day care? Are we going to stop the increase in public investment? These are issues that should concern us, on behalf of the country, and I believe that the CFP is also concerned about this. Mr Duarte Alves, I would specifically like to ask you a question. The CFP always said that it did not mix the State budget with other matters. Even in July, the parliamentary leader of the PCP, who is sitting next to him, said he was neither responsible nor worthy to mix Budget with labour matters, but now has changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u304	That conversation again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u305	The CFP explains its vote against the Leftmost Budget from time to time with various extra-budgetary matters. So, if the idea was to demand a comprehensive agreement, why did the PCP preclude the possibility of written agreements of left-wing legislation, which, even in such a minimal format, had such good results in the previous legislation? Mr Duarte Alves, are there millions of voters from all left-wing parties — PS, Bloco, PCP — who were excited about what we were able to do together in the previous legislature and who are now wondering: won't the PCP take a bad step when it rushed to say that there would be no part left-signed again? Should we not all strengthen our efforts to recover from the social and economic crisis caused by the pandemic so that this recovery is solidarity and progressive? I ask this question very simply because we believe that the CFP is fundamental in this answer. So we'd really like to hear your answer, to know if we're going to be able to continue to discuss the budget in the specialty, to give the answer that the country needs, or if we're going to stay here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u306	To reply, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u307	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions, Mr Porfirio Silva, and, on the question of having a written role, you can speak to Mr Prime Minister, because that was never a problem for him, I do not know if it is a problem for the Socialist Party. For us, too, it was never a problem, because it was not the existence or abandonment of a role that diminished the responsibility of the CFP and its willingness to contribute to solutions. [[PCP applause.]] With regard to the questions raised about the consideration of matters beyond the State budget, I would remind you of what we said in the State budget for 2018: « The concentration at this time of the attention around the State budget does not erase the general evaluation of the policy of the current government, namely the persistent refusal to eliminate the burdensome standards of the Labour Code and the resistance to the value of wages ». This was said about the State Budget for 2018, so the CFP never stopped considering the budget issues in the general framework of the political options taken by the government and the lack of response to them, and that is what we said today in our intervention. What we find in this Government proposal is not a comprehensive response to these problems. Mr Porfirio Silva may refer to a number of subjects which the CFP has been fighting and which we consider important — so we are being beaten for them! — but, in isolation, consideration of other problems which are more global and which require an urgent response is that these progress achieved by the continued CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u308	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u309	Look, when we talk about the increase of €10 in pensions, it is true that this was a measure by which the PCP was beaten and, in fact, we defend that it should reach all pensions. However, what can happen, if no other solutions are found, is that a pensioner may even have an increase of 10 €, but if you get to the health center or hospital and do not have a doctor or nurse there, because there are no measures to fix professionals, you will have to go to private and spend 10 € there. [[PCP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And if you have an increase in income, because there is no measure to end the law of evictions, what will happen is that the pensioner will still spend much more than this 10 €. [[PCP applause.]] That is why we say that this global response to the country's problems is necessary, a response that cannot be limited to one or another measure. So far, the Government has not wanted to give this overall response, which makes the CFP have the evaluation it has on the Budget and what is beyond it. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u310	I now give the floor to Mr Miguel Costa Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u311	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are meeting at a crucial moment in our democratic history. We are recovering from a pandemic that imposed on us the greatest economic recession in 100 years, with heavy social and human repercussions. We're recovering with merit. We are among the countries that have been most vaccinated and, despite the size of the crisis, unemployment has not galloped and is already below its pre-pandamy value. Today, even in the face of adversity like the rising price of fuels, we are a safe country in the recovery that awaits us as we turn around the corner and, at this crucial moment for the progress of our country, we have an unparalleled responsibility to act, choose, continue to advance a socially just and sustainable recovery. The Government shall present to the Assembly of the Republic the proposal for a State budget more to the left than I have in mind. This is important, not because of parliamentary geometry or political tactics, no, it matters because the country needs to grow, because the country grows more when all people participate in growth, when we value work, when we invest in public services, in public school, in the SNS, when we give the young people a future in their country. That is what this budget is all about: ensuring the future. This is because, instead of association contracts, this Budget invests in the recovery of learning in public school. Against those who said we had more licenses, we continued the democratization of higher education, triple — I repeat, triple! — the bags of the masters. Because the cost of housing is often a second tip that prevents many young people from qualifying, dreaming, we will invest 85 million euros in homes, adding to the 318 million euros of public housing and strengthening the Porta 65 - Youth programme. Because at the emergence of low wages, the Government also responds with the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formação Professional) stages, with an increase of the scholarships, with an IRS Young automatic, extended from three to five years, with an increase in the entry salary of senior technicians and with the greatest increase in the national minimum wage, raising the fascia to 850 €, up to 2025. Many who have had to accept the invitation to emigrate will now have more time to return, with half the tax-free income. More: because it is not acceptable for our generation to pay more to have a child in the day care than in higher education, we propose to create 10 000 day care leavers and to make day care free for all children in the next three years, starting, already, in the first year of day care and in the first and second steps of social action. Because the SNS is essential, also for our generation, this Budget enshrines, as many claimed, the autonomy of contracts, the full dedication, but also a reinforcement of 700 million euros, which together with the rest of the Legislation, is only twice as much as we invested together in the previous Legislation. But because there are problems that, in fact, go beyond the horizon of the Budget, we have created a professional status of the artist and also a dignified Work Agenda to exacerbate and penalize precariousness and indecent schedules, giving real power to the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) to prevent impunity in labour laws. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing on this path is new. You knew about this. This is a long road that still has a lot of road to walk. It is a path that gave horizons of hope to my generation and what irritates so many in this country, especially on the right, is that it is a path with results with certain accounts, yes, but much more than that, with convergence, for the first time in this century, with growth for all, more employment, better wages, less precariousness. It is a growth to continue, with innovation, with foreign investment with three times more market share gains in exports. This is our path, a path that has not been exhausted and will not be exhausted while there is injustice and inequality in our country. But there's only a road to walk for anyone who wants to continue. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time for choices. How and with whom are we going to vote tomorrow? Who wins and who loses that vote? Let's move forward, we have time to stop or do we want to risk going back? Will we continue to discuss what the fair increase in the minimum wage and not what holiday and Christmas allowances to cut? Will we continue to discuss how to strengthen public services and not how to cut them or privatize them? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this crucial moment, in view of this unique responsibility, it is time to choose. I am therefore addressing the sides of the PCP, the ENP and the Left Block : with whom do you want to stand tomorrow when you vote on the State budget? For me, and for many of my generation, I answer: I want to stand up with you, to fulfill what we have begun and to approve this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u312	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr Nelson da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : This is a budget whose macroeconomic scenario does not take into account a possible return to confinement and restrictive policies, as previously admitted to the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ). This budget, whose macroeconomic scenario does not include the impact of climate change on the economic level, does not include the energy crisis that afflicts millions of people, nor does it affect them, such as galloping inflation throughout the euro area. This budget, in fact, does not have the eco-label that the NAP so much desires, does not have the social mark that the NAP so much defends and does not have the mark in the fight against corruption that the NAP and Portugal expect. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, without demagogy, without empty words, and no empty rhetoric, the NAP has indeed presented solutions and will continue to present concrete solutions that have a real impact on people's lives, especially on the lives of our young people. We will therefore continue, in this debate, and until the vote on the Budget, to dialogue, to converge and build solutions for an increasingly and better Portugal. We need companies to receive their incentives, to be encouraged, we need public investment to get out of the drawer, out of the state safes and go to the streets. We also need the PRR, despite weakness, in terms of climate transition and energy transition, to make significant progress. And this is an aspect that cannot be ignored in the analysis of this State budget. These are not just the objectives of the NAP, they are the objectives that Portugal needs to achieve. This is capable of being one of the greatest challenges in the recent history of our young democracy, and we, as representatives of democracy, cannot be easily ignored. This is the current political context. I do not want to discuss this budget is to unlock the door to those who want to kill democracy — 46 years of democracy. Let us not forget that anyone who votes against this budget will, in general, leave the door quite unlocked. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The NAP is not afraid to go to the elections, it is not afraid of democracy. If the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens Ecological Party decide in this way to unlock the door to the time of the « other lady », the NAP ensures that it will not allow that right to pass into this Parliament. There we will be to respond to this challenge. [[PAN and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u314	You have the floor for an intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Carneiro. [[Protests of PSD and CH Members and PS Counter-Protests.]] There's a lot of noise in the room, so I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen to turn down the tone, and the sound, please. You have the floor, Mr. José Luís Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u315	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The Government has presented to this Parliament a proposal for a budget based on the values of autonomy, responsibility, progress and social justice. For whom is this budget proposal intended? It serves middle-class families who want to pay less taxes and maintain progress in their quality of life. It serves young people, who await a job contract with fair pay. It serves workers, whose remuneration does not yet cover the costs of living. Serves people who need proximity health services. It serves children and young people, who need to regain learning and in whom families lay their hopes for the future. It serves the entrepreneurs, who want to save their honor as entrepreneurs, who pay the fair wages and who have their biggest allies in the workers. It serves the country's knowledge and innovation centres, which allow us to progress. It serves the professionals of culture, which are an important strain of cohesion, source of creation and forecast of the future. It serves the citizens, who want a country with housing for everyone. It serves citizens, who want quality and affordable public transport. Finally, it serves a quality democracy. As one of the most important instruments of political action, its approval is therefore of the greatest responsibility. The vote against is irresponsible, because it has serious consequences. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is difficult, as today, to recall the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ), the implementation of European funds, weakening the conditions of economic and social recovery. It makes it difficult to combat precarious work, weakens the instruments of combating poverty and inequality and loses the opportunity to carry out a wide reduction in the tax burden for middle classes, families with children and young people at the beginning of their professional activity. The Government and its Prime Minister, António Costa, have shown an irreprehensible culture of democratic humility, dialogue and openness, so it was possible to go beyond the proposal of Budget, extending and densifying matters of a renewed political agenda, such as the creation of the Statute of the National Health Service, the Dignified Work Agenda and the creation of the Statute of the Professionals of Culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the budget proposal has a clear option with an investment, public and private, with an economy based on innovation and knowledge, with the value of wages and income and with social justice. It is therefore based on the most advanced European model of harmony between competitiveness and cohesion. The priorities in public investment are clearly assumed in modernizing, qualifying and valuing administration and public services, particularly in the National Health Service, but also in education, valorization and bet on housing with dignity, transport and mobility. It is also a good budget, because it does not forget the importance of companies and private investment in wealth creation and job creation. It therefore provides EUR 1400 million in support of investment and its capitalisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a good budget because it places on the value of the income available to families, the income that contributes to consumption, which stimulates production, job creation, the decrease in social expenditure and the sustainability of the redistributive functions of the State. It is also a good budget, because it looks at middle classes, families with children and young people. The changes envisaged in the IRS strengthen family income by more than EUR 200 million. It is also important to stress the increase in pensions and the expected increases in public administration. In addition to the Budget, the Government has legislated to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the National Health Service and to combat precariousness and defend labour dignity. The full dedication, the greater autonomy of hospitals and the incentives for the establishment of general and family medicine doctors in the interior are clear evidence of a reformist vision and attentive to the problems of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The same effort is evident in labour matters. The appreciation of collective bargaining, the strengthening of redundancies compensation, the increase in the remuneration of additional work and the strengthening of the working conditions Authority's means show the desire to break and advance on the path of progress and social justice. And what about the efforts to universalize free access to day care centres, to increase national minimum wage, to anticipate the application time and extend the scope of the extraordinary increase in pensions? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget proposal goes much further than the previous ones. It corresponds to the needs of people and to the country's priorities, it is responsible in budgetary terms and, as in 2017, 2018 and 2019, estimates growth above the European average, allowing convergence more than the other countries of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have ambitious but realistic goals to meet in very difficult times. Time, moreover, for pandemics and their economic and social effects, for the steep rise in energy and international transport costs, for the shortage of raw materials and for inflation. These are challenges and demands that we must address, at the very heart of our consciences, the importance of political stability and service to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dear and dear Members, for us, we will continue to fight for our values of always: responsibility, progress and justice. This is what the Socialist Party moves in service to Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing goes beyond our will. The decision is really in our hands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u316	Mr Duarte Pacheco, to whom I give the floor, wrote for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u317	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, your speech will certainly be saved for the antenna times you will make in the election campaign in the coming months. It was a moment of pure and simple propaganda, without any adherence to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u318	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u319	And why, Mr. Deputy? Because you just made propaganda, forgetting that this budget might have been useful for so much, but it is not for the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u320	And that's why it's not for the country that can't have the majority vote in this House, particularly the Social Democratic Party. And you know why? First of all, because it is not a Budget, it is a supermarket list with a set of measures completely torn apart from each other. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u321	Just like that! It's a blanket of flaps!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u322	But it's a supermarket list that's not even for those who go shopping to accomplish, or, in this case, for the government to execute it. It is a list only for English to see or, in this case, for Portuguese to see. What we know is that this supermarket list, which you presented here, is based not on the beautiful and magnificent words you have expressed, but on the behaviour of the Government supported by the Socialist Party over the past six years. It is that promises there are many and may even deceive people for a while, but the time comes when people say: "Stop! Stop it! » And do you know why it is enough? Because, in the ads that are made concerning family doctors, every year it is said « it is now! », but people continue without a family doctor. About the investments in hospitals, you say that they will happen, but they do not happen and the announcements repeat each year to the same hospitals. The computers that were to reach the families are not enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u323	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u324	All this because investments do not take place either in the railway or in other areas. So these are beautiful words, but reality is quite different.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u325	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u326	What you have sold us is illusions. Illusions! And when people wake up they conclude that reality is very different. Well, that's the difference that goes today and tomorrow is clear here for everyone. It is that the Socialist Party has sold illusions, but more and more we are on the tail of Europe and therefore a different policy is needed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u327	To reply, Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u328	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco, of course, and as a result of the words of great responsibility which the Prime Minister has given publicly, the Socialist Party and the Government do not want elections. Moreover, the effort they have made — sincere, genuine and genuine effort — shows that there is a strong desire to bring political positions closer to those who have supported the political options of the Government at this time so demanding for the country, we guarantee conditions of political stability, given the commitments not only with the bodies that contribute decisively to finance our living standards and our investment levels, but also to fully meet the commitments we have made with the citizens. But there is one thing I can tell you, Mr Duarte Pacheco, as has already been said by our Prime Minister: we, under no circumstances, wish for elections, but we are not afraid of elections, and I hope that, if they happen, we will be more successful than you did in your last election campaign. It is that we really hope to win the elections if they come to take place. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, if you give me a minute's attention, I'd like to show you some graphics. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mrs. Members of the PSD asked them to respect the arguments of the other banks. He asked Mr Duarte Pacheco to look at the country's development indicators that I am going to show. The speaker began to display several graphs. First of all, regarding the population between 30 and 34 years of age with higher education, we see the evolution of the number of students who attended higher education. But see also, Mr Duarte Pacheco, what was the total expenditure on Innovation and Development in the country and the course that has been taken since you had government responsibilities. Now see what effort has been made in public investment and private investment in our country, which has grown. It's good that you look at these numbers... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I know you don't want to look, I know it's hard to look, because these figures on public investment and private investment show that the national economy is more competitive than when you had responsibilities in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But if you want to be even more convinced, look at the levels of unemployment. [[Show the PCP!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u329	No, you guys need to check. This is the unemployment rate. See that, in your time, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u330	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker speak and show the graphics, which is a common practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u331	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you not to feel overwhelmed by criticism, but also to let me talk and present this data. Mrs. Members in 2013 we were about 17 % unemployed and today we are 6 % 5 % unemployed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, in order to remind themselves again, in 2011 the transfers to the SNS were EUR 8100 million, in 2012 stood at EUR 7500 million and see that from 2012 to 2022, in the investment forecast for 2022, we are talking about a substantial reinforcement in the quality of the National Health Service response service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, we cannot in any way miss the opportunity to look at the following chart. Some days ago, the head of the National Strategic Council of the PSD — I thought they had learned something from the results that have developed in the course of your policies of over-austerity, but I found that they did not learn — responsible for your strategic thinking at economic level, came to say that, after all, it was necessary to continue wagering in low wages for the country to be competitive,... [[It's nothing like that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u332	... and that's why they don't like to look at this chart, where we start from a minimum salary of 485 € to 850 € — forecast up to 2024 / 2025. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, if I may, as you well know, transport and mobility are also a fundamental factor of citizenship, a factor of equality, a factor of cohesion, a factor of spatial planning. For they look well at the investment values in transport and mobility: in 2015, 0, 3 and, in 2021, 522 million implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, in conclusion, what these numbers show, because the numbers are important because they show realities, is that we are carriers of a cause of national development, a cause of the country's development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, this development vision is at the same time a cause for investment policies, innovation policies, development policies, people's qualifications, income stimulus, because they stimulate consumption, because they stimulate production, because they stimulate employment, because they guarantee the sustainability of the social functions of the State. It is because of this different vision in which we stand that we continue to believe that our ambition for the country is an ambition that serves the interests of the Portuguese and that serves the interests of Portugal. We therefore continue to deserve the great trust of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-26.u333	Mrs. Members, with no further entries for today's debate, I announce that tomorrow we will begin our work at 10 a.m. with the continuation of the general discussion of the Bill No 116 / XIV/3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2022. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 18 minutes.]]
