ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Let us start our agenda, which is contained in the first and second points of the Government's legislative proposals. Starting with the first point, we will generally discuss Law Proposal No 103 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System and the regime applicable to the organisation and functioning of the courts. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Central Criminal Instruction Court is the one that concentrates the most serious criminality cases and with more sophisticated methods, confirming, in its 20 years of existence, that, essentially, the objectives that they chaired for its creation were certain. It is a model that allows specializing, concentrating capacities, skills and resources, enhancing the accumulation of experience in processes of great complexity and often with international connections, centralizing the articulation of national courts at external level, responding to the needs of judicial cooperation, both at the level of the European Union and in other areas of which Portugal is a party, and promoting coherence and uniformization in the interpretation and application of international legal instruments. For all this, the Central Criminal Instruction Court has proved to be fundamental in combating the most serious forms of social crime, in particular economic or financial crime, but also in strengthening the awareness of citizens in the justice system. With the proposed law presented here today, the Government aims to unify the Central Criminal Instruction Court of its national powers with the powers of the Lisbon Criminal Instruction Court. This initiative does not alter the philosophy underlying the creation of that Court, but adjusts its framework of competences to respond to specific problems, problems which take special expression because of the processes that run there often involve high levels of mediation. As is peacefully recognized, the current format of the Central Criminal Instruction Court generates an imperfect degree of uncertainty in the distribution of processes, as well as an undesirable customization, despite the indispensable public perception of the objectivity of the action of justice. The public debate on justice, always welcome and enriching, must focus on its model of operation, its processes and decisions and not its protagonists. The current model favors the second option. In the proposed model, the judges currently placed in the Central Criminal Instruction Court maintain the ownership of all the cases affecting them, thus avoiding glitches in the principle of the natural judge and possible fragility of the Court itself and the fight against crime. Equally, the pending proceedings in the Lisbon Criminal Instruction Court move to the Central Court without any new distribution, remaining in the ownership of the judges currently affected. Justice officers who perform their duties in the Lisbon Criminal Instruction Court shall also pass on to the Central Court and the aspects not expressly regulated by the law, in particular the measures to balance the expectations between the different judges, shall be held by the Higher Council, thereby ensuring that procedures are transparent at all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting ourselves in this House with the firm conviction that this bill will result in another important step towards improving the responsiveness of our justice system, strengthening its credibility and bringing it closer to the demands of the democratic rule of law. With this intervention, the Criminal Instruction Court of the city of Lisbon will be extended the benefits associated with the competences of the Central Criminal Instruction Court and, in parallel, to a set of gains from the point of view of the concentration of knowledge, the increase of good procedural practices, the strengthening of procedural information, and the optimization of resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u3	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The proposal for a law which the Government presents to us today has two objectives which the Socialist Party endorses, being the first to increase the effectiveness of the intervention of justice in the most complex crime and, by this way, to reduce the morbidity of the so-called'megaprocesses', which distorts — and we can say, even gravely — that the perception that citizens have about the functioning of the system; the second objective, which is part of the consideration that the Central Criminal Instruction Court is, as indeed, the Minister has just mentioned, which concentrates the most relevant processes of economic or financial crime and also those who know more about mediating, adjusting the configuration of this Court, obstinuing the idea of the customization of justice and thus also seeking to improve the degree of randomness in the distribution of processes. For the Socialist Party, we are in the presence of an appropriate solution to the problems identified, which it takes, in fact, seems very favorable, for example, to the Association of Trade Unions of Portuguese Judges, and that comes to meet the concerns expressed by many of the actors in the judicial system. And we must also identify a number of merits in the solution proposed by the Government and which bases the competences of the Central Criminal Instruction Court with those of the Lisbon Criminal Instruction Court, with all the aspects which the Minister has just stated as regards how this merger is operationalized. This solution does not put into crisis the gains arising from the existence of a Central Criminal Education Court in the approach to high complexity processes. It is also a solution that enables us to optimize and streamline resources within the framework of the Lisbon Criminal Instruction Court, while allowing us to increase the number of judges in the Central Criminal Instruction Court, avoiding what I said: customization and difficulties in obtaining the desirable degree of randomness in the distribution of processes. It is also a solution that safeguards the requirements of cooperation at European and national level, as did the Minister. I would like to recall that mega-processes are one of the priorities that the Government has set out in the National Strategy for Combating Corruption, which, in turn, is more than a commitment made by the Government, and which is now making its way with this solution which the Government is proposing to us today. A solution that is effective for a problem that has a major impact on citizens' perception of justice. What the Socialist Party understands is that, by solving the problems that are identified, making justice faster and more effective, we improve citizens' confidence in their institutions, improve citizens' confidence in the administration of justice, and the administration of justice itself, and defend democracy, which is no less important. That's what this bill does. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u5	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : The bipersonalization of the Central Criminal Education Court has long been extremely harmful. She is legally harmful, she is mediatedly perverse, she is feeding on all that is worse in the populism of tabloids and social networks and has, knowingly, had a particularly perverse and grave effect, which is the generation of a public perception of duality in the production of jurisprudence at an extremely sensitive level that is the crime of the highest complexity. All of this has contributed to undermining justice. Moreover: the composition of the Central Criminal Instruction Court by only two judges generates the risk of an inability to respond and of, as has already been said, adultery of randomity in the exercise of jurisdiction. In fact, if one of the two judges is exclusively affected for a long time to a process of special complexity, this makes it necessarily the other judge, of the two, to be charged with exercising jurisdiction over all other processes, which, of course, generates a loss of randomity, generates a predictability that is perverse in the exercise of jurisdiction. I would say, moreover, that even if the juxtaposition of powers between the Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Action and the Central Court of Criminal Instruction is opposed, the Central Court will always have to intervene in a series of judicial acts under the Code of Criminal Procedure — making statements for future memory, first questioning of the defendants, decision of habeas corpus, etc. etc. Therefore, two judges are little and bad, and therefore this solution, which is in force, must be urgently changed. The right solution, from our point of view, would be to join the defense of the principle of the natural judge with the use of expertise, experience and expertise. Therefore, for us, the correct solution would be to extend the framework of judges of the Central Criminal Instruction Court, ensuring its complete autonomy. Now, what happens is that the solution that is proposed to us does not go that way. She's a hybrid solution. In fact, it joins the processes of Lisbon crime in the proceedings of the Central Criminal Instruction Court and will be distributed by the judges of the Lisbon Criminal Instruction Court together with the judges of the Central Criminal Instruction Court. Therefore, this creates some risks and these risks are, first of all, the risk of waste of experience, judges of the Criminal Instruction Court to whom low complexity and high complexity processes are likely to be attributed to one of the other seven judges of the Criminal Instruction Court in Lisbon. It is therefore an unwise solution. It is a solution, in our view, that wastes experience. That is why, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this solution is going to pre-specialise, create a hybrid jurisdiction court, make, as has already been shown, a sort of copy paste among the courts, affecting the judges, the judicial officers...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u7	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u8	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is, of course, a solution that seems to us to be in conflict. It is the most spared, but not always where the savings are, is the gain and, therefore, the work in the field of specialty will be decisive for a just and correct solution and for the final vote of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u9	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u10	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The government brings us — and finally, it could have done so, as was pointed out at the time, when we discussed all the matter and the whole package, so to speak, of combating corruption — the issue of the Central Criminal Investigation Court. In our view, other matters should also be discussed now. We have not reached consensus on this point of view, but we will discuss this one. This question of court and concentration in two judges is not new, it is a matter on which we ourselves have spoken many times. It was, moreover, in the previous legislature, in our concerns when we presented a set of matters relating to justice and I myself — the Minister will not let me lie — hearing after hearing, I have confronted the Minister with this. That is why I cannot say the opposite: we understand the problem, we understand its nature and we are in favour of the need to find an answer, because, indeed, as we have already said here, the existence of only two judges, two judges who, even above all, have no exception on any day — concentrate on themselves all the essential of the main processes of combating fraud, whitening, corruption in the country, two judges who, regardless of the content and integrity and seriousness with which any one of them performs his duties, the public perception is that they have almost two lines of various guidelines, one more guaranteeistic, the other more demanding or more judicialist, so to speak, in relation to the defendants. This is the public perception, regardless of the fairness of the decisions you make. This obviously raises a problem that has to have a solution. And the solution can only be, being clear, as is evident, the increase in the number of judges. Moreover, most of the bodies linked to the judiciary, the Union of the Magistrates of the Public Ministry itself, finally, numerous entities, have spoken in this direction and we agree with that solution. I do not believe, too, that this will solve the question of mega-processes, despite referring to it, because it has more to do with connection, that we have already dealt with at another time and at another location than with the number of judges, until we have already found that the examination of the diploma is not, at least with a compulsory nature, a redistribution of these same cases, even if the number of judges is increased and even if the court has accumulated competences with the Lisbon court. So there is a accumulation, there is no redistribution, and there is an increase in the number of judges, which is a positive data.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u12	With regard to the solution itself — and I conclude, Mr President — I mean that we would have a number of hypotheses. It seems more obvious to us is the pure increase in the number of judges, without integrations or mergers. The other would be either going down to another court or an ascending solution, so to speak, that is to join the court. This is a solution, a solution that I think can be improved in the field of specialty, and we will contribute to this, not making it impossible, obviously, in the center of generality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u13	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u14	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The problems of the current organisation of the Central Criminal Instruction Court and the consequent negative impact on public opinion are already well known, an excessive personalisation of justice coupled with sometimes harmful mediaism. It is obvious that it is not understood that the judge should be anonymous, but when we reach a point where the personalities and excessive personal exposure of the judges are used to discredit justice, this is a sign more than clear that something has to change. The organic solution proposed by the Government does not extinguish the Central Criminal Instruction Court, maintaining specialization in the same organizational unit and incorporating judges who are currently in the Criminal Instruction Court, thus moving from two to nine judges. We agree that extinction is not a solution right now. at this time, there is a degree of expertise and experience acquired in processes of great complexity, with interterritorial connections, which we should not nor can we neglect. Serious problem is what has been verified so far and, above all, what happened before 2015 when the Central Criminal Instruction Court operated with a judge in its frameworks. We have serious doubts whether it could ever have existed in these conditions, and even now, with only two judges, doubt remains, because it becomes clear the difficulty in ensuring the necessary guarantee of the judge's randomity in the process distribution, the public image of impartiality, the withdrawal of the idea created in the public opinion of personalities and dichotomies such as that of the "good judge" and that of the "bad judge", judges with "superpowers", of their own transparency and the possible interference of public opinion in justice. Safeguarding these situations can only be possible with a plurality of judges. It is understood from the proposal that pending proceedings will remain with their judges and judicial officials, but in order to effectively fulfil the purpose of this proposal it is imperative that there should be, in fact, redistribution and randomity in the distribution of the new processes, without which this merger would be devoid of meaning. It is not healthy for democracy to concentrate on one or two judges so sensitive information about people and institutions in our country. It is essential that solutions be adopted in response to what has been a problem already known, for the good and health of what is the basis of society: justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u15	Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u16	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The PSD will not vote against this proposal, nor would it vote against any proposal which essentially defends what is being dealt with here, from the outset, because the present situation is terrible, and therefore it is urgent to overcome the context which has already been identified by several Members and which leads us to see more carefully one point or another where the PSD does not agree. However, I would stress, for example, the extension of the number of judges. This is an aspect that the PSD has always been defending. The fact that there are only two judges, even for the reasons already mentioned and the very characteristics of the judges who have been involved in the proceedings, such an extension is something that would always be absolutely essential. However, enlargement to nine judges seems to us to be a reasonable, adjusted number that can solve the problem. In any event, in the field of specialty there are some repairs, some 'couples' which the PSD will propose and which will certainly deserve welcome and benefit from what we are discussing. I shall, for example, give the wording of Article 120 ( 3 ). the proposal for a law: « Without prejudice to paragraph 1 ( b ) of the previous paragraph, the competence of the criminal investigation judges at the headquarters of the Courts of Appeal shall cover their area of competence in respect of the crimes referred to in paragraph 1, where the criminal activity occurs in different districts within the area of the competence of the same Court of Appeal. Do not keep on seeking. ” I am absolutely sure, and the PSD too, that any of the professionals in the forum, or that they have to resort to some mental decoupling, can understand what is written here. But we are also absolutely sure that no one outside this professional circle will be able to understand anything about what is written here. And given the mediatization and social relevance that these processes have, it seems to us that it has an interest to make it clearer, more intelligent and less surreal, for those outside the legal world, this kind of language. I think this is peaceful and it will be easy. We also wanted to draw attention to one fact. This rule, by having this wording and not being amended — which is admitted as a hypothesis of reasoning — may even create problems in terms of resources and competences. It is of no interest to us to come to a magote of resources, which we, in our specialty, can be careful to avoid. There is also another aspect that, in the specialty, needs to be seen. It has to do with the specialization which requires certain matters which are not sufficiently guarded here. The PSD cannot fail to make the proper note about the time these changes will occur. It will be fair or unfair in people's perception that this is only now being proposed by the government because there was that process involving the former Prime Minister, Mr. Eng. José Socrates, for which even, at one point, almost sold tickets to attend one of the legal moments relating to the process,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... causing the social alarm and difficulties that justice will not be harmed in this film, we will call it that. Therefore, this sins late, due to necessity and lack of opportunity, because it seems to be "to run after injury. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u18	The concentration of all complex processes of economic crime in two judges, as has already been said and anyone with more than 15 kilograms will understand, was a solution that could not persist, hampered the good course of justice and made it largely inconsequential to the effective fight against corruption. What has happened in Portugal is that with the mesh of justice the sardine is being caught, but the sharks are going out unharmed. Therefore, we must also take advantage of this time to suit the mesh more to sharks than to the sardine. [[PSD applause.]] [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u19	For an intervention, the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor, through Mr António Filipe. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : This question is circumscribed. during this debate and through the interventions we have heard it is perfectly clear what is the issue, which obviously has to do with the current configuration of the Central Criminal Instruction Court, since it has only two judges in its framework and this leads, given the mediatization and importance of the processes that pass through this training court, to a negative aspect that translates into a 'fulanization' in the application of justice, which is not good, is not desirable. Therefore, for a long time this issue has been discussed and the perversities of this situation are recognized. For this reason, the existence in social communication and in public opinion as a profile chart of the judges regarding the type of decisions they issue is not desirable and it has already been said that, having only two judges, one can create the feeling of the existence of the 'good judge' and the 'bad judge', which I repeat is not desirable. We have all been reflecting on this for some time, but not just us, ladies and gentlemen, who also publicly intervene on these issues of the judicial system, and it is recognized that this situation should be changed, in the interests of the functioning of justice and the credibility of the Central Criminal Instruction Court. There were several hypotheses here, and one of them would be the extinction of the Central Criminal Instruction Court, which, in our view, would be absolutely undesirable, because it would be understood as a terrible sign for justice in Portugal and we would never support a proposal that was in that sense. The proceedings would be decided by competent judges for territorial reasons, so this situation does not seem desirable to us and therefore from our point of view the Central Criminal Instruction Court should be maintained. The other situation would, for example, be to increase the picture of judges in a significant way. Well, there has also been talk about the fact that perhaps we are creating a surplus framework, because the proceedings, in fact, are very relevant and very mediated, but they are not so significant that they justify a considerable increase in the judges' table, which would prove to be surplus in a situation where, in fact, the judges do not provide for all the needs of the courts. There was also a third solution, which is proposed, not to extinguish the Central Criminal Instruction Court but the Lisbon Criminal Instruction Court could be included in the Central Criminal Instruction Court, which would also have jurisdiction in territorial matters as regards the current Lisbon Criminal Instruction Judge. This solution has brought together a significant consensus, a solution which has already been suggested by a number of judicial operators and which brings together a very broad consensus. on our part, we will not run away from this consensus and therefore it seems to us that, among the various possible solutions, this is a reasonable solution and that, at the outset, it can give some assurances of being able to solve what, from our point of view, would need to be resolved, which is this excess of'stimulation' in the application of justice. from which the CFP will generally vote in favour of this bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u21	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u22	Mr President, Mrs Minister : The current system, as it is set up, is incongruent, unproductive and, above all, process-massifier. But it is not true that the laziness of justice, which the Minister denies, is only because of a court that has 14 pens per year. The laxity of justice has far more fundamental reasons and the government had the opportunity here to finally harmonise the system. He had the chance to extinguish the Court — which was a disaster and he did not — he had the chance to create a central court of judgment, as in Spain, and there, yes, it is consistent with the centralized system of instruction, or just to merge Lisbon with the central court and that is what he did. It will not change much, because without the effective strengthening of judges of the Central Criminal Instruction Court and a harmonisation with the trial, this system will never work. We need a kind of national audience, which is what exists in Spain, and it is consistent with the system we have in education. Megaprocesses are not just because of instruction. We have dozens of cases that have been brought to trial for years because of the rules we have in Portugal. The laxity of justice does not depend on the judges of criminal instruction, it is not the fault of Carlos Alexandre or Ivo Rosa, the morosity of justice is the fault of a system that has been implemented and this system has not worked.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u23	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u24	I will finish, Mr. President. What we were supposed to have set up is a central court and the government has lost the opportunity to make this reform here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u25	To close the debate, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. First, I would like to point out that, when the Government presented the national anti-corruption strategy, one of the issues on the table was precisely that, the question of the current composition of the Central Criminal Instruction Court and the wrong perception that generated in the public on the lack of objectivity in the most critical segment of serious and organized crime, namely economic crime, and therefore that was a matter for which the Government could not cease to have an intervention and had it here and now. It is also true that there were several possibilities of solution, many were fabricated and some of them were mentioned here. There was even one who admitted the possibility of creating a decentralised court throughout the country. And those options were refused. And why were they refused? by the elements that have been mentioned here, too, although not concentrated. First of all, as has already been said, we are talking about a court whose maximum instructions you have had in recent years were 17, divided by two judges. The average is 11 instruction processes. However, it also seems to me that, with regard to this court, it was clear that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy had already decided that, considering the procedural suspension and even taking into account the complexity of the proceedings, only one judge would be sufficient to ensure the current procedural burden. Therefore, further increasing the number of judges, from our point of view, in a context where, in addition to others, we have other needs to provide in terms of judges, would not be a good solution. As regards the question of specialization, which has also been mentioned here, I would like to remind you that today we have several specialized courts — the courts of families and minors are specialized and therefore no longer have a very significant number of judges, the courts of execution, the judges of execution, are specialized, the judges of commerce are specialized. I would therefore say that we have here, at the bottom, a "spot" of nine judges, which will allow us not only to maintain specialization but also a certain uniformity, a more uniform work, at the level of decisions. For all these reasons, it seems to us that the option presented here is the one that best alerts us to the difficulties we now want to prevent and overcome. Currently, the framework of judges affected by the Central Criminal Instruction Court is in number corresponding to those who today perform functions in the Lisbon Criminal Instruction Court. It seems to us the most balanced and fairer solution, in all the dimensions in which the problem can be addressed. I'm getting out of here convinced that some...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u27	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, I am convinced from here that some doubts and concerns expressed here can be overcome with the work in the specialty, not distorting the meaning of the proposal. That's what I and the gentlemen. Members present, here, in this Chamber, and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who will work in the specialty, we propose. Thank you very much. I thank all of you for your support in this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u29	We will move on to the second item on our agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of the Bill No 104 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Reform of security forces and services engaged in internal security activities within the framework of the reassignment of competences of the Foreign and Border Service and Bills No. 905 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Amendments to Articles 12 are made. it's 13. o Act No. 53 / 2008 of 29 August approving the Internal Security Act, 907 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Approves the organic of the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum, IP, and 908 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 252/2000 of 16 October adopting the Organic Law of the Foreign and Border Service. For the opening of the debate, the floor is Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill, today under consideration, fulfils Portugal's commitments under the Global Pact on Migration, within the framework of what is the vision of the Government Programme, which looks at migration and foreign communities in Portugal as something beneficial to our society, to our economy, and does not admit that foreign citizens are viewed as a threat. The proposed law that is discussed today promotes the necessary changes in the Internal Security Act and the Criminal Investigation Organization Act that will enable the Government to implement the creation of an administrative structure responsible for the monitoring of migrant citizens and for the humanist asylum policy that we defend. There are eight good reasons for adopting this proposal. First, the global commitments of a country that is proud to have been the first European country to present a programme for the implementation of the Global Pact on Migration. Secondly, the implementation of the Government Programme, which establishes a very clear direction of organic separation between police functions and the administrative functions of monitoring foreign citizens. Thirdly, the need to reorganise security forces and to reorganise criminal investigation competences with regard to the priority of combating trafficking in human beings and the use of the fragility of citizens who are victims of aid networks and promoting illegal migration. Fourthly, this proposal enables us to realize what was one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union in the area of internal affairs and, clearly, also here distinguish between what are border security functions, which are part of the mandate of the Frontex (European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation on External Borders), which was realized at the beginning of our Presidency, and the new dimension of the European Agency for Asylum, which we adopted on the last day of our European Presidency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Further, maximize the effectiveness of action in the area of internal security, in what is now the work of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the performance of the Public Security Police ( PSP ) and the Judicial Police ( PJ ) in areas where they already have an intervention framework. The essential reason is that this bill also opens the way for the realization of a clear separation that will enable us to affirm, in the administrative dimension, the humanist values that we defend,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...in a country that values the role of foreign citizens, defends migrants and welcomes refugees. This bill also allows to maximize the experience gained by the workers of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), which has to be valued, and also enables to reinforce in this dimension what is a view of Portugal as certainly a country with challenges and problems but which has again been recognized recently as one of the safest countries in the world. The fundamental question to which today — because it has to do with the structuring model of the Internal Security Law — Mr President. Members will have to answer if, at the end of almost 50 years of democratic rule of law, a police officer for foreigners is justified. That's not the vision we have. In a democratic Portugal, a framework is justified in which foreign citizens, who have recognized their legal rights, their right to reside to work, to study, for any reason, reside in Portugal, should not, from there, have the same form as any of us in the framework of their administrative affairs. Oh, my God! It is in this framework that we are fulfilling an essential part of the Government's programme, and we are doing so with a vision that strengthens, indeed, the capacity of the security forces. It is the Republican National Guard who saves thousands of people on the Greek islands, welcoming refugees, who is our partner in the Eurosur (European Border Surveillance System) and who has been on land borders, when they have been closed by the requirement of combating the pandemic, in close cooperation with the Spanish authorities. It is the Public Security Police that already guarantees airport security. It is the Judicial Police that has legal competences and accumulated experience in combating transnational crime and trafficking in human beings, this unfortunate characteristic of a global dimension that we have to fight internally, in conjunction with an international vision. That is why this separation is in close coherence, too, with what we stand for at European level. We cannot, at European level, defend that we must, on the one hand, have EASO ( European Asylum Support Office ) and, on the other hand, Frontex, and, in Portugal, continue to believe that everything must be under the same organic structure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who deal with the assessment of asylum protection must not undermine the safeguard of our commitment to certain and safe borders. That is why we are also proud of the following: unlike relatively recent years in which Portugal was worst classified, well below the tenth place in global security levels, contrary to what has happened in the last five years, as it was still recognised by the Assembly of the Republic this week, we also believe it is positive that Portugal has passed from 380 000 foreign citizens in 2015 to around 660 000 by the end of 2020. This must be guaranteed in dialogue with migrant associations and this must require a dimension in which the affirmation of work with rights and equality in access to fundamental rights is realized at every moment in a pandemic framework, in a provisional recognition of access to health, access to social security and access to work, in an emergency condition. This has been ensured and recognised at European and global level.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u32	That is what we wish, except to transform into a normal, regular form of a model that looks at the future with pride in the role of a cosmopolitan society, which recognizes the role of foreign citizens and migrants. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the country is fourth in Europe in the reception of unaccompanied minors from the camps in Greece. The country that is proud to be the sixth European country in the reception of refugees must certainly have a vision that combines security, respect for the rule of law and respect for our obligations as a European external frontier with a humanist dimension that maximizes the experience accumulated by those who have been trained to act in this field. That is why we want, in these various components, to use the positive dimension of the experience of the vast majority of SEF workers, but we also want to find a model that does not repeat what, in a different view, was consolidated in the 1990s. On the contrary, we want a model that is in close conformity with the guidelines we commit ourselves to at the level of the United Nations, at the level of the European Union and at the level of our commitment to Portuguese in the 2019 elections. It is in this framework that we are here, in terms of the powers of the Assembly of the Republic, to tell Parliament, but above all to work for all, not to let everything remain the same but to actually implement a structural reform in our internal security policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u33	Four Members of the Left Block, PSD, PS, and PAN, signed up to request clarifications from the Minister, who informed the Bureau that he intends to answer the questions together. Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Deputies, Mrs. Members, we agree with the statement that an immigration police responsible for regulating migration flows and for combating trafficking in human beings reiterates the idea that migration is a matter of police and security, which must be corrected. We believe that this is a wrong perception, that migrant persons are not a threat to security, as the Minister said in the presentation of the proposal, and that migrant persons should not be suspected of crimes until they prove otherwise, and must first be included in our national community. We know that maintaining this perception poisons, in a profound way, the relationship of the State with the foreign people who live in Portugal and who here look for better conditions for their lives. Migration is indeed not a police matter, it is not a crime; it is a right, a right set up in Article 13. that of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and that is how it should be treated. We have repeatedly defended, in several debates, an immigration policy that places people in the centre and, to this end, we consider it necessary to promote an organic separation between the police and the administrative aspect of the Foreign and Border Service. We also believe that this measure is essential to repair the State's relationship with migrant persons and to remove the inappropriate and dangerous link between migration and security, thus promoting the inclusion of foreign people living in Portugal in the national community, with the guarantee of full rights. Despite our agreement with the objective of the proposal, which we will be able to achieve, it maintains a set of measures and aspects that we consider essential to be exceeded in the process of discussion in the field of expertise. If, on the one hand, security forces are responsible for ensuring border surveillance and control, on the other hand, citizens and citizens should have access to all means of redress to ensure their rights. We must also ensure the participation of civil society organisations in this process in order to be able to ensure that the human rights violations that have occurred in the past are not repeated at this time, when we are reorganizing and restructuring this service. I therefore ask you, Minister, whether the Government is available to create legal offices in all border areas in order to guarantee the right to information and defence of foreign persons, stating that these offices must have the participation of representatives of civil society organisations to ensure this strict compliance with the human rights of persons who are denied entry into national territory or who are detained in temporary installation centres. The other question has precisely to do with the conservation or maintenance of these temporary installation centres. We believe that alternatives to detention should be sought and therefore these temporary installation centres should become another mechanism or another host structure for the people to whom entry into national territory is refused. I ask you, Minister, if you are available to look for these alternatives. On the other hand, we want guarantees of respect and safeguard of the rights of workers and workers of the SEF, which have been forgotten in this restructuring process carried out by the Government, since we have the information that the meetings that have been held have not allowed the participation of trade unions and representative organisations in this process. The opacity involved in this process should be replaced by the guarantee given by the Government that all the rights of workers and workers will be respected, including the right to original placement and equivalence in the transition of careers to security forces, access to shift allowance, as defined by the General Public Works Act, and the remuneration supplements they currently receive. Do you give us these guarantees, Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u35	For a request for clarification, Mr Duarte Marques, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. But it breaks because it wants to! As I have said in the Socialist Party's Government Programme, there was a proposal with which this Parliament agreed, which was the question of separating the documentary area from the SEF research area. But the Minister was not happy, he wanted to go further and, in a flight forward, not strategic, but tactical, to try to camouflage and distract attention from a mistake of his governance, he came to dismantle the SEF. This is the consequence and breaks a consensus when there was no need to do so. It is appropriate to say that « what is born wrong never goes right», because then step by step we will see errors in this area which are, yes, a threat to internal security. Mr Minister, sometimes it is necessary to stop thinking and stop making nonsense. The Minister is making a reform of these without listening to the unions, has wasted an opportunity to make an important reform in these services and, in this case, commits a set of inconsistencies in his speech which are unbelievable, Minister. Mr. Minister says, first of all, that he does not want a police officer to police migrants and then hand over the mission to GNR and PSP. Mr. Minister says he wants a more humanist policy. Oh, Mr Minister, it was not the right thing that wanted to'spoil' migrants in a prison in Caxias! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u37	So don't come with the right side, as you did two days ago. It's incoherent! The Minister gives answers according to the tactics and the political opportunity and they rarely get right. Mr Minister, the main problem of the SEF, at the moment, is the lack of human resources for the increase in demand that Portugal has had for foreigners, and this increase also has to do with government decisions, with the support of the Left Block, which you have not warned. Once again, to cover up your mistake, the SEF is extinguished. That is, the way to kill responsibilities, which are yours, are not on the right. The SEF is a security service that has credibility in Portugal, it has always had, and whenever the government went nuts because they did not take care of giving it the resources it needed — it is here in Portugal and abroad. Now, in a matter of political whim, the SEF is extinguished. It's very simple. It is easier to extinguish it and so the Minister may try to leave some work. But, Mr Minister, what has to stop happening in the SEF, whatever the future of this institution, is the Minister appointing people of the Socialist Party, not only for the leadership but for the middle leaders, who don't know the house, who makes nonsense, who torments the employees and then demotivas them. That's why people complain! You have to stop that, Minister. [[PSD applause.]] I draw the attention of the Left Block that in the discussion in the field of specialty you will have to have another attitude. It is that if the Left Block does not want such a secure SEF, then hand it over to the PSP and GNR, which have a completely different function, it is a risk, because they do not have this training, they do not have this know-how and are trained for other things. It doesn't make sense! Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, Mr José Manuel Pureza, reverse your position...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u38	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u39	...because this makes no sense and, once again, it's a mistake they're going to collaborate and for which they're going to regret. Then it's someone's fault. Mr Minister, I end with three or four very simple questions. Mr. Minister came back on Caxias and did very well. Is this or not an agreement with the Left Block on the eve of this approval? Be transparent in this matter! How is it justified for the Minister in Parliament to talk about the migration pact, with the pride he has in this agreement, when the migration pact says precisely that no militarized forces can be found in border control and in the follow-up of immigrants and Mr GNR has to do this? Oh, my God! Minister, your speech is inconsistency, contradiction itself! I shall finish, Mr Minister, with another sentence which concerns me and which concerns the Portuguese. It is that, at this time, when security is a plus-value for everyone in the country, the main threat to security in Portugal is the weak quality, lack of transparency and lack of political capacity of the Minister of Internal Administration. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u40	Good morning, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. José Magalhães, of the PS. [[Pause.]] That's the indication I have.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u41	Mr President, the floor should be given to Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u42	It is only now that the Bureau has been informed that Mrs. Susana Amador will use the word. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u43	Mr President, Minister, in this debate, and with this bill, as well as with the ongoing reform, what is intended, essentially — is the main design — is to change the way in which the Public Administration relates to immigrants and refugees. This is a programmatic commitment, because we understand that it is urgent to reconfigure the way in which public services deal with the phenomenon of migration, adopting an approach that we want, as mentioned in its intervention, more humanist, less bureaucratic, in line with the objective — which is also strategic — to attract, in a regular and orderly manner, labour for the performance of functions in different sectors of activity. The proposed law on plasma discussion — and well — this change of view, this new approach by transferring to the PSP, to the GNR and to the PJ police and research tasks committed before the SEF, ensuring, necessarily, a realisation of human resources, material resources for the fulfilment of that desire, and always, of course, with the safeguarding of workers' rights, their acquired rights, their progress, their right to career. This will certainly be preserved and preserved. The realization of this separation between police and technical and administrative functions, of authorization for documentation for immigrants and refugees is also a result of the Government's programme and, therefore, this reform, Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is not reactive, it is prospective, it is strategic, it comes not from any isolated or dramatic episode, but from a change of paradigm, because the world has changed and the approach to migration has to evolve and it has to anchor itself in the right to have rights. That is why, Minister, this debate is still on four key issues for which it also requested clarification. The first question, also for the whole House, is whether or not we want to change the approach, placing the immigrant or refugee citizen at the center of the service, preserving his rights, humanizing him, training and vocationing a designated service for the purpose. Second question: do we or do we not want a model for the management and reception of migrant persons and asylum seekers based on an open logic of the police and security context? There are many parliamentary groups — such as the Left Block — that actually follow us in this new logic. Unfortunately, the PSD bill further deepens the police and security logic, creates an artificial separation between the administrative and police component, but under the same roof, maintains cohabitation in the SEF and further deepens this security and restrictive logic by changing the nature of the service to the security force. Therefore, in the Socialist Party and in this parliamentary group we do not follow this police logic,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u44	But they put us in Caxias prison!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u45	...we do not follow this security logic, because that is not our matrix, these are not the winds of change that bring us the Global Pact for Migration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u47	The third question is whether or not we want to ensure transparency gains, whether or not we want to be speedy, agility in the issue of residence and asylum documents, and whether or not we want equal treatment in the renewal of these documents by national citizens, associated with the Institute of Registers and Notaries. The fourth question is whether or not we want to concentrate police resources and competences in the security forces, which already have a complementary activity and intervention in border control,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u49	...in aid for illegal immigration. And do we want or do we not want the judiciary to have absolute reservations in the fight against this growing crime, to this transnational crime that is the trafficking in human beings and that it needs, in fact, a different logic as well? These are the four questions that separate us, and which clearly separate the left from the right, which hold onto its bronze statue and to immobilism. There are no winds of change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u50	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u51	Mr President, Minister, we well know that there has been an event in Portugal that brought the pressure and political context to begin the debate on the reformulation of security forces and services operating the internal security activity in Portugal. But if on the one hand it is very important that this event does not fall into collective forgetfulness, on the other hand it is very important that all others that happen in Portugal and are attacks on human rights serve as a reflection on any action of the State. In fact, the data in Portugal on attacks that take place within the security forces must, of course, concern everyone in this House and must be deeply concerned by the Minister of Internal Administration. It is clear that restructuring in internal security is necessary, however, Mr Minister, any restructuring in this law and in a matter of this gravity and of this relevance must, of course, require a lot of weight. In addition, it also requires the hearing of all professionals represented by trade unions, which we believe cannot happen in 100 m racing mode. We therefore understand that there is a clear need for this process to guarantee this in the stage of discussion in the field of specialty. What we now want to know is whether there is availability either by the Government or by the Socialist Party to do so, because one thing is certain, Minister : the NAP will not be available here today to pass blank checks. We are also available for a specialized, involved and discussed process with a view to ensuring not only a fair transition of professionals but also an amendment that makes sense for internal security, which makes sense for the reception of migrants, refugees, asylum seekers. We are available for a specialized procedure which brings to this law a medium- and long-term vision and which does not reveal itself, Minister, a quick thought. We therefore do not accept that it is an accelerated process and, of course, there are no conditions for it to run in three weeks at this legislative session. There are therefore concerns that the Government should clarify this proposal. Is there a government's will here to put the principle of territoriality first and foremost on the principle of specialization? This is a question which, of course, we understand that it must be discussed in the field of expertise, because it makes it difficult to implement this law and needs further debate. In view of the internal mobility of migrant citizens, has the Government identified the difficulties that will arise in terms of monitoring activities using the labour force of migrant persons? For example, in the case of a person who works in intensive agriculture in Lower Alentejo and who, however, moves to catch the almond tree in the Tejo estuary, how is its process passed? Is it hand out of hand, territorial jurisdiction of the criminal police body? Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, there are indeed a number of issues that need a more in-depth debate. There is a need in this reform to ensure solutions for migrant citizens, particularly in terms of waiting time for documents to be obtained. He gave a very concrete example, because we're in July and people were only able to make schedules for documents by September. We are talking about 51 000 cases that are scheduled and 90 000 are waiting for expressions of interest, so we are talking about 150 000 cases. We remember, moreover, that in 2017 the SEF worked with the same number of people as in 2021. It dealt with 20 000 residence permits and now it deals with more than 80 000 applications. So when it comes to strengthening human resources, which is fundamental here, and we remember that, within the State budget, the NAP has introduced a proposal aimed at strengthening human resources for combating, for example, human trafficking issues, as well as for the urgent strategy, to be drawn up in 2022 — there is also a need for work at this level. I would ask Mr Minister whether he still takes into account the possible conflicts that may arise with this transition and that we have already seen happen in other circumstances, such as in vaccine escorts or even in the return to Portugal itself. There is an urgent need to have an in-depth debate in the field of expertise and we would like to know the availability of the Minister and the Socialist Party in this regard. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u52	Formulated as requests for clarification, you have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u53	Mr President, thank you to the honourable Members and to the honourable Member who spoke at this stage of the debate. I would like to tell you, with all transparency, without comments — which I have essentially done in the initial intervention and which I will leave for a later stage — that I will, in essence, answer the very concrete questions that have been raised by the various sides. Yes, monitoring of the legal situation of migrant citizens is already done today on the basis of a protocol which was concluded with the Advocates' Order and which guarantees, at all major airports, structures or permanent presence or presence in a picket scheme. We also want to move to the legal framework the institutionalization of this type of legal protection. Secondly, we understand that the existence of a monitoring and monitoring mechanism—in a model that we will have to discuss at the stage of speciality and in the phase of the implementation of the organic law of the future structure responsible for asylum and migration—in which there is a representation of migrant associations makes all the sense, beginning to institutionalize what cannot be merely a one-time debate. Thirdly, on reception structures: very different situations need to be distinguished. The receipt of applicants for international protection must continue in their various forms and, increasingly, be made in a close articulation with structures such as the CPR ( Portuguese Council for Refugees ) or the JRS ( Jesuit Refugee Service ) and must be done in a context that anticipates integration into Portuguese society. But even with regard to cases arising from judicial determination, my orientation is that all such cases — all such cases — should be accompanied from their initial stage by the Inspectorate-General of Internal Administration, in the internal view of the Ministry, the Ombudsman, as a national mechanism for the prevention of torture, and by the monitoring structures we have available to come into being. As regards an issue which has been raised by Mrs Bebiana Cunha and Mrs Susana Amador, and which, I would say, has gone through the various interventions on workers' rights, we have already had several meetings where two very clear principles are clearly enshrined: the right to career and to safeguard everything that is acquired. That is a fundamental principle. Concreteness is essentially a matter of decree-law, whose general principles may, if we understand it, be enshrined in this stage of discussion of the law in the field of specialty. But implementation is basically a matter of decree-law and without this phase we will now have the time—because this decree-law can only be approved after the publication of the law we are discussing today—of at least a few months to clarify everything that is at stake. That, therefore, is an essential principle in a framework where we must separate what is a border control policy from what is a policy of safe borders, a policy of asylum and migration, Mrs Susana Amador. We are therefore implementing commitments that we have shared in the electoral programme and in the Government programme, which was discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Duarte Marques, allow me to express, without making any general political comment, total perplexity to the questions he raises. First of all, let me tell you that I do not regard it as the best interpreter in the commitments of the Government Programme. The Portuguese chose that this is the government solution and not another that legitimately defended, but that the Portuguese understood to put in opposition. Secondly, this idea that there are some holders of national law to consensus and others who issue opinions... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since 2015, with the support of the Portuguese, there is a plural parliamentary framework that makes political consensus in each situation, at every moment, with all legitimacy. And the PSD is not a holder of any special rights. Finally, I am surprised by the retreat, that is, by the PSD lie, once again! We had a debate in May when the PSD said: « After all, we are in favour of a clear separation of functions». And I saluted that. At the end of this May debate, I welcomed the arrival of the PSD to this great agreement. Again, I was hasty—as happens whenever we believe in the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u54	It's always hasty!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u55	The PSD confirms that it does not want to separate any and, worse yet, it wants to turn the SEF into a security force. We're clear where we're going. The PSD, head-lost, doesn't even know where you want to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u56	You're going home soon! And you didn't answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u57	To present the legislative initiative of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, this reform is a disaster and an anachronism. It is such an anachronism that it can transfer competences to an entity that does not yet exist, which has been pointed out by several people. This reform has a motive: revenge. It is the revenge of a government that, for ideological and political reasons, wants to dismantle an institution with decades of evidence. It is an enormous precipitation, because what we are going to do with this is to say that we do not want to militarize the control of foreigners, but we have attributed to a militarized force the control of foreigners and borders. If there's more contradiction, it's right here under me as I speak. But not only the dismantling of the SEF is revealed as a necessary thing. It was so, so unnecessary to do it on the backs of the workers, on the backs of the officials, on the backs of the citizens, that it would bring to the Assembly of the Republic a speedy reform, so that it would not have to discuss the dismantling of the SEF out there. This was what the Minister of Internal Administration should have done, and not on the back of the Portuguese, to wake up, to try to dismantle an institution. This is a government and a country that has given up controlling borders, has given up controlling internal security and wants to transform border control and internal security into a kind of mercy agency of the European Union and its doors. There's something to be said today. If the right has a mission for the next few years, when we get rid of this minister and government, it is to reverse this shameful decision and bring the SEF back to where it deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u59	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We bring to this debate a bill that aims to create an agency for migration and asylum, which has the task of improving the conditions for the reception of migrants and asylum seekers, deburocating and simplifying access to full citizenship, assuming the performance of the administrative functions currently assigned to the SEF. Migrant people who have chosen Portugal to live contribute to the demographics, to the development of the economy, to the sustainability of the social security system, as well as to the wealth and social and cultural diversity of the country. Despite the relevance of the contributions of migrant and refugee persons, as well as the recognition by the Government that Portugal needs more immigration and more people to work, the obstacles to the regularization of migrant persons persist. The Portuguese State has failed to guarantee foreign citizens and foreign citizens equal access to rights. Chronic delays in the Foreign and Border Service, in markings for renewal or obtaining residence permits, have been denounced by migrant persons and organizations representative of migrant persons as one of the main obstacles posed by the State, which, by keeping thousands of citizens and foreign citizens in an irregular situation, prevents access to public services, social services, employment with rights, housing and family reunification, among other fundamental rights. Migration policy in Portugal is based on the security and restrictive model, based on bureaucracy that coexists in the same institution an immigration policy, border surveillance and control, documentation processing, regulation of migration flows and combating trafficking in human beings. This is a wrong option — it has been wrong in the past and it is still wrong today — and it reinforces the bold idea that migrants are a threat to which the State needs to protect itself and that immigration is a police matter. Migrants and asylum seekers seeking Portugal to improve their conditions — as many Portuguese and Portuguese have done in the past and continue to do — cannot be treated as suspects or criminals until proven otherwise. Immigration should not be a police matter and the rights of migrant persons must be safeguarded and protected. The defence of full citizenship implies a profound change in the paradigm of the state's relationship with foreign people. We need a policy of welcoming migrant people based on a humanist approach, which respects rights and values diversity and the contribution they make to Portugal. The separation of the administrative aspect of the police aspect is a fundamental step in the reconstruction of the Portuguese State's relationship with the foreign people who live here. However, this measure alone is not sufficient. We can't change everything to keep it all the same. There is a need for structural change in this inhuman model to deal with immigration. We therefore urgently need a policy of reception and immigration that takes account of the needs of migrant persons and that clearly respects the human rights of migrant persons. To this end, we propose the creation of a service dedicated to the issue of documentation for the entry and stay of foreign citizens and citizens into national territory. We consider the existence of a specialized body, with officials and officials with strict training to ensure the same respect for the rights guaranteed to citizens and national citizens, to people living in our national community. We want to ensure that at all stages of this process of admission, entry, migrant persons, asylum-seekers and refugees always have access to specialized legal support, interpreters and mediators with whom they can communicate in a dominant language and to the support of non-governmental organizations working in this area and consular support. It is essential to guarantee this support. We defend the creation of a structure at the heart of its intervention to defend the rights of migrant persons and asylum seekers, which eliminates discretion and arbitrariness and which gives the whole process the guarantees of the Code of Administrative Procedure, in particular in terms of transparency, time limits and right of appeal. This agency shall be responsible for implementing and monitoring policies relating to the regularization of the entry and stay of foreign citizens into national territory, for issuing opinions on asylum and refugee applications, as well as for the study, promotion, coordination, implementation of measures and actions relating to migration policies and migration movements. This agency provides for the existence and establishment of a committee for migration, asylum and refuge, composed of members of the Government and civil society. It should integrate researchers and representatives of civil society organisations working in the area of the protection of the rights of migrant persons. With this body, it is intended to promote a formal mechanism for consultation, support and participation in the definition of the agency's general lines of action, issuing opinions and recommendations on migration and asylum. This new body will be under the supervision of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which protects the Secretary of State for Integration and Migration by promoting an unequivocal separation between internal security and immigration policies. We also believe that it should be avoided that migrant persons should be guided in their own services. The services for granting and renewing the residence permit shall take place in places where public services common to other citizens living in Portugal are provided. Thus, we believe that we are able to respond in a robust way to the needs of migrant people living in Portugal, ensuring the protection of their rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. To present the PSD's legislative initiative, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u62	Mr. President, Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: What brings us here today is not, as the Government is pompsimously saying in its bill, "a proposal for a reformulation of the security forces and services engaged in the internal security activity". What brings us here today is the analysis of a proposal for the extinction of the Foreign and Border Service as it has been established in the internal security system since 1986. It's interesting to know why and why. It is also interesting to see that the PSD presents itself in this debate with a different proposal, alternatively and radically opposed to the one presented by the Government. We do not do this to respond to the already spent argument—that the PS always brings in the algebra—that the PSD does not present any proposal. We do so because of the sense of responsibility and because we consider, from the very beginning, that it moves in matters of internal security, to make changes in matters of sovereignty requires politicians and rulers with the sense of responsibility to realize that their role, their role — the role of all of us — is necessarily ephemeral, so we have to seek not only to make them approve but to give as much consent as possible to the changes in an area with this sensitivity. The Government, and in particular the Minister of Internal Administration, preferred, as always preferred, imposition, absence of debate; in a word, arrogance. And I must tell you, Mr Minister, that, for a minister who has provided us with episodes on a weekly basis, come here to say that the PSD is on the loose, said by someone who has even saved, has demonstrated a level that you subtract from politics in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] Today the two alternative proposals presented to us are clear: the Government proposes the extinction of the SEF ; the PSD proposes the strengthening of the SEF position.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u63	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u64	The Government proposes to empty the SEF of its police powers; the PSD proposes to classify the SEF as a security force, thus combining it with the other security forces, with all competences and duties. The Government, in the wake of everything that advises good practices at the level of internal security, proposes to apply the principle of territoriality to define the powers of police forces; the PSD proposes the principle of specialization as applied in modern security systems. It is therefore a total difference, a completely opposite view, which makes the decision quite easy: on the one hand, who intends to classify the SEF as a security force, reinforcing its role; on the other hand, who intends to extinguish this unit as an easier way to solve the problems, eliminating them. Let us see, then, the consistency of the Government's proposal. Why is the SEF extinction proposed? What are the advantages? What are the gains for the country and the system when making this change? Does the Government simply say that it intends to separate the police functions from the administrative functions, but — replying directly to the Minister, because we are still at the point where we were in May - then it asks: if the aim is not to confuse some functions with others, is not to create friction between functionally different police functions, because this intention is limited to the SEF and why does the government not have the courage to introduce this organic separation into the entire building of the internal security system? The definition of a logical and coherent system of articulation of the activity developed by different security forces and services is one of the fundamental objectives of the system, so, if so, it is not understood, from a functional point of view, what wins the system with an organic separation in a single security service and not throughout the system, as we defend in May, as we defend before May and as we continue to defend today. In fact, the government even says, in its minimalist explanation of reasons, "separating the administrative component of the police component in order to ensure that there is no suspicion about who immigrates or pretends to immigrate". Did you guys really write this? Oh, my God! Do you really think that the police component does so grossly suspect who is immigrating or wants to immigrate? Oh, my God! And if they are found to practice this « suspicion », how do they propose to remove the police component to the SEF to avoid this practice and attribute these powers to exclusively police forces, such as PSP and GNR? Does this reasoning make any sense? Oh, my God! But there's more. Parliament's services have carried out a comparative law study of the competent foreign and border authorities which has allowed us to see that, although with naturally differentiated responses, all countries maintain a clear specialization between immigration and asylum services and border competences. Even in cases where these are attributed to different entities, they are concentrated on one entity and not, as the Government intends, distributed by several. All the countries consulted practice specialization rather than dispersion. at this point we also follow the opinion of the Internal Security Observatory, published just two days ago, which says: « We believe that the principle of specialization must be in line with the principle of territoriality, even to avoid conditionalisms that could endanger internal security ». Everyone has this opinion and practice, but the government wants to unleash a highly specialized force and a global reference, with several examples of innovation and good practices followed by our European partners, by the distribution of their competences by generic security forces. It changes the power specialized in the treatment of asylum situations and immigration by forces that do not have this specialized vocation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you intend to gain from this? Is it not understood that the dignity of reception that immigrants deserve in our country will be much more assured by a force that is specially dedicated to them, by agents trained only for situations of reception, than by agents whose competence comes only from the criteria of territoriality?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u65	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u66	On the other hand, if the number of PSP and GNR agents is recognized as insufficient, how does the Government think it will ensure the increase in powers which it wants to be assumed by these forces now, without a substantial reinforcement of the framework that has not been fulfilled over the years? Will this be done at the expense of the loss of police presence on the streets of our cities and parishes or does the government intend to reinforce these units, with the police elements coming from the SEF? Do you intend to break the wage gap and rights between each other, knowing, as you know, that the SEF agents have conditions that are not assigned to PSP and GNR professionals? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a process that, from the outset, shows its inconsistencies and disparate decisions. The Government seeks to demonstrate that it is limited to following what is included in its programme, but has a set of decisions that are completely contradictory to that intention. It is noted that the Government proposed the extinction of the SEF in December 2020, but had in force an admission plan in the same SEF by 2023 ; the SEF had frozen the progressions more than 20 years ago and shortly before the announcement of this termination decision by the SEF, the Government authorised progressive competitions for the careers of Chief Inspector and Inspector-Coordinator. Moreover, despite this announcement of December 2020, in April 2021 more 21 workers were admitted to the security and security career. How do you figure this out? How is it understood that there is an initial intention in the Government Programme to terminate this service, but that admissions and progress take place at the same time? Moreover, all of these are admitted to police duties and not to administrative functions. It is not understood that competitions for skills that were intended to be lost will continue to be promoted! With regard to the international level, the situation is even worse: the Schengen catalogue requires only one authority to ensure the management of the integrated border management system, but the Government proposes that the powers be distributed by two. The European agencies Frontex and Europol only admit that the representation of States is ensured by police entities, however the Government intends to assign this representation to the future SEA ( Foreign and Asylum Service ), which will not have police functions. This is even ridiculous to assign to the SEA the responsibility to represent Portugal in the Forum of Borders, and the SEA is emptied of competences in the control of these same borders. In the background, we will give an internationally reliable image of our country: disorganized, destructured, with the dispersion of competences. We will certainly be the only European country represented in these forums by three different entities, in which it will be a good demonstration of what unfortunately we are. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the PSD is not winning a position just to be contrary to that of the Government; the PSD is expressing its different vision for the management of the internal security system. The PSD is not in this debate to seek to protect the SEF, because we are not delegates of the SEF, nor do we have any recourse to fight for its subsistence; the PSD is in this debate to hear with humility the numerous voices that rise against this purpose of the Government, such as that of Dr. Rui Pereira, former holder of this folder in a PS government, and that of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, Helena Fazenda, especially authorized, who expressed, in a recent interview, that the SEF is an absolutely essential service to internal security. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is in this debate to fight for a system that does not lack an agency specialized in borders and immigration, which develops special knowledge to cover an area with a growing need for action, which knows how those who arrive in our country in search of employment or asylum, who have specially trained agents for this reception, should be welcomed. The PSD is in this debate precisely to better protect these immigrants, precisely in the name of coherence and better articulation of the system, precisely so that we will not return to an area of such important achievements. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u67	Mr André Coelho Lima, Mr José Magalhães of the PS, signed up for clarification. You have the floor, Mr. José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, Mr André Coelho Lima, who read today morning the public newspaper soon had news about what Mr was going to say here. One of the points of this news was that the PSD was very pleased because, finally, someone thought to withdraw the right to strike to the SEF inspectors. I read the news and went to check, but only when you hear what you just presented is that we were able to understand what happened to the PSD. It is not easy to understand, because it is a great pull back—from here to a little bit, I will demonstrate how far back that pull is—is indeed a very heavy return to the past, in which I see the unforgettable finger of Eng. Angel Correia and his «insurrection of nails». In fact, there is here — hardly can be made worse — the transformation of a hybrid entity, as is true, with its two sides, a purely and hard-wired entity in the internal security sector, a security force which is something that has a meaning, as we know, related to the disappearance of the right to strike — we have made the constitutional review for this — to deal with the affairs of foreigners, especially migrants. In other words, it is the most radical and extreme procedure for the treatment of immigrants. Now, this has only happened in Portugal in remote times, which I will already identify. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after making a monstrosity of these, they have remained on the ground of no one, because if some in the SEF see in you the last hope of boycott to the government — it will not happen, have patience; it will happen otherwise! — now this support phalanx disappears because they want to take away their right to strike.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u69	I'll see you soon!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u70	No, no! The PSD joins those who think that the structure should not be entitled to strike. They obviously won't have PSP and GNR. from there came no harm to the world, on the contrary, as you see today at Lisbon airport. Well, the ladies. Members are in a loss zone in this area. I mean, they don't know what they're gonna do, and they do that shit after they stop thinking. In fact, they stopped and thought, and this « mouse» came out, which is by chance ugly. And at the same time, they stand up, like all those who have not studied the problems — non-existent problems... Mr. Deputies shouted "but where are there staff? “What will happen to the staff? "There are no staff! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” He's wrong! We will not kill SEF inspectors, there will not be a SEF inspector holocaust; they will pass quietly and peacefully, without loss of royalties. That's it! So nothing is lost, everything becomes — we used to learn this in the school banks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I can not fail to note, lastly, with a certain indignation, which did not hesitate to falsify positions of people who are not in this debate, Dr. Rui Pereira and Dr. Helena Fazenda, suggesting that they support the 'bobour of the Consignment' which you have tabled here. Well, it's fake! They spoke when they spoke according to what they did, but did not support the PSD project. Therefore, each one who assumes his responsibilities and does not hide, like the little children, behind the daddy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u71	Don't be a child!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u72	Mr. Deputy, learn! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u73	To reply, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u74	Mr President, with the short parliamentary experience I have, I expected for everything, less for this! Mr. José Magalhães, I will take advantage of your words to answer you, using the figure of the mouse. We are close to the Long Mouse and indeed we have had an intervention — very ugly! — Mr Deputy. I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u75	Of ratasan!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u76	The honourable Member comes here to be appalled on the matter, with the transformation into a security force, of the alleged and possible restriction of the right to strike. However, at the last hearing, I directly questioned the Minister on this matter, saying that he felt that the Government intended, precisely, to clarify the circumstances of the SEF to be entitled to strike, with all the consequences that they would have, and you, in part, replied to me like this: "Have you only noticed now? How naive! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And you are now, here, becoming an offended virgin, realizing that you don't know anything? Oh, my God! That's not to be ashamed! Look, that's not embarrassing at all! I'm going to tell you more: you must not me, because to me, at last, only those I leave, but at this bench an apology for accusing me of falsehood. Mr. Rui Pereira has spoken beside me-- beside me! The opinion he conveyed said to her by my side, I listened to her in a session of the SEF. Dr. Helena Fazenda wrote in the public newspaper for those who wanted to hear it. And I didn't say at any time that they supported the PSD proposal, that it didn't even exist when they spoke. This is so ridiculous, so ridiculous! You enter into such a hallucination that you are amused by your own words and no longer know what you are saying, which is not even the work of Parliament, but your own role in this Parliament over the years. But I will tell you more: it is an extreme demagogy to speak in more extreme security proposed by the PSD. It is the greatest demagogy I have heard here, when the government proposes not to assign to the SEF police officers the functions they have, but to assign them to the PSP and GNR police officers. This has nothing security, nothing security! ... More: then, not content with this walkover, you still said « but calm, because there will not be a holocaust of agents, they will all continue». In other words, you destroy the SEF, because the agents are very bad, but they will, however, continue to have them perform the same functions. Have you ever seen the hypocrisy of what you just said? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u77	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the process of intervention. Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Government today proposes to this House amendments to the Internal Security Act, the Criminal Investigation Organization Act and the Organic Laws of the PSP and the GNR, with the sole objective of extinction of the Foreign and Border Service. Subjecting this question to the exercise of the legislative competence reserved by the Assembly of the Republic is a constitutional imperative which the Government has long recognized, but which is beyond doubt. Extinguishing a security service whose existence is expressly provided for in the Internal Security Act could not only be done by decrees amending the organic status of the security forces and services involved. It implies a structural change to the Internal Security Act and has implications that have greatly extravagant a mere reorganization of public administration services. The Government proposes the extinction of the Foreign and Border Service, distributing its current tasks to five different entities: the Foreign and Asylum Service, to be established ; the Registry and the Notary ; the Judicial Police ; the Public Security Police ; and the Republican National Guard. The CFP does not agree with this proposal and will not follow it. There is no question of the correctness of the reason put forward by the Government to separate the police functions from the administrative functions within the current tasks of the SEF. That separation is appropriate, fair, and the CFP has always defended it. It is not fair or appropriate that anything that relates to the legal status of foreigners in Portugal is treated by a police service, as if foreigners were potential offenders. If a national citizen renews his or her citizenship card at the Institute of Registers and the Notary, there is no reason for a non-national citizen to have to use a police service to request or renew his or her residence permit. The problem is therefore not in the creation of a new Foreign and Asylum Service. Nothing against that. The question is whether such a measure should necessarily involve the extinction of the SEF as a security service. This is what we are called upon to debate: if the Internal Security Act should be amended, with the sole objective of ending the SEF, and if there are valid reasons to extinguish the SEF in the circumstances, in the time and manner in which the Government intends to do so. The Internal Security Law that we have today well deserved a discussion and a profound reformulation. It made sense to discuss the multiplication and overlap of coordination structures which make it impossible for any coordination worthy of that name. It made sense to discuss whether there should be the post of Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, with the exorbitant powers assigned to him. It made sense to discuss the logic of having two overlapping security forces, being one of a civil nature and another of a military nature, when the functions of both are identical. There was much to discuss about the Internal Security Law, but today's discussion is limited to the extinction of the SEF and, on that, it should be said, clearly: the moment chosen by the Government to propose this option could not be worse. The Government may say that it was already in its programme to separate the police from the administrative functions of foreigners, but not only is it not in the Government's programme to extinguish the SEF, such as this process at the time it arises, it cannot fail to be seen as a flight forward, in the face of the difficulties that the Government has faced, following a horrible crime committed in the premises and by elements of the SEF. To deny this reality is to try « to cover the sun with the sieve ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u80	No one believes that the government would move towards the extinction of the SEF if this crime had not been committed and if there had not been dramatic errors in the political management of this process. But by moving forward to extinction, the government is putting the consequences of the crime on a whole institution and on all the elements that integrate it, and that generalisation is not fair. In the face of a horrible crime, rigorous investigation, condemnation of those responsible and organisational measures are required to ensure that nothing like this will happen again. But to extinguish a police force as a result of a crime committed by its elements is to treat this force as if it were, itself, the perpetrator of the crime, and that is not fair. The Minister will say that this is not the case and that the Government has the highest regard for the elements of the SEF, which, with professionalism and dedication, have provided relevant services to the country. Only that the government's decision is to extinguish the SEF, things are what they are and not what they say about them. The question, however, is not only that of the moment when this extinction is decided, but also whether there are sufficient reasons to assume that, from the distribution of SEF police functions by three separate security forces, there will be gains for internal security, and these reasons are not demonstrated. The SEF has been developing its activity for 35 years. It has its own experience as a result of its action on the ground, with specific tasks and distinct from those belonging to other security forces and services. It has a specific and relevant role in international cooperation. It has its own identity and experience of intervention in such complex areas as combating illegal immigration networks or trafficking in human beings. It has a specific training, other than that which is provided to the security forces and services where its staff will have to split up. The difficulties with which the SEF has been debating over the years stem largely from a lack of human resources, whose unanimous recognition attests to the importance of its mission. All of us in this House have said, many years ago, that it is necessary to provide the SEF with more human and material resources and today we are discussing whether we should extinguish it. It proposes that the SEF professionals with police functions be divided by three security forces. It happens, as no one does not know, that the nature of these forces reflects enormous differences as to its nature and the status of its professionals. The problem, however, is far from statutory or socio-professional. The problem is whether, knowing the difficulties affecting the security forces and services to ensure the multiplicity of functions they are in charge, there will be conditions so that the elements of the SEF integrated in these forces can ensure the degree of specialization that currently differentiates them. Doubts about the gains of the option proposed by the Government in the field of internal security are many are reasonable and legitimate. Advanceing without measurement may have negative consequences that will be very difficult to repair. This option to extinguish the SEF as an avulse measure, in a typical flight action forward, without equating the national internal security structure globally and without previously measuring all the difficulties resulting from this process, is thus at risk of creating instability situations at the level of the various forces and services involved and causing serious damage to the country in relation to internal security. The Government which therefore creates the Foreign and Asylum Service — that is, in our view, is not rebuttable — that withdrawing the non-police functions from the SEF, which should not be from its competence. At that, the PCP will not oppose. But to extinguish the SEF, as a security service, and particularly under the conditions under which the Government proposes that this be done, will have the opposition of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u81	The floor is now also for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u82	Mr. President, Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: In 55 seconds, I just want to reiterate and reinforce a few ideas. In the face of what is a social crisis, an economic crisis, a humanitarian crisis, it is clear that policies and mechanisms must be created that comply with what is international humanitarian law. And so here concerns this transfer of action, in relation to migrants, to criminal police. We understand that there is a discussion on this subject that still needs to be done. Well, it creates the SEA, but the SEA needs an integrated path, an integrated political vision, and it will also need means to act. It is not known which means will be those that will be allocated to the SEA. in this debate, of course, we cannot forget the important fight against the scourge of trafficking in human beings, which will also need means and therefore cannot even waste the competences and expertise of the inspectors who come from the SEF. Once again, we warn: we can never take a small part in the whole, we must have an integrated view, otherwise, Minister, we would also have to bring you here a situation of the past, a year ago, in Santo Tirso. If we were to take part in the whole, we would also be here criticizing an entire police force.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u83	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u84	So, Minister, what we are calling for here is, of course, dialogue, which must be done in the field of expertise for an integrated policy in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u85	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Non-attached Member Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On a proposal from the Government today we discussed the extinction of the SEF, in a late response to the years of inaction on reports of alleged abuses by some inspectors in relation to foreigners, but also lawyers at Lisbon airport, and who were aware of the Ministry, who did nothing in good time culminating in the death of a foreign citizen. The extinction of the SEF does not solve the underlying problems. It does not solve the problems of lack of human resources, does not prevent violence and excessive use of force in criminal police bodies, in general, and unjustly sheds responsibility for what happened with Ihor Homeniuk over all the Foreign and Border Service. It was created, and well, the scale of presence prevention of lawyers at airports, yet still with failures. The Ombudsman's follow-up has not yet taken place throughout the proceedings and only contact is allowed after the conclusion of the administrative proceedings, thereby undermining the interest of the lawyer's scale. In conclusion, whatever the police are, there must be greater transparency in the process and the rights of citizens must be ensured. Remodeling such as the one proposed deserves much more in-depth and participatory reflection and debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u87	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, the word is now yours for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, what is the matter here? Today, the Government and the Minister of Internal Administration are here telling us that a police officer for foreigners is not justified. It is clear that you are coming to say this on the same day and at the same time that you are assigning to existing police officers competence in relation to foreigners. Only this was clear! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u89	It's consistency! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u90	What do we know? We know that what is not justified is to extinguish an institution with 35 years of services provided to the country, and with courage, to save the head of a minister, which we all perceive to be incompetent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u92	Say something about the method. The method is a huge mess. What does the government do? The Government, without opinions, wanted even to hide this matter from Parliament. Only at the last hour was it obliged to bring this matter to Parliament, but it would not even bring it! What the government has done is now, at the last hour, to close the work, in a hurry, without the minimum. Where is the previous study of the advantages of this solution? Where is he? Who said anything about that? Where are the opinions of the organs of the Order of Lawyers, the judiciary or any other entity? Where are the opinions that support this same proposal? Zero! Where even the report and the opinion of the 1. the Commission on a subject which obviously has constitutional implications? It doesn't look like 1. There is the Commission. Nothing! It was made in a hurry, in a way that would be a shame to any government. But of course we also realize that the Left Block, the exchange of some more things in the immigration law and immigration regime, will give the government a hand in trying to save the Minister's head. In our opinion, it's too late. And it is late because, frankly, this minister no longer counts and the way in which this reform is now being presented is little more than a stamp, a visa, a driving guide for those who no longer count on the same matter, or, if we want, a safe haven so that a new Minister of Internal Administration does not have to deal with this issue, freeing himself from the messes that have obviously begun in January when this decision was announced, an incompetence of the Minister — one among many! — to deal with the issue of the barbaric murder of Ihor Homeniuk and all that has happened. Clearly, this is the question of the method, but then there is the question of content and, as far as content is concerned, let us be clear: this is a mistake for us. And why is that a mistake? Of course, because we have lost experience and skills acquired over these 35 years. [[It's a life!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u93	We lose the experience and expertise gained and recognized from those who work in the SEF. We have lost the specialization in the development of tasks and competences which, as a general rule, have been exemplary and recognized nationally and internationally. We lost because, as it has been said—and well! — we are moving away from best European practices, having three or four different entities to deal with this issue. The general rule in Europe is that there is an entity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u94	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u95	... a point of contact and, from a European point of view and in the Schengen system, articulate preferably with a single entity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u96	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u97	It should be said and made clear that all this is done on the basis of the false argument that it will greatly improve the situation of immigrants, that it will contribute and be an enormous aid to that situation. It is clear that the argument is false and the uncertainty that has emerged since then in the SEF has originated endless queues of waiting. People never see their processes treated again, because it was all on standby. For months now the Government has left all this incompetence of the Minister, but if there were any doubts about the goodness of the Government in this matter - that is what I would also like to make very clear - it would be enough to remember that, together with a diploma from the Minister of Justice to release prisoners from jail, the government was preparing to assign immigrants a wing of the Caxias prison. The government's policy is clear, there is no doubt. That should only be clear to everyone in this House about the good intentions of the government. On the other hand, as has already been said, the government is going to hand over to the police what was done in a specialized way by a security service with competence and training, of course, to deal with these same problems. It is clear that the separation between entry control, visas, legality, networks and crime will be harmful, because every day there are police problems in this activity and, if they are outside of those who are dealing with this matter, it is clear that this will again facilitate the entry of illegals, trafficking networks, crime linked to all this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u98	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u99	It seems very obvious to me, Mrs Deputies, and all this to hand over to Mr Minister. That's all that's at stake. All of this seems very obvious to me, even because it will decrease supervision. On the other hand, there is a central issue, which has to be dealt with and on which this proposal says nothing because it was made in a hurry. It's funny even! You noticed, you didn't notice, sir. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! This proposal, which moves the law of the security forces, a law of this importance, has an exposition of reasons for a page.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u100	It's minimalist!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u101	A page! It's almost nothing, a sheet to say a few things. There was no debate, there was no justification, there was nothing in this matter. And look, Mrs Deputy, we don't even know what's going to happen to the databases because these databases, which are essential in SIS ( Schengen Information System ), the Schengen control system, are police matters. They're going to be handed over to whom? to the new service, which still does not exist, which has not been created, on which we know nothing and which I admit once again that the government does not want to bring to Parliament, why has this been the practice? Oh, my God! It cannot be because, obviously, it is a matter of a police nature, but this is not clarified in this law nor in its content. Mr President, even to conclude, I would say that we are in the face of a joke, we are in the face of an error from the point of view of content. More than one mistake, from our point of view, is an attack on national security, in relation to the protection of Portuguese and the rights of immigrants, presented here at the last hour by a Minister of Internal Administration who no longer counts for anything. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u102	Mr José Magalhães of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members : I promised you some history and here it goes. At the end of the 19th century, the control of foreigners in Portugal falls to the Administrative Inspection Police. In 1918, the Immigration Police was created, to which the Portuguese International Police succeeded in 1928, which in 1930 was placed on the dependence of the Criminal Investigation Police. In 1932, the dictatorship created the section of political and social surveillance of the Portuguese International Police, which then gave rise to the famous and left-handed State Guard and Defense Police (PVDE ), with an international section that was responsible for foreign control. In 1945, PVDE was transformed into PIDE ( International Police and State Defense ), responsible for the persecution and torture of anti-fascists, but also for immigration services and passports and others related to foreigners. With Marcelo Caetano, the DGS ( Directorate-General for Security ) was born, i.e. the same thing with another label. With 25 April, DGS was extinguished and, in the meantime, foreign control moved to the PJ and the Fiscal Guard. As soon as May, the PSP replaced the PJ that clearly did not have conditions for this and assumed the issue of passports for foreigners and others, in fact creating a Directorate for Foreign Services ( DSE ) in the general command. In 1976, the PSP DSE was restructured and became known as the Foreign Service ( SE ), with direct subordination to the Minister. In 1986, under the protection of Minister Eurico de Melo, the SE was transformed into SEF and took over border control in the Diário da República, not in fact. The function continued to be provided provisionally by the Public Prosecutor's Office because the new service had only inspectors in the role, which is something we discussed very much here in Parliament. From 1 August 1991 and not before, the SEF began operating at the various border posts, etc. I have mentioned these historical facts to draw the following conclusion: if we do not allow memory to be erased, myths fade away and we can decide clearly and on a solid ground. I started in a decree by King Charles, but he could have started before. In fact, the world already existed before the SEF existed, and it will continue to exist. What memory reveals is that, in the case of Portuguese border control, everything has become, nothing has been lost, except for the brutality of the PIDE and yet we have not escaped episodes of brutality. Therefore, it is important to point out—and this fractures the House, but still well! — that, during the cavaquist decade, the left parties waged in this House a quartile war against abuses by the SEF and the government. I accompanied the young António Costa and the youngest Vera Jardim in the battle that we fought when, in 1994, Angolan citizen Vuvu Grace and his daughter Benedicte were detained, for several days, at Lisbon Airport by order of the SEF. She wanted to join her husband, a legalized immigrant in Portugal, but she saw the authenticity of her passport in question. We have made a fierce campaign and the situation has sensitized public opinion very much. When the Prime Minister became António Guterres, we will turn to the page, but we remember very well what we had been past and what had happened. The decree that still prevails, at this time, and that establishes the Code of Genetic Service was made under the auspices of Minister Fernando Gomes. This is important to remember because we wanted to impose a distinctive brand. In 2005 and 2009, first with the Minister of State and Internal Administration ( MEAI ) António Costa and then with Dr. Rui Pereira I was able to accompany the technological and organizational shock given to the SEF. It was absolutely essential to achieve lost prestige and to provide it with a robust technological basis which, in fact, exceeded that of some existing forces and services. We had hours of party: the beginning of the PEP (Electronic Passport English ), which was an almost impossible task when we arrived; the SISone4all project, which allowed freedom of movement in the European Union to countries that had joined in 2004 ; and many others. This change continued and I am sitting next to Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa today, who sought to continue it too. We're in 2021 and it's time for a metamorphosis, as it was said. At the level of the European Union, the European Border and Coast Guard is the same as the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is Chinese, it has nothing to do with us and, therefore, it is as if nothing happened, it has expanded and sophisticated the technological and human means. The newly created asylum agency, which they do not either link to, is an excellent novelty that is based on the philosophy of separation. contrary to what the tastes of immobilism repeat, metamorphosis has advantages. I don't see the current inspectors leaving the SEF losing all their knowledge when they enter the PSP or PJ door. Please! This is a "apocalyptic-Tremendist" vision that does not correspond to anything at all, except for that which always supports the theses of those who do not want to change and which is the fear of the future, which is uncertain. The future is uncertain. « Everything is ephemeral », a member of the PSD said recently. Yes, everything is ephemeral and there is no construction of any immortal to the point of ensuring that there will still be 200 years from now. And then? Oh, my God! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the approval of this diploma, which will be a milestone, but there is much work to be done. We are sensitive to the NAP proposals as to the need for dialogue, we are sensitive to the ideas of the Left Block that we can introduce into the joint, but we are going forward, because marking steps does not lead us to any place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u104	Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed once again the possible reformulation of the Foreign and Border Service. Border control and immigration policy are an increasingly demanding process, either by increasing entry into the country because of tourism, or by increasing migratory flows, migration processes that are not, first and foremost, a problem. in this debate, it is necessary to affirm the importance of the coming and presence of immigrants, with a contribution and impact on the national economy, which, as everyone says, is positive. That is, even if a large part, but the overwhelming majority, of migrants send to the countries of origin a portion of their wages, to their families—of course, as Portuguese workers do in other countries—and even if a residual part resorts to the social support that Portuguese society attaches, as much as this costs certain retrogrades, they ensure a wealth balance that remains for the country, for social security, and that is very positive. Portugal needs a specific force to take these elements into account, but to bear in mind, firstly, that it is human beings we are talking about, all of them in a situation of particular vulnerability. The SEF is responsible for ensuring the control of persons at borders, foreigners in national territory, the prevention and combating of crime related to illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, the management of travel and identification documents for foreigners and the training of asylum applications, the safeguarding of internal security and individual rights and freedoms in the global context of migration reality. Has the SEF always fulfilled its objectives and always taken into account, in its performance, the aspects I mentioned? Certainly not. In fact, it's public not. It is public that there were actions that contradicted everything that is stipulated as the mission of the SEF, since instead of protecting the citizens, some professionals of this service had inhumane attitudes. The action against immigrants, against all those seeking work in Portugal to survive and improve their lives and theirs, as well as the increasingly demanding option of stigmatizing those who contribute their efforts to the national economy, created the favourable conditions that some might feel at ease to practice abuses and violations of the law, which must be directly removed. They must be judged and held accountable who has made mistakes, deviations from the objectives of force and crimes. We assume these responsibilities and there are criminal consequences for its authors. As regards the institution, what is needed is to ensure a civilist, competent, qualified humanist and democratic values in its missions, a force that is at the forefront of preventing terrorism and which ensures, in addition to border control, the protection and aid of citizens who are victims of international trafficking in human beings. To do this, you need to have the human, material, logistical and financial resources, corresponding to the mission assigned to you. The poor conditions of temporary boarding centres, often denounced, but never resolved, even when the detentions of migrants in these areas are prolonged for several days or weeks, are a clear example of this lack of conditions. For the Greens, there is an urgent need for serious reflection on the SEF, its means, its methods and the arrangements for monitoring it. This reflection should be integrated into a broader approach on all internal security and not only of reaction to concrete events, but can ultimately reach conclusions that force a profound reformulation or restructuring of the SEF, but not the will of the Government. We stress that more important than the change of faces will be the realization of the true immigration policy, in which international protection will be ensured to all those who need it, in particular as regards the most vulnerable, respect for human dignity and respect for human rights. And this is only possible if we train the human, technical and material services appropriate to the performance of the intended tasks, with clear and precise guidance on the mission to be carried out. The proposal we are debating today has been challenged by many of the experts on this subject, from the very beginning of the dispersion of functions by different forces, which may lead to the revival of latent conflicts, but also to the possibility of jeopardizing national security itself, for example by the dispersion of critical information by several security forces, which may also be accessible to private entities. This proposal is precipitated, mismanaged, it does not solve what is necessary and does not respond to the problems that persist. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u106	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura. It has 22 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will make a very brief statement, just to answer Mr. José Magalhães. What you have done today is absolute degradation—absolute! — an institution and professionals who work every day to ensure safety and control at the Portuguese borders. Compare these men and women, who are out there today, to the dictatorship or what happened in Portugal for many years is a shame, and you should respond today. While the honourable Member says "everything is ephemeral, and then? Oh, my God! » They are out there men and women to whom Mr. Minister has not yet told whether they will be integrated into the PSP and the GNR. The honourable Member says that everything is ephemeral, but ephemeral is the lack of supplements and career that these men will stop having from today. And it's the fault of that bench and the other one that's there, it's none of the others! As we speak of King Charles and that it is all very beautiful, we give our hands, we make a prayer and we are all together, there are men and women out there without career, without perspective and without future. That is what the Socialist Government should be concerned about. Mr. Minister no longer has time, but Mr. José Magalhães has two minutes and 43 seconds, so he could at least respond to this...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u108	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u109	I will finish, Mr. President. The honourable Member could answer this: which careers will be integrated into these men? What will your remuneration status be? What supplements are you going to have? I challenge him today to answer these questions before the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u110	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Susana Amador, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The change in the paradigm that is needed and the global pact of migration, of the United Nations, gives the body — and Portugal was the first country to implement, with the implementation of its national plan, it is to aspire to have safe, orderly, regular migrations, where immigrants should be viewed as someone who seeks new and better opportunities and who wants to make a net and positive contribution to the development of the country. And the refugee has to be seen as a beneficiary of international protection, someone who has the right to the principle of non-refoulement, not to be returned to countries where he is in danger.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u113	Therefore, these matters cannot and should not be framed in a police and security context. We welcome the fact that the Left Block clearly supports the demarcation of fields in its initiative as laid down in Article 16. the, on judicial tasks—and to place, as well, the focus on the creation of a dedicated structure, formed for the monitoring of policies relating to the regularization, entry and stay of foreign citizens in national territory. There are several positive aspects of your proposal that can be accommodated either in the organisation of the competent body on migration and asylum, or in the amendments to the Internal Security Act. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we reached the historic peak of 82, 4 million displaced in 2020, of which 26, 4 million are refugees seeking international protection. We also got to know the second National Asylum Report of 2021, an essential analysis tool to identify strategic priorities that have always allowed us to act more incisively, accurately and perfectly. That's our way. This phenomenon of migration, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not gonna stop. instead, it will tend to increase with new threats, such as climate change, systematic violations of human rights, health crises, the escalation of new armed conflicts, so it is urgent, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, to restore the integrity of the international protection regime. At the national level, we must follow the changes in progress, change the paradigm, adapt our organics, improve answers, optimize results, and we will not allow the workers of the SEF to be harmed in their rights, in their royalty, in what their acquired rights are. We have already said this and this will be preserved in the diploma to be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u115	It should be borne in mind that with regard to immigration and refugees, exclusion is always expensive, but inclusion always compensates. And that's our way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the restructuring of the SEF is a qualitative leap in this path of evolution and modernization to ensure better answers, a planned, programmatic reform that provides for clear organizational separation, and well, between police and technical and administrative functions of the SEF, a planned, legitimate option, in which democratic scrutiny will not be lacking, will not fail to continue the dialogue. We are available to deepen this debate in the Assembly of the Republic, to hold hearings, particularly for trade unions, as the NAP refers to us. We are available to operate the necessary changes, because the legal order, as José Oliveira Ascension says, is not a static and definitive structure, but an evolutionary order, a different response to each new social situation. That is the different and better answer that we are looking for, and in which we will surely be accompanied by all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u116	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the closing stage of the debate, in which the Minister of Internal Administration will accumulate the 2 minutes with the time he still has, with 3 minutes and 11 seconds. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a debate that is not of circumstance, it is an essential debate between those who see a foreign citizen or migrant as a problem, a threat, a suspect potential,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u118	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u119	... and those who pride themselves on having passed from less than 300 000 foreigners in 2013, 2014 to 660 000, in 2020,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u120	Whoever wanted to put them in Caxias was the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u121	... certainly with problems and challenges, but with positive impact on Portuguese society. Secondly, we did so, as the Annual Internal Security Report this week proved, in times when the country's security levels were higher. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u122	He's gone to make it! Tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u123	It was not in 2020, with the pandemic, it was in the last five years. The right created social instability and had standards based on fewer migrants and more crime. Now there are twice as many migrants and half the serious crime that existed when you were government. Thirdly — amazing! — it is, in fact, essential to keep the institutions working, so I wanted to pay tribute to the workers of the SEF who, in time of pandemic, ensured the control of land borders when they were restored. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to commend the SEF workers who have ensured health conditions at airports.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u124	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u125	I would like to commend the workers of the SEF who worked in the recognition of extraordinary rights to migrants in time of pandemic. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] I would like to commend the SEF workers who have created a mechanism for automatic renewal of residence permits, which since August last year has already allowed about 125,000 automatic renewals, which shuts the voice of those who have nothing to bring to this debate but the ghosts of the past to which they are seized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u126	What a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u127	That is why, yes, human resources are needed and working. About 80 inspectors are currently being trained and an external recruitment of 116 workers for migrant care areas is being completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u128	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u129	This never happened — zero! — during the time of right-wing governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u130	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u131	Now, finally, there is recourse to external procurement to strengthen means. That is what silences the voice of those who live tied to the past and nothing has to bring to this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u132	Don't shut up, no! You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u133	This is a subject on which some have come to say that it arose here by surprise, as if nothing, never had been discussed! The Supreme Council of Internal Security met in January; the whole timetable was established until April;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u134	It was January, it was April, it was December! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u135	... a resolution of the Council of Ministers was adopted with the policy guidelines; there were several parliamentary debates, either in plenary or in committee, on this matter; and here we are implementing the legislative dimension. Today, it was the day of « cotton proof », which separates who is attached to « Loureiro Days model »...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u136	Who's holding on to the chair!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u137	There's only one grab here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u138	...and still want to deepen it, transforming the SEF into a security force, into a security force. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the model that is contrary to the Government's programme in the elections they have lost, in the elections that put them in the opposition. That is why, in order to achieve our commitment to the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u139	Minister, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u140	... with all the hearing, with all the debate in the specialty, with all the improvement that is necessary, we will not be caught up in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u141	Praise the SEF and then extinguish it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u142	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u143	A proud country for welcoming migrants and a proud country of its humanist condition will be, with safe borders, to build the paths of the future! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u144	They can't! They can't even scream!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u145	I hope we're all calmer. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is therefore closed, and we shall therefore proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No 629 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the PCP, PS, CH, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN ) — To regret the death of João Figueiredo. I would like to point out that they are present in the galleries, Pedro Figueiredo, his brother, and Maria do Mar Figueiredo Rocha, his niece. You have the floor to Mr. Secretary Diogo León to proceed with the reading of the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last June 30, João Figueiredo, member of the European Court of Auditors. Born in Angola in 1955, João Alexandre Tavares Gonçalves de Figueiredo graduated in Law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon, in 1978, starting a long career of public service, from technical functions, as a senior technician of the Public Administration, to leading positions, such as as head of division, director of services and Deputy Director-General of the Institute of Social Integration of the Ministry of Justice, between 1983 and 1991, of which he was President between 1999 and 2001, and also from the Administration and Public Service Office and the Institute of Social Action of Macao, from the Directorate-General of Customs and Special Taxes on the Consumption of the Ministry of Finance and the Public Administration or from the Prisons, from which he was Director-General between 2001 and 2002. He also served as Head of the Office of the Deputy Secretary of State of the Minister of Justice, in the XII Constitutional Government ( 1991 to 1995 ) and the Minister of Justice, in the XIII Constitutional Government ( 1995 to 1999 ), and between 2005 and 2008, as Secretary of State of the XVII Constitutional Government. He was, since June 2008, Judge Counsellor of the Court of Auditors, standing out for his human and intellectual qualities and above all for his righteousness. Specializing in the ethics and deontology of the public service and developing extensive and proven work in the areas of financial control, efficiency and legality of the acts of the Public Administration, in whose modernization and reform he committed, João Figueiredo transites to the European Court of Auditors in October 2016, an institution in which he was representing Portugal with unquestionable brio and competence. As the Government and the President of the Republic, John Figueiredo, of whose memory he respects, already misses. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of John Figueiredo, conveying to his family and friends, and to the European Court of Auditors the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The 630 / XIV / 2 Voting Project follows. a ( submitted by PS ) — regretting the death of Mr. Prof. Dr. Antonio Coimbra de Matos. He was an illustrious psychiatrist and a rare man, a man who had in his life all the ways to love. Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor to do her favour in reading the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died on July 1, at the age of 91, doctor and professor Antonio Coimbra de Matos, “unquestionable figure of mental health. ” António Coimbra de Matos was born on December 20, 1929, natural of Lixa, in Felgueeiras, he was trained in Medicine in Porto, but it was in Lisbon that he developed his career that was based on three axes, summarized by his own :‘I did a psychiatrist, not to have to go to the psychiatrist; psychoanalyst, looking to understand me; teacher, with the purpose of learning’. He specialized in psychiatry in 1959, directed the Child and Youth Mental Health Center and the Department of Pedopsychiatry of the Hospital of D. Estefânia, where he did his hospital work until he retired. In 1982, he began his teaching career at the Faculty of Psychology and Education of the University of Lisbon, becoming an associate professor at the Higher Institute of Applied Psychology ( ISPA ), being Doctor Honoris Causa since 2012. More than physician, António Coimbra de Matos sought to invest in the teaching and training of new psychoanalysts, making the learning space a space of creativity, affections and sharing. In addition to writing several articles and books, António Coimbra de Matos was the founder and president of various scientific societies, namely the Portuguese Psychosomatic Society, the Portuguese Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy Association and also the College of Children's Psychiatry and Adolescents of the Order of Physicians. In the last years of his life, he has developed his activity in the Portuguese Society of Psychoanalysis (SPP), as a didactic analyst and chairman of the teaching committee. More than doctor and teacher, António Coimbra de Matos sought to invest in the teaching and training of new psychoanalysts and promote the scientific work developed by SPP, having received several awards, especially international, such as the Distinguished Psychoanalytic Educator Award 2012. António Coimbra de Matos leaves a remarkable legacy and a message of hope in humanity, having marked countless generations of students, colleagues and readers of his vast work. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret for the death of Prof. António Coimbra de Matos, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u149	I would like to point out that you are present in the galleries, your wife, Ms. Teresa Mota Coimbra de Matos, and the children, José Mota Coimbra de Matos and Manuel Coimbra de Matos Machado. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No 634 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PCP ) — regretting the death of Rogério Cação. They are present in the Inês Cation galleries and your husband. For the reading of the draft vote, Mr. Secretary Diogo León has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: "Rogério Manuel Dias Cação died last July 6, at the age of 65. His life, since youth, gives us the testimony of a remarkable course of civic, political and social intervention, of delivery and commitment to the values of freedom, democracy, justice and social progress and the promotion of culture. Rogério Cação devoted his whole life to the struggle for the development and improvement of the living conditions of the people of his council, Peniche, and his personality will forever be associated with the constant, consequent and coherent defense of the values of April. Graduated in Pedagogy and Anthropology, he was a professor of Special Education. For more than 40 years, he has integrated the lists of the FEPU, APU and CDU, having been a member of the Municipal Assembly of Peniche for several mandates, the Mayor of the Municipal Chamber of Peniche between 1986 and 1990 and from 2017 to the present. He was President of the Municipal Assembly of Peniche between 2005 and 2012. The life of Rogério Cação is a reference and an example of dedication to the most noble causes of civic and political intervention, particularly in the social area and the cooperative movement, having assumed the highest responsibilities in numerous local and national structures until the end of their lives. He was President of the Directorate of CERCIPIENICHE, President of ADEPE - Association for the Development of Peniche, President of the Bureau of the General Assembly of ACOMPANHA - Cooperative of Social Solidarity, President of CONFECOOP, Vice-President of FENACERCI, Member of the National Council for Education, Member of the Economic and Social Council, Vice-President of the Portuguese Confederation of Social Economy. He was thanked with the Order of Freedom Command in 2010. The best way to honor the memory and life of Rogério Cação will be to give continuity to the values and ideals for which he fought his whole life. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Rogério Cação and addresses the family, friends and compañeros de combato the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u151	We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will now vote on the deliberative part of the Vote Project No 633 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities ) — Concern about the impasse in the return to negotiations to resolve the status of Western Sahara. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEN, the IL, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 7 PS (Ana Passos, Vasconcelos Bachelor, Bruno Aragon, Cláudia Santos, Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha and Pedro Delgado Alves) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u152	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u153	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u154	Mr President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u155	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Lara Martinho is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u156	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u157	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u158	Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u159	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u160	Mr President, I will also announce that I will make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u161	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1211 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Reduction of the VAT of medical veterinary acts. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] In general, the Proposal for a Law No 94 / XIV / 2 should be voted on. a ( GOV ) — Review of the Securities Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the IL were adopted against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The general vote on the Bill No 97 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Framework Law of the Foundations. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We shall vote on an application by the PS, with permission from the Government, to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a vote of 60 days from the Proposal for a Law No 99 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1, which aims to empower the competition authorities of the Member States to apply the law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We now generally vote for Law No 100 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the requirements for access and exercise of the activity of technicians of the Energy Certification System of Buildings. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] I wonder if we can vote on this proposal in the speciality and in the overall final vote together. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, then we shall vote, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 100 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1394 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the report on Portugal in the European Union 2020 ». [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PCP, ENP and CH and abstentions from BE, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We then generally vote for Law No 103 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System and the regime applicable to the organisation and functioning of the courts. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 104 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Reform of security forces and services engaged in internal security activities within the framework of the rehabilitation of the competences of the Foreign and Border Service. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE and PAN.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 905 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Amendments to Articles 12 are made. it's 13. the Law No 53 / 2008 of 29 August approving the Internal Security Act. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote in favour of the CH and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We are now voting on a request by BE for a discharge from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 907 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Approves the organic of the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum, IP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on a request by the PSD for a discharge from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote of 60 days from the Bill No 908 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 252/2000 of 16 October adopting the Organic Law of the Foreign and Border Service. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Both bills then go down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1063 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — urgent decommissioning of the Tavira Bar and the access channels to the ports of Santa Luzia and Cabanas. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PAN and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1225 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a dredging plan for the Algarve region. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u162	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u163	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u164	Mr President, I would like to inform the Bureau that we are going to make a statement of vote on this draft resolution and the previous one.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u165	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 1358 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — The creation of a national information campaign for the vote of migrants in the elections. The PCP requirement, we will vote separately on the various points of this draft resolution. Let us start by voting on point 1. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the CH.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] Finally, we are voting on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and CHe abstains from the PCP and the ENP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1226 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government monitor the economic and social response to the clothing, textile, footwear and fashion ecosystem within the framework of the Portugal Recovery and Resilience Plan and the European Reindustrialisation Plan. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV and IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1247 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Concessions of the exploitation of municipal networks of low voltage electricity distribution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1337 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the Government to reassess the concession of a small hydroelectric power plant ( PCH ) in Vale das Botas. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP and the ENP.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1243 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By building a « academic village » in the Higher School of Design, Management and Technology of the Production of Aveiro - North. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1281 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Guarantee for a fair performance assessment in public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u166	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u167	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u168	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that the NAP will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u169	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolutions Nos 951 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Measures to prevent and combat domestic violence and 1058 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 62 / 2019 and ensure the adoption of a code of conduct adapted to the Istanbul Convention, with a view to adequate news coverage of cases of domestic violence and to prevent an expected contagion effect. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Mr Diogo Leon has the floor to give us two opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u170	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Administrative Court of Lisbon - Organic Unit 3, Case No. 591 / 21.2BELSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves ( PS ) to make a statement in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u171	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You may proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u172	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I am now announcing an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the waiver of the mandate of Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, of the Socialist Party, elected by the Leiria electoral circle, being replaced by Joël Bouça Gomes, from 12 July 2021 inclusive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u173	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Secretary will also announce some legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u174	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1399 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 1400 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1401 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 1402 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1403 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. a If you will excuse me, Mr President, I also announce that you were present at today's session by video conference. Members Paulo Porto and Pedro Cegonho, PS, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, IL, Emília Cerqueira, PSD, and Diana Ferreira, PCP. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-09.u175	Mrs. Members, the next plenary meeting will be on 20 July at 3 p.m. and the first item is a fixation required by the IL, in which draft Law No 890 / XIV / 2 will be discussed together. a (IL) — Protects freedom of expression online, 884 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Develops the scheme of Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, providing support to private entities that carry out fact-finding and quality stamp award activities, 888 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Remove from Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May ( Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age ), the creation of the concept of misinformation and the forecast of state support and incentives for the allocation of quality stamps to media bodies and 914 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Amended Act No 27 / 2021 of 17 May adopting the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. In the end, there will be votes. I wish everyone a good Friday and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 7 minutes.]]
