ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u1	I declare open the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLVII Anniversary of 25 April 1974. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mr President of the Republic, Your Excellency, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs and Mr Presidents of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Court of Auditors, General Ramalho Eanes, Dr. Manuela Eanes, Ms. and Mrs. Members of the Government, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, Mrs. and Mrs. Vice-Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic and Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, Attorney-General of the Republic, Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces, Ombudsman, Representatives of the Republic for the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, Mr. President of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, Ms. Vice-President of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, Mr. President of the Regional Government of the Azores, Mr. President of the CDS-PP, Mrs. State Councillors, Mr. Chiefs of the Army, Army and Air Force Staff, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Presidents of the Economic and Social Council, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias, Mr. Commander-General of the Republican National Guard, Mr. National Director of the Public Security Police, Ms. Secretary-General of the CGTP-IN, Mr. Under-Secretary-General of the UGT, Mr. Vice-President of the Confederation of Commerce and Services of Portugal, Mr. President of the Portuguese Episcopal Conference, Eminence, Illustre Representatives of the Association 25 April, Mr. Apostolic Nuncio, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, and in his representation, Ms. and Mrs. Guests, My Ladies and Gentlemen, Portuguese and Portuguese: A year later, and in the heat of a severe third wave of the pandemic, whose fight came to determine the widespread confinement of the country, with the social and economic consequences we all know, but now with the horizon of renewed hope that the different vaccines came to bring, the Assembly of the Republic again meets in solemn session to mark another anniversary of 25 April 1974. This was a year of combat, in which health professionals and all who allowed the country not to stop deserve national recognition. It was a year with many victims until yesterday 16 957 that we paid tribute to this Assembly of the Republic three days ago. We are, for the second time, with a small number of Members in this Chamber — many are accompanying us from their offices, in line with what has happened in recent months in Parliament's plenary sessions — and a small number of guests, representing the main institutions of the Portuguese State and Portuguese society, whose presence I warmly welcome. And, of course, with the honorable presence of His Excellency the President of the Republic, 47 days after solemnly taking possession before the Assembly of the Republic, thus initiating its second term. Mr President of the Republic, My Ladies and gentlemen : Forty-seven is also the number of years of freedom and democracy. A very short period, when compared with the almost 900 years of history we have been having from the Nation, but still sufficient for it to have achieved significant progress and progress in the field of fundamental rights and individual freedoms, in the social and economic fields and, no less relevant, at the political level. When we look at the infrastructure that has been done in recent decades, in social housing, in electrification, in water supply and sanitation, on the highway, in the modernization of various areas of Public Administration, when we remember the creation of the National Health and Social Security Service, when we stop in the evolution of the school park, from preschool to higher education, when we see the evolution that has taken place in the qualification of people, companies and territories, or when we look at the achievements of Portuguese science, we conclude that the achievements of democracy are remarkable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is still much to be done, but much substantial has been achieved. There are always unsatisfactory objectives, such as those of better justice, more equal opportunities and strong social solidarity. It is less than half a century that has transformed Portugal, which has brought us to the country that we are, to the democratic country that is open to the world. A country that today exercises the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in times of threats to health and peace on our continent, and exercises this responsibility with recognition and prestige. I would also like to mention on this day all those who, from such distant and almost incompatible ideological projects, have been able to converge essentially, developing and approving the ambitious social, economic and political programme that was the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976, whose entry into force happened on this day, exactly 45 years ago. [[Greetings from the PS and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] A Constitution that made possible a great multitude of government solutions and, more than anything else, a Constitution that ensured political stability. That is the proof of the time the Constitution has been able to resist. It is this lesson, full of today, and the historical experience of the Constituent Assembly, which today, in a pandemic framework, I want and must remember, affirming the importance of all being part of the solution. Representing the diversity and plurality of Portuguese society, it is our obligation to honour the legacy of the Constitutions and the thirteen legislatures that have followed, overcoming blockades and translating into law the solutions to the problems of the country and to the many, and increasingly demanding, challenges that we face and that we will still have ahead. Only in this way will we be able to deepen our democracy. in these 47 years Portugal has been able to become a consolidated democracy, a stable regime, in the institutional design that the 1976 Constitution has enshrined. in these 47 years we have reached a robust social state and important levels of social and economic progress. In 47 years we face successive financial and budgetary crises, institutional crises, migration crises, the climate crisis that will take decades to overcome or the pandemic crisis that we are still going through, and in all, democracy was fundamental to confront and overcome them. That's all we've achieved. What had certainly been expected for 47 years is that today, in the face of all threats to our lives and our life in society, the democratically elected representatives of the Portuguese and Portuguese in the Assembly of the Republic could once again converge on what is strictly essential, debating in Parliament concrete answers and solutions to the country's specific problems and needs, honoring the representative democracy that we are, who has always managed to overcome the enormous crises by which it has passed, within the limits of the Constitution and in the light of the rule of law. The experience of 47 years of representative democracy tells us that there is no crisis that is insurmountable by Parliament and our political system. It also confirms that there is no democracy without Parliament and that there is no Parliament without parties. Strong democracies have strong parliaments and parties that can represent and synthesize the multiple interests of society, in a balance of wills, in particular between the majority and respect for minorities. This is also where the strength of democracy lies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another teaching that we have withdrawn from these 47 years is also that Portugal would be quite different today without the contribution of local authorities to the realization of April and democracy, which is also due much to the development that the country has known in recent decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it was more than a million Portuguese and Portuguese that took care of the public thing, in the assemblies of the parish, in the assemblies of the parish, in the chambers and in the municipal assemblies, in a self-denial way, in many cases voluntarily, beating themselves to the satisfaction of the needs of their populations, their territories, their customs and traditions. in the year in which an authentic cycle ends and in which another begins here I want to leave a word of appreciation for all the country's authorships, which help to build the necessary consensus for the progress of all those who represent. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]] Mr. President of the Republic, My Ladies and gentlemen : It was 47 years ago that Portugal came out of the shadow of 48 years of oppression that morning. The April Revolution has brought us countless achievements, and although it has put an end to the grossing illiteracy to which, until then, it has not yet managed to eradicate in Portugal the ideas and values that have characterized that black period of our history, many of them have fallen asleep since then. One of the great virtues of democracy and freedom is to allow coexistence among all political creeds, including anti-democratics. in social networks, promoters of false news, hatred, misinformation, slander, lies, count for many hundreds and sometimes reach millions of targets. The comment boxes of some organs, said, of social communication are an open drain. This is not just a national reality, quite the contrary. It is enough to look at what is going on in this outside Europe — even in such close countries as Spain, France or Italy — to realize that this movement is making its way and gradually weakening democracy, the rule of law and the conviction for fundamental values that are ours. See also what happened in the United States of America, with the inconceivable episode of the invasion of the Capitol, the headquarters of the Congress, supported — or at least tolerated — at the highest level. Where in Europe and the world they seemed to flourish democracies, they are threatened, in a historical retreat that brings us closer to the dark reality of a past where no one should want to return. They are signs of regression, as Pope Francis identifies them, which alerts us to new forms of selfishness and loss of social sense, masked by a supposed defense of national interests. It is not easy to fight the simplistic speech of anti-democratics. It's not easy to fight misinformation, lies, fear. But I know, however, that April democracy is resilient enough to resist this investment and robust enough to fight it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this battle, which is the battle for our survival as an open, tolerant and inclusive society, it is up to us, Democrats, a fundamental role. It's a fight in which we're all few. A fight in which democratic parties are fundamental. They are part of the wall that must defend us from the advances of intolerance, xenophobia and hatred. A fight in which strengthening the rule of law and accountability of all actors are absolutely essential. A fight in which free and credible media is essential, free and credible, capable of reporting facts, indeed, where freedom of expression cannot be confused with the expression without rules, which, by throwing the hand of anonymity, is more ambitious than insult, offense and injury. Where the fight against the so-called 'politically correct' often conceals welcome from the times of impunity of domestic violence, racial supremacy, homophobia, contempt for the dignity and individuality of others. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Mr President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen : in this solemn session it could not fail to remember the colonial wars that started in 1961 60 years ago, and to which the April Revolution came an end. To do this today is a political, moral and conscientious imperative, recalling that, in the long period of 13 years of wars, thousands of lives, Portuguese and Africans have been lost, along with a track of unparalleled destruction, even of societies, which is still very visible today. There is, however, another facet of these long years: that of wasted time, that of wasted opportunity. Thirteen long years that could have been of political, social and economic gain, they would have been of democratic openness to the regime and of political negotiation. Thirteen long years could have changed the course of our history and the history of our brothers' countries, if their independence had arrived earlier and, with it, the right to self-determination, the right to freedom. It's been devastating years for all of us. A devastation that could have been avoided, tells us history. The memory of the year 1961 is there to prove it. And seven years later, the year 1968 was once again a missed opportunity. Sixty years back, there are still well present marks of this past, such as xenophobic and racist discourses in some fringes of society or some social representations of the colonial period, sign of open wounds, or, better, of wounds not yet completely healed. We cannot ignore these signs. to Parliament is a role of the greatest relevance in the long journey that is still to be taken, revisiting this period in the light of democratic values, discussing the memory of colonialism and, 47 years later, reflecting on the colonial presence in Africa. Mr President of the Republic, My Ladies and gentlemen : for democracy, the Assembly of the Republic assumes an irreplaceable role, even by the centrality it holds in the Portuguese political system, given that it is here, and only here, that the plurality of wills of all Portuguese and all Portuguese is represented. It is in the Assembly of the Republic that structural laws for the country are approved. This is where the government's action is transparently monitored and scrutinized on a daily basis. This is where the main national political debates take place. Everything I have just referred to points to us for the fulfilment of the constitutional duties of the Assembly of the Republic. But in a modern Parliament as we expect more. You need more. There is a need for greater involvement with citizens, a progressive approach to citizens, an approach to electors and voters in the dual sense. We must all be aware of this, starting with all of us, that we serve the Portuguese and Portuguese in this House, by the work and example, by being by far the most transparent, the most scrutinyable, the most scrutinyable in all the institutions. We must be proud to be Members, to serve the Republic, democracy and Portugal. [[Congratulations from the PS, from the PSD and from the BE Member José Manuel Pureza.]] In the near future, we will make more aware of the need to reverse the tendency of distance between citizens and institutions and sensitive to the drive of society, especially the younger ones, whose first concerns are today in the way we care for the planet. I am referring to the House of Parliament — the interpretative centre of the Assembly of the Republic, whose opening, after a troubled administrative process, is expected shortly, even during this Parliament and, to this extent, even before we celebrate the 50 years of the Constitution. I refer to the Youth Parliament programme, which was born in 1995 by the impulse of former Presidents Barbosa de Melo and Almeida Santos, with the aim of stimulating the taste for civic and political participation and, above all, promoting respect for democratic debate and for the diversity of opinions, which involved more than 1000 schools in the past edition. A record number that attests to the relevance of this true programme of learning of democracy and that it calls us to the importance of political debate, which is fundamental to bringing the younger ones closer to public participation and to the thing and to the public cause, attesting the importance of political debate to be done beyond party youth: at home, in schools, as we have motivating examples in northern Europe. All of this presents challenges for Parliament, I know, but they are challenges in which Parliament will be stronger, stronger and stronger, challenges, indeed, that the Assembly of the Republic has been able to overcome since its birth, in a process of continuous and successful consolidation. First, the challenge of commitment, building the consensus necessary to ensure support for governments and policies that enable the development of the country, especially in times of serious crisis. Secondly, the legislative challenge, building the democratic building and the structural laws of democracy. in this particular, I must refer to the legislation that has allowed us to state the rule of law that we are, an never exhausted work, which lacks improvement and daily improvement. The holders of public and political positions must participate and decide to improve their own legislation on the basis of the amendments implemented in 2019. But, attention: there are no owners of transparency, nor is it acceptable any logic that makes the electors, the judicial magistrates, the prosecutors, as suspects at the start. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, that of supervision, following developments in the parliaments of the old democracies, creating instruments for effective government control, in particular enhancing the role of oppositions. Finally, the already mentioned challenge of openness to society. And it is at this point that the Assembly of the Republic is called upon to hold events or personalities that help us to better understand the country we are and that we want to be. It is, for example, in this context that Parliament has already made a commitment to honor and perpetuate the memory of imparable figures in our history, such as Aristides de Sousa Mendes or Eça de Queiroz, in order to grant them the honours of National Pantheon. It is also in this context that Parliament has for several months been celebrating the Bicentennial of Portuguese Constitutionalism and of the Liberal Revolution that is at its origin, and where we can also find the origins of our political system. That is also why we are meeting here today on 25 April. Celebrating the past, but with eyes in the future. Waiting for younger generations to find in these examples, and on 25 April in particular, inspiration for what they may be. Assuming that the freedom that everyone enjoys must be defended daily with the necessary vigor, so that they are involved with the public cause, with the community, helping to make this country better and better every day, a more just, freer and more democratic country to which they have contributed so many discreet, civil and military heroes, many anonymous, who, before April, have fought in the most diverse ways, against dictatorship, helping to bring down the dictatorial regime of the New State. The generations that made April 25 and built the Constitution are, of course, disappearing. We are confident that younger people will be able to defend the essential values of freedom, equal opportunities and social solidarity. It is this country and this democracy that we celebrate today, with the same conviction and determination with which 47 years ago the Captains of April, represented here by the Association of April 25, addressed a very, very special greeting. [[PS, PSD, BE, PCP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Country of a Revolution that does not have owners, because those who participated in the liberation of the Country followed several generations that helped build the democratic Portugal in which we live. A Revolution that, however, has authors: the Armed Forces Movement and the thousands of Portuguese who fought against dictatorship and war for many years. Thank you very much. Long live April 25th! April 25th always! Long live Portugal! [[PSP, standing, BE, PCP, PSP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will move on to the stage of the speeches by the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the only representatives of the party. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u2	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Government, Distinguished Guests, Mrs. Members: Soon in the afternoon, the Liberals will be on Freedom Avenue celebrating April 25. We want to celebrate the date when a dictatorship fell from Portugal that made Portugal a country that denied all liberal values. A country without political freedom, in which dissenting voices were persecuted and imprisoned. A country without social freedom, in which individual choices were a cause of scandal or repression. A country without economic freedom, conditioned to more and less competition. We want to celebrate a date no one can afford. The sectarian left, from the height of its moral and intellectual arrogance, thinks she is a woman of April 25th. And the ambiguous right allows for lack of appearance. The Liberal Initiative says 'present'! Soon in the afternoon, the Liberals will celebrate April 25, because on that day we were given an opportunity to create a different country. Forty-seven years later we haven't been able to take advantage of it yet. More and more Portuguese are discredited in democracy and distrust freedom. The poorest feel that the prosperity they were afflicted with was an illusion. They are right: the insistence in decades of policies to put the state at the center of everything left Portugal in the tail of Europe. Younger ones feel the despair of not seeing opportunities to build a dignified life in Portugal. You are right: there are few opportunities for those who do not have the right party card and the average wages are getting closer to the minimum wage. Portuguese of all ages feel that the system is failing them. They are right: no one is held responsible for acts of incompetence, negligence or sympathy, while justice is slow and always seems to be with the powerful. They are right: the parties of custom divide between themselves small and great powers, so attractive in times of financial mana in Europe, and run away from the scrutiny whenever they can. They are right: universal access to health is only universal access to endless waiting lists and education, which should be the main social elevator, has become a bureaucracy promoting mediocrity. They are right: there are billions to bury in TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), but « here d’ El-Rei » that there is no money when it comes to the essential functions of the State or to lower the record level of taxes. We've been in this for decades and the Portuguese realize that we won't have different results if we insist on the same recipes. So when they say "now it is, when the pandemic passes", "now it is, when the bazouca comes," the Portuguese don't believe and think there has to be another way. They are right: there is another way, that path is liberalism. Soon in the afternoon, the Liberals will be on Freedom Avenue celebrating April 25. Liberals will be on Avenue, with the joy of reconquered freedom. The sectarian left is sad. Liberals will be on Avenue, with a sense of demand as to the future of our democracy. The sectarian left resigns. Liberals will be on Avenue, opening up to all those who would never return to the past of the dictatorship. The sectarian left excludes. There could be no greater contrast between the joy, the demand and the openness of the liberals and the sadness, the resignation and the exclusion of the left sectarian. The liberals, with their eyes placed in the future; the sectarian left, gripped to the past. Soon in the afternoon, the Liberals will be on Avenida da Liberdade celebrating April 25 with their eyes placed in the future of a better Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u3	Mr André Ventura has the floor now. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u4	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the red nails should be replaced by black nails, because it is the mourning of our democracy that we should be celebrating. After 47 years, we celebrate freedom, but within two hours, the country will close everything, from north to south — restaurants, cafes, bars. Everything that should be open will close on the day of freedom, within two hours, in the country that has less supported businesses, entrepreneurs and families. While, in this House, the Portuguese see freedom to be celebrated, they also see their business and their lives, outside, to be closed by governments without criteria, with absurd measures and no meaning to those who are suffering. We were the least supportive country in the European Union, but we had money for everything, even to pay vital subsidies to the politicians who are in prison. But we never had money to support those who suffered and continue to suffer! In 47 years of April, we are a country of enormous contradictions, which beats in the chest when someone, in the United States, dies at the hands of the police, but which forgets the elderly who, every day, have no money to pay for consultations and those who die at the hands of a health system that doesn't work. If I may, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, if we have to remember the colonial war, we should also, in shame, remind the thousands of ex-combatants who continue to be derailed by a state that treats them as bandits and has forgotten their history. We are a country of contradictions, who continues to beat his hand in his chest by someone who dies out there, but forgets those who, every day, lose their lives in the hands of a state that is no longer worth them! in the 47 years of April, we went down on the ranking of corruption and we all saw — no one can say that you haven't seen — a court to whiten corruption as never before has been bleached, saying that illegal money doesn't even have to be declared, which is the same as saying: "You work, pay and the others, who don't want to do anything, continue to benefit! Do not keep on seeking. ” It is a country of contradictions, in which we give everything to those who don't want to do anything and continue to tax those who work, alongside whom we should be, and who support this country. We descend on the ranking of corruption, with a government that wants to increasingly control justice, such as whitening the powerful who corrupt, attacking the opponents and pursuing opposition. There we will be to resist, because, in the 47 years of April, we cannot forget a democracy that deteriorates, which is losing quality. And so, in a newspaper this week, it was said that only 10% believe in full democracy. Great April they gave us! Great revolution that has passed on to us! at the end of 47 years, we have a country that no longer believes and that already wants much more than that morning of April. That's what we should remember! Half of the country thinks today we are worse than before April 25. How is it possible that such glorious Revolution of the Claws, the glorious morning that they gave us, after all, be half the ignored country, saying that today is worse than it was? Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister : Portugal was overcome by countries which entered the European Union in 2004. In 2004! We entered in 1986 and here we were given April: Slovenia, Lithuania, Cyprus and Malta exceeded Portugal in GDP (gross domestic product) per capita. The word that should be here today is « shame». It is shameful to be overcome by countries which, a few years ago, had no train line! We now say: « April, April, April», but what April? When wages come down, when young people emigrate, when corrupt politicians are at ease on the street, when we can't even achieve the tiniest of our aspirations, which April can give to the future? I shall end, Mr President, with great respect for all those who have done April, for all those who have allowed democracy to exist today. [[Check it out!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u5	I remember that the first password of the April Revolution was the music and after the farewell. in this music, it was said that if it is true that I wanted to know who I am and what I do here, I also want to know who abandoned me and what I forgot. in the 47 years of April, we should remember all the Portuguese we left, all the Portuguese we forgot and, instead of these red nails, we should promise them dignity, work, honour and future. This is what this country has lost for a long time and only we can recover! No, we won't be on the parade this afternoon on Freedom Avenue, because my only parade is next to the Portuguese who want a better life. It is in this parade that I will take part and it is for this parade that we will always be summoned. April 25th always, but we need another revolution in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u6	Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Greens. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u7	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. Deputies, Valerosos Capitães de Abril, Sr.as e Sr. Guests: « I shall not die without knowing/ what the colour of freedom». It is of colour, joy, party, peace that we speak of when we speak of April. On April 25, we commemorate the end of grayism, silence, bite, hunger, ignorance. Today, we are once again celebrating on the street, together with those who fought for the conquest of freedom, who gave us back our voice, who put in our hands the strength of the fight for poverty, for equality of rights, for the search for social justice and for the protection and protection of natural resources. Today, here and on the streets of the whole country, once again, we have seen freedom to escape from our fingers this past year, the red of the nail raised to the sky serves to remind us of this strength that was given to us 47 years ago and, from the nail to the top, we will not allow it to be taken back. We must continue to colour the future, with all that is yet to be done. We continue to color the days of children and young people who saw their games, learning and interrupted development. We have the responsibility to return the wind to their faces, smiles and hope with a quality public school, where equal opportunities are the rule of gold. We continue to color the days with a robust, efficient National Health Service, with access to primary care throughout the territory, with more professionals, whom we once again thank for delivery, effort and efficiency. We continue to color the days with more and better mobility, with a rail network throughout the territory, with more and better public transport, at affordable prices, without architectural barriers. We continue to color the days with respect for workers' rights, with the defense of jobs, fighting redundancies, giving support to those who need them, respecting the rights to rest, care for the family and leisure. We continue to color the days guaranteeing the right to justice, providing it with more human and technical means, making it accessible to all, combating corruption and responding to all those who rightly call for the criminalization of illicit or unjustified enrichment, both those who have political intervention, and those who move in the corridors of economic activity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Jorge de Sena, in his poem, gave voice to all the voices that demanded the urgency of overcoming this outdated system, which oppressed and embarrassed us as a people: « I can only be/ from this land in which I was born. / Although the world belongs/and always the truth prevails, / which will be free here, / I will not die without knowing. Do not keep on seeking. ” from this strength of those who did not want to remain in the gray of the days, nor in the dark nights as brief, came forth this collective will to build a future for all, the "initial day, whole and clean" that we want to pursue. this year, in which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is 45 years ago, we also celebrate this text, colored by the hope of April and by the strength of the people, but which we have to defend, preserve and enforce every day. Because, even modified by successive revisions, our Constitution continues the values of protection and social justice. in its content, the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, social rights such as the environment and the quality of life are enshrined. Yes, the Basic Law defends the environment from its first day, in a feature of evolution and vision of the future, devoting everyone to "the right to a human, healthy and ecologically balanced environment and the duty to defend". Complying with the April colors means protecting biodiversity, working in mitigating climate change, defending the territories of economic appetites that merely want to exploit natural resources, without respect for the populations who have kept them for centuries, who are their guardians, and who, of nature, only take away what they give them, with sweat of days. It is with April and its principles and values that defends the environment and nature and not against April, or in the name of a supposed development, full of promises with beards to protect the planet, but always ready to steal the quality of life of many to fill the pockets of some. Yes, it's April and not April. It is with those of April who do not want only the moment, but defend the process, that is for those who do not hesitate in defining what fascism was, the time when, as Jorge de Sena once again says: « They changed everything into evil, / it is almost a crime to live. / But although they hide everything/ and want me blind and dumb, / I will not die without knowing/ what color of freedom. Do not keep on seeking. ” It's with these we say: fascism never again! It is with them that we send a greeting, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to the brave Captains of April and to the women and men who fought for a free country. It is with them that we will once again color the avenues with the nails and with the joy of those who carry the future, where it will be possible to continue to see the color of freedom. Long live April 25th! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u8	Mr André Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u9	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, High Entities, Excellences, Mrs. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal of Salazar and Marcelo Caetano was the so-called « Portugal amordaçado». Motivated by censorship, dictatorship of the single party, brutal repression of dissent and imprisonment, torture and even the death of political opponents. A Portugal where the woman could only aspire to be the fade of the home, which needed her husband's permission to leave the country, to open a bank account or to take contraceptives. A Portugal where a room of people could not read or write. A Portugal which sent for an unfair and anachronistic war more than 90% of its youth. A Portugal that only in the Lisbon region had 90 000 people living in subhuman conditions in the canal neighborhoods. A Portugal where, as it was mentioned in death statements, died of hunger. 47 years ago, this Portugal began to stay behind, giving rise to what has been called a "resurrected Portugal". A Portugal that began to proclaim pluralism, freedom of expression, the social state with equal and universal access to education, health and social security, the right to work with safety in employment, decent wages and gender equality, the right to culture, housing and a healthy environment. A Portugal open to the world, which has contributed to the construction of the European Union. Forty-seven years later, we can say that, thanks to the Revolution of Cravos, today's Portugal is a state of democratic law. But it has led to a Portugal captured by established interests that have encased democracy in the bubble of the political options of the central block and that so many times serve only a few people or groups, generating disillusionment and social revolt that open up space to opportunism that sells hatred, fear and institutionalization of discrimination as remedies to cure this sick democracy. This is a Portugal captured by corruption and lack of transparency, with institutions that live well with the fact that only 1 % of complaints about corruption crimes give rise to convictions. It is a country that lives well to lose annually more than EUR 18 billion for corruption—it can be seen: only during the time of this short intervention, corruption takes us to €205 000. We can thank whom little or nothing has done to change this reality, that is, the central block. The country that has the worst score of the decade in the index of perception of corruption and which is repeatedly urged by international organizations to adopt their combat measures, is the same country that is well associated with the existence of football politicians-directors and with so many other situations of conflicts of interest in holders of public office; that it fears not to have a law of criminalization of illicit enrichment; that it lives painted by such waves, rotating doors that serve for the central block to jump between public and private entities with conflicting interests; that, in two years, it has not implemented the Transparency Entity and that—is no longer! — has drivers of the Constitutional Court to verify nominations to the presidential elections. And why? For a pure lack of political will! Money always appears for the priorities defined by those who hold power. The country which, via tax evasion, annually loses more than EUR 1000 million, the equivalent of 9% of education spending, is the same country that maintains a tax haven in Madeira, a nursery of organized crime that allowed money to be washed up to high levels of Angolan cleptocracy, BES ghost companies ( Banco Espírito Santo) or football magnates. The offshore of Madeira is an open-air laundry with the high patronage of the central block! The country that gives EUR 10 million to the hunting baronate and maintains the legislation that sustains the Tauromachy is the same country that in 2021 only transfers less than one third of the money needed for municipal policies of protection and animal welfare, including to comply with the law of non- slaughter. When the country needs protection measures for the poorest and most vulnerable, the central bloc intends to continue sponsoring some of the most violent sectors of our society and filling the pockets to those who live at the expense of the suffering of those who cannot defend themselves. The country where the environment receives pledges of love from all parties, in an electoral period, continues to resonate with the interests of the large polluters and the convivient policies of the central block. The government that says it has no money to fight energy poverty, to relieve the fiscal burden of the middle class or to provide social support to the culture sector is the same government that offers more than 500 million euros a year for perverse benefits to the fossil industry. As the planet melts and runs out, the order is to recover the economy through unlimited increase of consumption — everything without environmental counterpart, without looking at the elephant that drowns in the room. In the face of all the opportunities that knowledge and science give us to stop the environmental crisis and the climate crash, the central block opts to build airports or to cover the Alentejo of plastics and pesticides. Portugal of 2021 does not respond to the challenges of the 21st century. It is urgent to withdraw the discussion and political decision of the canton of the immobilism of the central bloc, which has served as a fertilizer to the ground of those who want to destroy democracy and its fundamental values. I know that the central bloc and its informal allies would propagate the isolation and radicalism of these ideas and concerns and, therefore, this is an occasion for me to remember the words of Natalia Correia, a woman of April: « the destiny of solitary opinions is to become excessively accompanied in future time». A more transparent, fair and supportive Portugal, which makes climate action and combating inequalities in the main objectives of the present decade, is the only Portugal possible for those who want to comply with April. Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u10	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Morais Soares. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u11	H.E. Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, General Ramalho Eanes, High Entities, Other Guests, Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: for the second time, we commemorate April 25 in a state of emergency and if, a year ago, there was anyone who wondered if we would come to this celebration masked, today, only the negationists question the need and usefulness of the masks. To evoke the day when freedom is celebrated wins an increased symbolism given the last year that the country and the world have passed. It is always common this day that freedom is not an acquired and definitely achieved gift, but a daily and permanent objective. Nothing more true for the experience we have been working on in the last year—and we continue to hold back—not yet knowing when and how the end will be. Today, the attack on freedom is carried out by an invisible, insidious and dangerous enemy, who has already caused us about 17,000 dead. They are Portuguese of various ages, especially older, of various strata of society, but the pandemic has affected the most disadvantaged, to whom the state had failed in the great fires of 2017 and to whom the state has failed again. This enemy forced us to abdicate rights, something we would never think would be possible in our day. The true restrictions of freedom to which we have been subjected, whether freedom of movement, freedom to be with our families or freedom to work, must lead us to think how often we use in vain and in a disproposing way the idea that we do not have freedom. May the sacrists we have made, the freedoms we have abdicated and the difficulties we have experienced make sense! The Portuguese people, throughout their nearly millennium history, have shown, several times, that they were willing to endure, with resilience, the adversities that the times put. But the Portuguese always knew how to demand that these sacrifices had a purpose, that they were not in vain and that the rulers knew how to meet their demands. Yes, that is the big question! How will the government be able to respond to the outcome of the current crisis? What response will give the more than 1 million citizens on health waiting lists? What answer will you give to the more than 430,000 compatriots who are unemployed? What response will be given to the more than 2 million Portuguese living below the poverty line, especially the older and the younger? What answer will you give to the thousands of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who risk not being able to open the doors? We must never forget that we are not only facing a public health pandemic, but also facing a social pandemic and an economic pandemic. These are the three pandemics to which the State must be able to respond. The country no longer supports any response failure in any of them! The Portuguese who were on the front line, from doctors to nurses, passing firemen, armed forces and security, and volunteers who, in a heroic way, endured this stoic effort to exhaustion, do not deserve to be asked for new sacrifices. The answers that have been given this year make us very cautious as to what we can expect from the solutions that the Government intends to play. The successive programmes and plans announced and presented lead us to distrust the way. It is not enough merely words and announcements of measures that, in practice, do not reach families or businesses. Economic recovery based almost exclusively on investment and public expenditure ignores that the major engine of economic leverage, job creation and wealth production is not the State but, yes, the private sector, companies. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In terms of social responses, more support was also expected for the Portuguese, the most diverse areas, which saw their lost jobs or their incomes falling sharply. Similarly, the third sector which is often the only answer available to Portuguese people was sacrificed beyond what was required. The State has failed to help and respond to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and to the mercys, leaving them financially strangled. There is no vision of planning, it navigates in sight, not being thus possible, any kind of trust. Not only did they lack, and lack, answers, as well as lack of direction, strategy, coordination and courage. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If on 25 April he opened the doors of freedom and began to build the path of democracy, consolidated on 25 November, he also encouraged the hope of justice. This hope in the feelings of the Portuguese people is still not fully realized, as it has not been realized 25 years ago, when this very House decided to amnesty the elements of the bloodiest terrorist organization in the history of our democracy, on April 25 (People's Forces 25th). It is important that the State does not ignore the widespread feeling of Portuguese disbelief, often justified. With regard to justice, the urgent need to reform it and the fight against corruption is necessary and indispensable will have to be one of the priorities. There is also a need for another vision of local power. When the people needed the most, the central state stopped and closed, and if it weren't the city chambers and the parish councils, which never closed doors, the consequences would have been much worse. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this year of autarchic elections and in this day when it is recalled on 25 April, whose democratic local power was one of its main achievements, it is not only just as it is indispensable that a public recognition be made to all the autarchs who were, and are, in front of the fight, without ever turning their backs on their populations. The proximity of local power to populations cannot continue to be forgotten! From north to south, from the interior to the coast, without ever forgetting the islands, our thousands of autarchs were of irreprehensible surrender and dedication, having some of them lost to their own lives so that their lands would not lose the fight against the virus. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Portuguese, particularly the new generations, expect and deserve from all of us is that we do not fail, that we do not leave the dream to be realized, that we do not let justice to be realized, that we do not leave democracy to be effective nor freedom to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u12	It is the time of the Portuguese Communist Party. Mrs. Alma Rivera has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u13	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Illustres Invitados, Mrs. Members: Nearly six million Portuguese were born after 25 April 1974. They did not live April, they did not live the Revolution, but have it recorded in themselves, present in their lives, as much as there is anyone who wants to erase the memory and deny what April brought us. Every person who lives in our country has their lives marked by what April and its values have enshrined in rights, freedom and progress. Many are those who have been born from this progress and from the great achievement that, today, once again, the National Health Service, which has brought about the drama of infant and maternal mortality. April brought motherhood and paternity rights and every child today goes to school because April redeemed her to hard work in the fields and factories, to poverty and illiteracy and gave her the right to learn and play. Each young person can dream of his or her academic journey, of the beginning of his or her life, because he or she does not have to go to war, forced to kill other young people with dreams, in brotherly countries. There are still mothers who don't have children and children who don't have a father, from emigrant singing, but no one is going to jump, subject to prison. When we fight for the increase in the national minimum wage established with the Revolution, for the right to work and for the right to work with rights, it is for April that we fight. When everyone strikes and does not allow the law of the jungle to be imposed, it enforces what April brought and before was forbidden. Every worker in this country has the right to a holiday and the holiday paid because April has won it. It was with April that disability is no longer a sentence and it is a tribute to the Revolution. It was April that ended with the separation of first and second persons and it was April that women became full of rights, self-employed women, able to get rid of violence, and that we all had affection and love as the only criteria for being family. When we are outraged today, we rise against injustice, inequality, corruption is because we can do it. Because April made us want more and have a right to more than one country dominated by half a dozen families and owners, in which state politics was corruption, its concealment and repression of those who denounced it. Practices that some want to restore today, against the Constitution of the Republic and through its revision, imposing the domain of economic power on political power. All citizens have the same social dignity and are equal before the law. No one can be privileged, benefited, impaired, deprived of any right due to descent, sex, race, language, territory of origin, religion, political or ideological convictions, education, economic status, social status or sexual orientation. These values, enshrined in the Constitution for 45 years, are values that we carry in the present and project in the future of Portugal. Time increasingly leaves this early morning which was April 25th, but does not have to impose the distance of its values of freedom, democracy and solidarity. We are the ones who determine the future and, with Ary, we say that « we are a river that will give wherever we want. To think that we are a sea that never has borders again and we must sail in many ways». We can do it differently. The younger generations are already the ancestors of the anti-fascists who gave their lives for the cause of liberation, but have common battles: battles in defense of April's conquests and by the realization of what remained unfinished with the Revolution, by defending the democratic regime. All those who have not lived April 1974 are called upon to continue it and to defend the rights won with it, to defend health, education and social security against the logic of profit and the greed of large economic groups. More than ever, it is clear how important the public services won with April are and how decisive is the role of those who build them daily, in particular the National Health Service and the public school. The access of each person who inhabits this country to fundamental rights — quality education, quality health, decent housing, work as an element of social and personal achievement, protection in disease and old age — is one of the great battles of our time, to ensure that everyone has conditions of economic, social and cultural well-being. We continue the centenary struggle for the right to work, against its depreciation, because what goes out of wages continues to go to the pockets of a few, against the use of workers as disposable, indispensable goods, because even a pandemic is a pretext to aggravate exploitation. These millions of Portuguese who were born after 25 April demand that wealth be distributed fairly, allowing a dignified life for all, being against the obscene accumulation of some, very few, who run away from taxes and justice, at the same time that they say it is not time to claim. The Portuguese people need a State at their service to fulfill the mission of developing the country, raising living conditions, achieving full employment, sharing wealth and asserting sovereignty. We are fighting for the defence of the most human and essential values, of freedom and democracy, of equality and solidarity. And we do not stop that poverty and poverty, precariousness and unemployment are enemies of the values of April; that despair is the opposite of the way of April; that impunity for corruption, economic and financial crimes, banking holes, misuse of public history are faced with democracy; that its greatest enemy is the subjugation of political power by economic power and its fusion into one. We continue to fight, with the conviction that the united people will never be overcome and that we are a « river that will give anywhere». Who needs April in their lives, who needs the Constitution and its rights to be fulfilled has the strength to prevent setbacks and is with their voice and arms to be fulfilled April. [[Congratulations from BE, the PCP, the ENP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u14	by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u15	Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to begin by associating myself with the tribute already made here today to the April military. We owe your courage to the end of the long night of fascism. It is a tribute that I extend to all women and men who have fought for decades against the dictatorship of the New State, so often paying this audacity with prison or with their own life. In a country that so often suffers from a selective memory, I also remember all the fighters for the liberation of African countries occupied by the Portuguese colonial regime, who knew well the extent of their struggle. Amílcar Cabral stated in 1971: « We are absolutely convinced that, as the peoples of the Portuguese colonies move forward with their struggle and completely rid themselves of Portuguese colonial domination, they will be contributing in a very effective way to the liquidation of the fascist regime in Portugal ». I was right. These African women and men did not only conquer freedom for their peoples, they also contributed to the release of the Portuguese people. Also to them and to them we owe April 25, to them and to them we pay our tribute this day. [[Congratulations from BE and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The April 25 Revolution inaugurated an era of freedom and democracy that brought with it achievements long ago: freedom of expression, free elections, right to strike, national minimum wage, public school, National Health Service, social security. It is never too much to remember the achievements that April made possible, as it is not too much to remember that they are not irreversible. The resurgence of populist or fascist forces around the world, including in Portugal, should alert us and mobilize us to the intransigent defense of democracy. As Angela Davis tells us, “freedom is a constant struggle”. Despite the much that has been achieved, the promise of equality and justice brought by April is still far from being fulfilled. There are still unacceptable levels of poverty in Portugal. A recent study confirms the violence of inequality: in a country where a significant part of the population lives at risk of poverty, one third of the poor people, even before the pandemic, had work. With the social and economic crisis caused by the pandemic, in which many people have lost their jobs and their incomes, the intensity of poverty will increase. This inequality — it is good to remember it — disproportionately affects some social groups which are the target of multiple discrimination. Forty-seven years after 25 April 1974, full equality of rights is still a mirage for many people in our country: for women, who see their freedom and their rights limited by a patriarchal culture that oppresses them; for black people, gypsies and other racialized communities, who suffer every day the impact of structural racism; for migrant and refugee persons, who barge their access to fundamental rights; for LGBTQI+(Lesbians, Gays, Bisexualsuals, Transgenero, Queer or Questionors and Intersex), discriminated against by a heteronomy society that excludes them and violent; for people with disabilities, whose power is denied to decide their lives and to live with true independence; for the elderly, so often forgotten by public policies. As long as these discriminations persist in Portugal, April will be to be fulfilled. April will not be fully accomplished either until we face corruption. Corruption is the cement of economic injustice and inequality. It undermines democracy, distorts justice and threatens social cohesion. It is necessary to break the indulgence that feeds promiscuity, fraud, rotating doors, subordination of public interest to business. Corruption takes over resources and makes the wrong choices prevail over the right choices. In times of social crisis, of climate urgency, of worsening inequalities and discrimination, the price of these wrong choices is even higher, is too high. No one can accept to pay this price. The resulting revolt is exploited by many to grow their political business. But there is no doubt that the denunciation of corruption cannot be the "Troia's horse" of authoritarian political agendas of discrediting the institutions of democracy, which, in fact, many times, have to give more explanations about their methods and transparency before the rules of the law. The lack of shame comes to the point of having a lawyer coming from a tax planning office going up this rostrum to cry out against the tax leak. We must therefore face corruption with courage and determination, changing the financial regime, combating fraud, improving legal and judicial mechanisms for prevention, investigation and punishment. And also through a demanding political and citizen action, which defends transparency, public interest and justice. We do not accept that the promise of April contained in the Constitution of April is being marketed. The sovereignty of the people and their representation are not a commodity. That is what April left us as a lesson: the most essential of the common goods of a people is democracy. And she cannot be made merchandise or property of someone. Our democracy is not for sale. Let's fight for her every day. Long live April 25th! Long live democracy! Long live socialism! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u16	by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u17	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we celebrate 47 years of April 25. Forty-seven years has always been a very long period, but in today's society, in which everything changes at a vertiginous speed, they represent much more than at any other time in our collective history. It is no wonder that Portugal today celebrates the birth of the regime in a climate of some discontent and some disbelief. It is no wonder because, as in everything in life, time also wastes the institutions and the way they organize themselves. If society changes the high speed it is imperative that political regimes also be able to adapt to new realities. When this adaptation is not fulfilled, when the reforms that social mutations require do not take place, it is inevitable that a gap between their ability to respond and the legitimate aspirations of the people who are supposed to serve will appear. This is what unfortunately has happened between us: a real inability to carry out the reforms that the evolution of society imposes upon us. It will not, therefore, be to admire the growing divorce between citizens and the current state of our regime, which, despite the virtualities in itself, has not been able to regenerate and "disconquer" the interests that the time has been installing. There is a lack of political will and ambition to carry out, with the necessary courage, the reforms that reality demands and caution advises. If these reforms are not made, it will certainly not be with sanitary cords, nor with radical opinion articles, which will overcome the emerging extremisms. The best way to fight radicalism is to attack the real causes of its appearance and they have been, above all, in our inability to destroy what makes it grow. Mr President, the lack of effectiveness of our justice system to meet what is required of it in a democratic rule of law is one of the main reasons for the discontent of the Portuguese people. When you hear the politically correct saying that "this is justice working" it is too obvious that the people, who know well that this is justice not working, can only revolt against the domain of hypocrisy about truth and courage. [[PSD applause.]] The permanent violations of the secret of justice, the inability to punish corruption and the crime of white collar, which has ruined the public finances and savings of many families, or the investigation-spectacular that interferes with human rights and promotes popular judgments, are grave examples of how the regime is sick and divorced from its own principles. [[PSD applause.]] When system agents commit, themselves, the crime of violation of the secret of justice are not only disparaging public life and crushing innocent and guilty, they are also crushing their own authority and credibility. Unfortunately, among us today is a clear sense of impunity, whether it is for the most powerful or for the judicial system itself, which is self-governance with a clear lack of transparency. There must be accountability, evaluation and transparency in all sectors of national life. When a court case takes more than ten years — in some cases close to 20 years — to be brought to trial, whether in criminal, civil or administrative courts, we are not doing justice, because when justice is not done in good time, it is simply not justice. If the current judicial system has already shown itself unable to break free from the corporate tic and update itself, in order to respond to the righteous desires of the Portuguese people, then it is clear that the responsibility of achieving must pass through the sphere of political power, which, when not to do so, becomes itself equally responsible. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, as is public knowledge, the PSD has been fully available since February 2018 for the national interest to make structural agreements with other political parties which only extended political majority can achieve. There is little in our convictions that the media correct discourse classifies those who declare themselves available for structural understandings with their opponents of collaborationist or opposition of weak magnitude. We must be in public life with the focus on the future of the country and never in what has no size or dimension of state. Unfortunately, the reforms that Portugal needs do not restrict itself to justice. The modernisation of the political system, the decentralization and the fight against regional asymmetries or the sustainability of social security itself are also areas of national life that the evolution of society requires that we be able to reform. Celebrating April 25 must first be to defend democracy, identifying its weaknesses and pointing out ways to strengthen it. More than repeating words that they already add, the evocation of April 25 should be a realistic contribution to tearing the horizons and giving hope to the Portuguese. It is, therefore, with this spirit and with eyes in the future that the PSD once again pays its fair tribute to the historic Revolution of Claws. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u18	by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Quintanilha has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u19	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Government, Illustres Invited, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: When we met here last time, it was impossible to predict the difficult year we would be going to live. The uncertainty we still face affects us deeply. There are many images of suffering that we will never forget. But today we realize that the metaphors of the spring and the light at the end of the tunnel were not in vain. The increasing rate of vaccinations and the progressive citizen accountability are comforting. Some days ago, Antonio Guterres and the European Union saw Joe Biden join their call for a global unity around ambitious goals. on the theme of climate Portugal is on the front line of countries. We were the first to commit ourselves to the carbonic neutrality and the commitment of the Members of this House in this area is almost unanimous. The task of consensualizing the eight bills submitted is ongoing. The Eurobarometer last Friday shows 89 % of the Portuguese to be trusted in the European Union, a trust that is reciprocal and the result of our commitment. The significance of this day of hope is now wider, it is to remember the determination and boldness of those who have made possible the conquest of freedom and self-esteem of this overwhelming majority of those who suffered the oppression of a regime based on persecution, fear and falsehood. But it is also the historic event, which is lived by all of us, every day: when young people, they and they believe and fight for their dreams to come true, or when each one of us decides who he wants to be, what profession to exercise, where to live and with who he wants to build his family, his future and that of the planet. It was exactly 150 years ago that, in reference to the fateful date of 1545, Antero called us to be reborn, and I quote, « From moral death that did not invade only the feeling, imagination, taste: it invaded above all the intelligence of the peninsular peoples». This rebirth of hope took place on 25 April. It's been over four centuries of waiting. And it was huge that moment! The Portuguese won political freedom. The Portuguese, all the freedoms that had been dreamt of them. The inequality, exposed in the New Portuguese Letters, has not yet been completely eliminated, but no one has given up. We are now millions demanding equality and extending it to the exuberant multiplicity of emerging identities. Many, both inside and outside the country, are surprised by the consolidation of our democracy. We have ceased to be on the tail of OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and have exceeded the average of almost all of its development indicators. This success is of all of us. What was achieved in 30 years is gigantic and the Socialist Party can be proud to have been one of the main workers of this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in education, health and solidarity, but also in the field of research and innovation, both technological, as well as social and cultural, it is not all done, it is true. But it is fair that by continuing to fight ambitiously, inclusively, responsible and coherently, we celebrate the work done, until the weakening of democracies grows and three quarters of the world's population lives away from it. Populism and demagogy, heavily funded, are gaining insidious strength and the United States of America has recently escaped. The challenges that the future holds for us are immense. They are global, complex and interdependent. They demand a strong union of efforts and resources. Either we help each other or we wreck all together. That is also the lesson of the pandemic. Climate emergency, obscene inequalities, new and old diseases, job insecurity, demographic transition and armed conflicts could not be more evident. It will be very difficult to comply with the Paris climate agreement. Two thirds of future infectious diseases are expected to be transmitted from animals to humans. The current slavery is different and no longer encapsulated. The forecasts point to deep demographic changes with unknown impacts on the organization of societies. We need knowledge, much more knowledge, much more shared and in all areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Digital's gonna help a lot, but it's not enough. The necessary investments will be enormous, of course, but no one doubts: ignorance is much more expensive. Without the trust of the citizens this will not be possible. As always, it is the multiplicity and diversity of views that enriches the democratic debate. The nobility of politics is precisely in the intransigent defense of the confrontation of ideas, but also in achieving efforts to build such a sustainable world that we all want. Always inspired by empathy and solidarity and guided by knowledge and courage, yes, this fearsome courage that allows us to be reborn every day and forever in freedom. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u20	Your Excellency the President of the Republic will now send a message to Parliament. The President of the Republic has the floor of His Excellency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u21	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Court of Auditors, President Antonio Ramalho Eanes, Mr. Members of the Government, Dear Guests, Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portuguese: 60 years ago, a month ago, 60 years ago about the beginning of a time which would have to go ahead and determine today's date, that which we have mentioned here, 25 April 1974. It was a time made of various times and ways that forever marked the life of more than a million young people out of their lands to cross seas and live and die on another continent or from it to return, some with indelible traits in their health. It was a time that, forever, marked the lives of their families, their places, their villages, their villages and even their cities, at the bottom of a whole Portugal, for 13 years, or a little more. It was a time that, forever, marked the lives of those who, by choice in principle, refused that departure and went to other destinations, continuing or initiating a fight against what was and wanted to remain. It was a time that, forever, marked the life of those who, already living there, went them or their ancestors from lands to that sea, came from there, at the end of these long years, or there remained and are to stay. It was a time that, forever, marked the lives of those who lived and died on the other side of the trench, to conquer what they finally achieved, after 25 April 1974. It was a time that, forever, marked the lives of families, places, villages, towns and even cities, of homelands declared independent after 13 years, or a little more, of a time still so close to us and yet so far away for so many generations. This, which was not a time emerging from other times, was what it was, because the decades that preceded it, the century that preceded it, the five centuries that preceded it created or extended contexts that would have to define and condition it. And, therefore, it is so difficult, say-CL- it would be impossible to explain, whatever the view of each one, these 13 years, or a little more, without talking about Portugal from the 20th to the 70s, Portugal from the end of the nineteenth to the 20s, Portugal from the various small cycles of the colonial empire and colonial relations in it lived. That is why it is so difficult to look with our eyes today and try to look with our eyes from the past that, most of the time, it is not easy for us to understand, knowing that others will, in the future, look at us differently from our eyes today. Believing many, in which I am included, that there is, in today's eyes, a personalist density, that is, respect for the dignity of the human person and his rights, in the condemnation of slavery and slavery, in the refusal of racism and other xenophobia, which has been hastening and enriching, representing an irreversible cultural and civilizational advancement. Believing many, in which I also include, that today's gaze was not, most often, the gaze of these other times, which compels us to an ungrateful mission, to judge the past with the eyes of today, without demanding, in some situations, those who lived this past, who could anticipate values, or their understanding, for us, now, considered by obvious, timeless and universal, especially if not adopted in the most advanced societies of that time. If this bean is ungrateful for centuries away, it is not thought to be free of difficulties for much more recent times. It continues to be complex to understand both the glances at the end of the 19th century, when the empires severed, the ruler and frame, the African continent, or those of the early 20th century, when the monarchy passed the republican empire. On the contrary, it is obvious that the judgment on the more recent past, when other empires ended and the Portuguese empire delayed, for decades, the decolonizing process, refusing to listen to the advice of history and only extinguishing the indigenous in the 1960s, that is, a dozen years before 1974. This review of history advises some precautions. The first is not to take the consequences of today's gaze on the gazes of eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two centuries ago, to the point of passing from a purely glorious triumphalist acrylic cult of our history to a global and equally acrytic demolition of all of it, even to which, at various titles, it is underlined in other latitudes and longitudes. Absolute monarchs and therefore dictatorial in today's eyes — and they were the majority — would be condemned globally, regardless of their role in the foundation, territorial unification, restoration, intercontinental European diplomacy. Or, then, monarchs and rulers of Liberalism—who there were—are prospects in the history that they did and refused in the nineteenth century, sometimes with the improbable singularity of a ruling prince in Brazil, the firstborn son of our king, who declared the independence of this power of the present and the future, being his first emperor, having come to fight for freedom and to die in Portugal, in the same room where he was born, 35 years, two crowns and an independence before. Or even important personalities of Republican Liberalism, in the center or periphery of the empire, such as Norton de Matos. The second precaution is to learn to look in particular at the immediate past, with the eyes that are not ours, those of the former colonizer, but with the eyes of the former colonized, trying to discover and understand, as much as possible, as they were seeing and judging and suffering, in particular where and when relations became more intense and lasting and of them there could be the corresponding and impressive witness. The third precaution is the most sensitive of all, for respecting times very, very present in our lives and those of us, Portuguese, who are less than 50 years old and have not known the colonial empire, neither in the farthest, nor in the living here, in the center. Your judgment is, of course, less emotional, less passionate. I admit that this is not the case, however, in many young people in societies who have achieved independence against the Portuguese empire and have then lived decades troubled by the reflections of various nature of the previous colonial situation. For Portuguese people over 50 or 55 years old, the fact that they revisit childhood or youth is more challenging, is a mixture of memories, new worlds discovered, uprooting or new roots, first desertification of the interior of the continent, migrations and many more immigrations, personal transformations, family, community, crying deaths, signs in health and life, traumas of the most diverse and, at different times, by what they dreamed and despaired, so they suffered and remained, for what they waited and endured, and for what they feel they have never had enough recognition. For all of them and many more, judgment is as complex as complex as it was the historical change that, today, we recall, in its openness to decolonization, for development, for freedom, for democracy. Development, freedom and democracy, I know - everyone, have always been imperfect and, therefore, not complete, because the structural poverty of two million Portuguese people has never been solved, the personal and territorial inequalities and the deinstitutionalizations I mentioned here in 2016 and 2018, and that the pandemic has revealed and accentuated. But this historic change was complex in 1974, the result of the resistance of many and many, for the half century, with their political followers sitting in this Chamber. She gained her time and her decisive way in the essential gesture of the Captains of April, here qualifiedly represented by the Association 25 April, which I welcome, recognized, on behalf of all Portuguese. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]] These April Captains did not come from other galaxies, nor from other nations, nor did they emerge in an apex, that morning, to make history. They were already carrying with them their history, their commissions in Africa — one, two, three, some four — years followed by our Armed Forces, having to choose, every day, between fulfilling or questioning, between believing in a loved future and that others defined or did not believe, between accepting or, from a certain moment, breaking. All in situations where the line that separates living from death is very tenuous, despite the principles, the rules, the dictates written by politicians and lawyers in cabinets, which are not the scenarios in which courage is added to survival and solidarity in comradeship. For it was these men, themselves, not others, who were heroes that morning of April 25! As they had been, there were many more fighters, year after year, on the distant borders of the empire. As they have just accepted, for public symbols and visible face of change, older officials who would have to be the first two Presidents of the Republic in the transition to democracy. These were not, had not been, had not been, had been, yes, great military leaders in the field and, in him, were responsible for years of combat, coordination with information and anti-guerrilla services, of proximity to populations. That was the 25th of April, before bringing about the revolutionary popular process that followed and supported him, before today being the national heritage in which his only sovereign is the Portuguese people. It was, in its outbreak, the result of decades of resistance and then crucially, a cry of revolt by the military who had given years of their lives to the homeland, in the field of struggle, and who felt they were fighting without a visible or viable political future, presided over, and all of us, by two military leaders, one after another, who had known, intense and prolongedly, the guerrilla war in military missions and political-military positions of the most relevant. That is why it is so fair to award the April military, having already deserved a very special tribute, one of them, that, after having been on the ground, it came to be a key piece in the change of regime and the first President of the elected Portuguese Republic, who has always rejected the marachalate that deserved and deserves: President Antonio Ramalho Eanes. [[PS, PSD, PCP, PEV, CH and IL applause.]] This is also because judgment on such a recent story is so difficult, except in what is most obvious consensus: consensus on what the empire did not understand, that is, the time it condemned. The dictatorship could not understand how long it had condemned it irrefractively and, even more evident, from 1958 onwards and from the saga of Humberto Delgado. The colonial relationship could not understand the root of the inevitability of its inconsequence. These reflections are now because nothing like April 25 to rethink our past, when our present is still so hard and our future is so urgent. And yet, because at each step, the temptation to turn this rethinking of the past into argument of mere tactical or strategic movement can arise. in a time that is still and will be of crisis in life and in health and economic and social crisis, we will face lucid serenity which can stir the conjuncural political confrontation, but which does not correspond to what is a priority for the Portuguese and which, besides not being a priority in these days of crisis, is doubtful at any time. It is priority to study the past and to digest everything: what was good and what was bad. It is priority to assume everything, all this past, without self-justification or undue global self-contemplation, and excessive global self-flagging. And, in the case of the most recent past, take justice, largely for doing, to the more than one million Portuguese who served for arms what they understood, or made them understand, to be the national interest. [[PSD applause.]] And also to the other millions who, here or there, lived the same hatred; to the millions who, there and here, lived it on the other side of history, fighting the Portuguese colonial empire, beating themselves for their national causes, or living it on the same side, but who were forgotten, abandoned by whom they returned and condemned for whom they had never forgiven them had aligned it with the opponent. And yet to the many — and they were almost a million — who arrived rigorously without anything, after having conceived a life that was or became impossible; to the many — and were millions — who suffered, in their new homelands, internal conflicts inherited from colonization or from the terms of decolonization. Even out of respect for all of these and all of them, to be made history and history, to learn lessons from one and another without fears or complex, with the natural diversity of judgments, which is the very nature of democracy. But if it does not transform what it releases, and all the return as serene as possible frees or should release, in mere imprisonment of feelings, useful for campaigns of certain moments, but not useful for understanding the past, to think about the present and the future. April 25 was made to release, not forgetting or hiding, but to release. Those who did so knew how to overcome many of their divisions, during the Revolution and after it, to think about the essential unity of the same homeland. Taking the simplified terms of these times, different sensibilities in the Armed Forces Movement, which were then shocked, did not fail to understand, then, that the essential unity of a rupture, then made Revolution, itself composed of several revolutions, all the most superfluous. Sister-nations in the language have known to meet us and us with them and have been able to judge a common path, looking into the future, exceeding centuries of political, economic, social, cultural and human domination. May the years that remain until the mid-century of April 25 serve all of us to take such a path, as most Portuguese have done in the back decades, making each day one more step in taking on the glory that honor us and the failures we are responsible for and, well, in building, today, cohesions and inclusions and in combating, today, personal or social intolerances. Whoever appeals to you to this very thing is the son of a ruler in the dictatorship and empire who lived, in which the name of his second homeland, the late and inexorable occasion of this empire and who then, as a Constituent, lived the start of the new democratic time. A portuguese of charneira, like millions of Portuguese, between two stories of the same history, which neither by exercising the function it performs, forgets or erases the history he has witnessed, as, nor by witnessing this history, has ceased to be elected and re-elected by the Portuguese, in democracy — the democracy that helped to enshrine in the Constitution that, 45 years ago, reigns us. May April 25 live forever, as a liberating gesture and founder of history. That we know how to make from this history a lesson of present and future, without alibis or omissions, but without unjustified shortcomings, wanting much more and more and more better. There is no, there has never been a perfect Portugal; as there is no, there has never been a condemned Portugal. There was, there is and will always be one Portugal, a Portugal we love and of which we are proud, in addition to its clear and dark, also because it is ours. We are that Portugal. Long live April 25th! Long live Portugal! [[PSP, PSD, CDS-PP (on foot), BE and IL were applauded and the PCP, PEV and MP did not register Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-25.u22	The Commemorative Session of the XLVII Anniversary of 25 April 1974 is closed. [[It was 11 hours and 56 minutes.]]
