ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start this plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] As the first item on the agenda we have the discussion of draft resolution No 758 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to strengthen the selective collection in Portugal, together with in general draft Law No 639 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Reduction of packaging waste, draft resolution No 792 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends mechanisms for a reduction of urban solid waste and a tariff policy for territorial cohesion and social justice and, in general, Law No 632 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Monitoring of Urban Waste Management Systems and defining strategies for increasing urban waste recovery and recycling, 633 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Reduction of superfluous packaging on commercial surfaces and 529 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Promotes reduction of packaging waste and increased recycling rate. First, though, I'm going to give Mr.Secretariat Sofia Araújo the floor to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I refer, first, to the withdrawal of Bill No. 29 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ). I then inform you that you have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the Bill No 73 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), Law Projects No. 674 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 675 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 676 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 677 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) and Resolution Projects Nos 944 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 945 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 946 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 947 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 948 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 949 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 950 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 951 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV), 952 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV), 953 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 954 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 955 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 956 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 957 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 958 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 959 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 960 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 961 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 962 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 963 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 964 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 965 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 966 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 967 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 968 / XIV /2 . a(PEV) , 969 / XIV /2 . a (PAN) , 970 / XIV /2 . a (PAN) , 971 / XIV /2 . a (PAN) , 972 / XIV /2 . a (BE ) and 980 / XIV /2 . a (PAR). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u3	Thank you, Secretary Sofia Araújo. Let us, then, enter the first item on the agenda. To present the PS initiative, Mr. João Nicolau has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Much has been the national and Community legislative evolution in waste management, but there is still a long way to go, with a view to the sustainability and reduction of the impact of human activity on our planet. It is essential to ensure a paradigm shift in waste production, reducing them, but also reusing, recycling and valuing, when such production cannot be avoided. We have been talking about encouraging the separation of waste for many years, but today it is absolutely urgent to ensure that this happens. The new challenges today require greater effort in selective collection. The review of the General Waste Management Regime came to make the necessary transpositions to the legal order, but it also brought the necessary organisation, clarity and ambition, as well as, in the field of recycling, important measures aimed at avoiding the production of unnecessary packaging, showing the cost of undifferentiated waste and giving priority to the path of individual liability of the waste producer. In the last decade, many studies, pilot projects, but also study cases, some with decades of experience, pointed out the economic viability and efficiency gains of door-to-door collection systems and systems with individual charge of the cost of collection and treatment to each producer. These are methodologies that we usually know as PAYT(Pay-As-You-Throw). thus, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recommends the adoption of the necessary measures with a view to strengthening the selective collection and, of course, the implementation of methodologies that favour the polluter-payer principle, where we cite the PAYT methodologies as an example. However, we are aware of the evolution and adaptation necessary to the diversity of contexts in our country. On the other hand, we recommend the reformulation of mechanisms with a view to financing targeted to municipalities, in order to modernize systems and benefit those who recycling the most. But it is also recommended that ERSAR ( Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ), in collaboration with APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency ), may intensify the promotion and monitoring of the implementation of PAYT methodologies or other appropriate models. In short, one thing is true, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: if nothing changes, we will not get different results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u5	To present your initiative, Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of urban solid waste, packaging takes a significant weight of total production. in this framework, packaging waste should be given particular attention with a view to reducing production and its danger, and increasing reuse, selective collection, recycling and final destination. At all these levels, the goals proposed in the PERSU (Strategic Plan for Urban Solid Waste) have not been achieved, which shows that there is still a huge amount of work to be done in order to ensure better results. in a time when we discuss the double rise of the waste management rate ( TGR ), when it comes to the old formula of the polluter-payer, we could not fail to say that it is time to focus on the component of the reduction of packaging waste. Therefore, the concern of the Greens continues to be with the awareness of citizens, highlighted as fundamental in all documents on sustainable development, which highlight the need to prioritize and implement information, training and education. However, the governments have shown a drift in relation to this issue in environmental and waste policy, in particular. A second point which we also highlight, on the alternative of consumers, in a waste reduction perspective, is the easily seized finding that citizens pay and transport with you, without having requested it, without its desire, a significant set of packagings that has an immediate destination, even before the product is consumed, which is waste. If the product is needed, the consumer cannot, at all, reject the packaging, because he simply cannot obtain the product without it. This is therefore imposed on you. Often, more than desirable, it is found that the size of many packages is exaggerated in relation to the volume of the packaged products, without this fact being of any importance in ensuring the quality of the product, as in the orders that arrive at our home at this time when the online purchases are frequent, and thus producing quantity and volume of packaging waste that are indispensable and that the consumer continues to pay. The prohibition of this type of packaging, perfectly indispensable, is the main objective of this bill, in order to contribute to the realization of the principle, undeniably essential, of reducing packaging and packaging waste. The Greens believe that there is here an objective to guarantee the public interest which requires a regulation of the supply that the market makes to the consumer. Why will economic operators not be called upon to make a more significant contribution to reducing packaging because of their offer? Indeed, prior to accountability for the behavior of the final consumer of waste, there is a work on regulating the market for the sale of goods that is of absolute relevance to the reduction of packaging waste. Less packaging and less waste corresponds to lower costs and better environment. The need to "deploy" at a significant dose to our society is an imperative that the Greens take as one of the priorities at the environmental level and which must be taken across the various sectors. There is courage to face the great economic interests, which are the only beneficiaries of this gap. The same courage that they use to increase the waste management rate that will always be paid by them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u7	To present your initiative, Mr. Nelson Peralta, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on waste policy is a triage of positions in this Parliament and that is why we believe it is useful to have a comparative debate in order to be clear. The right has decided not to bring any proposals, but the Socialist Party has decided to bring the right debate and today presents a proposal that the right, the PSD and the CDS-PP already presented in 2013 and that the PS itself voted against. Let's look at this proposal. It has a pompous title: '(...) necessary measures to strengthen the selection in Portugal'. What does the proposal on reduction, reuse and recycling say? Zero! About methods of collection? Zero! About new waste streams? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u9	What about the Left Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u10	The Socialist Party's proposal is only to implement a polluter-paying tariff, without any other measure upstream and where it is assumed that the polluter is at home, without alternatives to consumption, and not an entire economic system. But despite this proposal being only about the tariff, it does not say a single line on social tariff. However, in December, the Government removed the obligations of producers and hypermarkets on re-use of packaging, but the Bloc presented a bill to combat overpacking and the PS voted against. But the companies in the sector continue to fail to meet a single goal. However, before all these « but», what is the solution of the Socialist Party? Save businesses from the waste bin, save companies from the waste sector and blame only those who are at home. Let's talk about the alternative. The Block does not overlook the importance of individual responsibility. In fact, we all learned how to recycle with the Gervásio chimpanzee, but also, even with the Gervásio chimpanzee, public investment was needed and the creation of a new collection model, the ecopoints. So, what proposals does the Left Block bring here today? First of all, we propose the reorganization of the economy. If we really want to reduce waste, we need to reduce its production in origin, we need to regulate packaging, recoverable tar systems, measures for the longevity of electronic equipment, and so many other measures for the accountability of producer companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u11	These are complementary measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u12	Secondly, we propose the responsibility of the State and its waste sector, with the implementation of new collection models, such as the door-to-door, and with the creation of new waste streams, such as bioresidues or textiles. And measures are also needed to take correct advantage of the methane from waste. We also propose measures on the tariff. Of course, we want the generalization of the social tariff. The waste sector is an essential public service and no one can be excluded — no one excluded! — of this service, nor can this service be an overcrowded over the deprived families. We also propose that tariff support mechanisms be set up in areas with low population density. Those living in inner villages cannot be subject to higher rates only because of the costs of the territorial organization. We also propose the end of excessive incomes and perverse subsidies to burn waste for electricity production. We are really committed to reducing and valuing waste. The polluter-paying principle cannot be a tax on citizens who have no alternative to the really existing economy, nor can it be a green way for large companies to pollute. We choose an economy that is reorganized to be compatible with the needs of citizens and with the sustainability of the planet. That is why we also adopted yesterday a moratorium on the increase in the waste management rate and, for that reason, even today, we have allocated the parliamentary assessment of the General Waste Management Regime, in order to make many changes in waste policy in Portugal, because, in fact, nothing is going on in this sector, as the failure to meet the targets shows. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u13	To request clarification from Mr Nelson Peralta, Mrs Joana Bento of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bloc and the Greens say that the government is out of the question, which is not true. More: our action is all less pompose, because it is effective. We see the following: in December last year, there were a number of very relevant changes in the waste sector — with effect production in July this year — with which the proper jointing should be established and the implementation of which needs to be monitored. Is it a pompous, Mr. Deputy? Oh, my God! The recent legislative amendment to reduce waste production was made in a difficult pandemic context, but this did not prevent national targets in reducing urban, non-urban and food waste production, which is also a compromise in all government areas. Is it a pompous, Mr. Deputy? Oh, my God! The challenge we all face is not of legislative production, because it is there. The real challenge is the involvement, the compromise, I would say even in the accountability of different actors in the process of the existence of waste, because only in this way will we succeed, with effort and responsibility, in meeting the European trend and meeting the objectives assumed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important to adopt individual behaviors to accelerate the achievement of the goals to which we are committed. Mr President, there are a number of diplomas, including Unilex, which include obligations for industry, distribution, retail, restoration and which aim to promote a sustainable reduction in the consumption of single-use packages and the promotion of reusable packaging on the market. Another point he spoke about has to do with the creation of mechanisms for the use and transformation of methane and biogas. Here, the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is in public consultation, includes EUR 186 million to support investment in renewable gas production projects. The Portugal 2030 programme will continue to support the growth of renewable gas production. Is it a pompous, Mr. Deputy? Oh, my God! We know the way is difficult. Knowing that we cannot have « the sun in the air and rain in the napal», I question the Left Block on which paths, with these programmes and support, would draw on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u15	In reply, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u16	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, although she referred to the law that the Government made in December. Before that law, producer companies such as Coca-Cola, and distributors such as Pingo Doce and Continent, were obliged to set binding targets for re-use of packaging. Now, with the new law, they can continue to use the plastic that goes to the trash. Well, let's change that law: Parliamentary appreciation is already scheduled. With regard to the proposal presented by the PS today, it has already been submitted in 2013 by the Government of austerity, that of the PSD / CDS. I therefore welcome the Socialist Party with the words of Mr. Pedro Farmhouse at that time: « Forget the PSD and the CDS that the introduction of a PAYT system may find resistance of the population, especially if it is perceived as new expenditure, tax, in the family budget». Well, not only did the PSD forget, not only did the CDS forget, as it now forgets the PS, that it wants to present a new rate on families, without upstream measures, without social tariff measures, without measures to hold companies responsible, waste companies, without even having to be held accountable by the State. And that's not going to happen, because we're going to change the general waste law to ensure effective sector accountability, as well as public policies for it. Environmental policy is not to clear taxes on citizens; environmental policy is to create production alternatives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u17	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that we already have 187 Members registered for quorum purposes, and we are therefore in a position to make all the votes. You have the floor to present the initiatives of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country needs, in fact, a new policy for waste and the design of this policy must be incorporated in an integrated vision of environmental problems, adaptation to climate change, which does not penalise those who have less responsibility for pollution and destruction of the environment, leading to the root of the problems. The delivery policy of the one that is one of the most essential sectors of private logic has proved to be very bad for the populations, for the workers themselves in the sector and for the environment. The ultimate intention to privatize water and waste services, a continuous process supported at once by PS, PSD and CDS, had as a mercy blow the privatization of EGF (General Development Company ) and its delivery to Mota-Engil. All of this, however, with the participation of private individuals in multi-municipal enterprises and, more often than not, an entirely risk-free participation for economic groups, which is no longer rare in these operations — profits to the private, damages to the State. All these processes of submission of a public service indispensable to market logic will meet the criteria and high environmental standards we urgently need. in this model, always prevails the most advantageous option from the point of view of profit, even if the option passes through landfill and not by the recovery of waste; even if it means more odors, pests and discomforts for the populations, in order not to have to invest properly, as we have seen. Together with a weak sector control policy, all of this places Portugal away from national targets at the level of urban waste and makes a certain action urgent. of 5, 3 million tonnes produced in Portugal in 2019, only 13 % was recycled. In addition, half of the Urban Waste Management Systems selectively collect only 10 % of the total waste and only five of the systems have a selective collection percentage of more than 20 %. The overwhelming majority of waste, 58 %, already has landfill as destination. This reality well demonstrates the lack of investment in the sector and the commitment of environmentally more sustainable solutions, with a profit-oriented practice and not by the public service to which these systems would be required. It is for all this that the CFP, which has already proposed the recovery of the public control of EGF, insists on not letting the problems accumulate, as do waste in the landfills of this country, bringing forward a new proposal for the creation of an enlarged programme for monitoring and evaluating the Urban Waste Management Systems, accompanied by a programme of measures to increase recycling. We need to discipline the sector and we need to know its performance on all scales. It is with this assessment that strategic options should be defined. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as our urban waste system is concerned, however efficient and comprehensive it is our recycling, it is not possible to respond to environmental challenges without addressing the fundamental issue of reduction. Furthermore, the reduction takes the place at the top of the waste management hierarchy, because only by producing fewer waste will we be able to avoid harmful consequences for health and the environment, from these materials and from the operations of their management technology. So why are we dealing with an absurd number of packagings that are totally expendable, such as basic food or hygiene products wrapped in bags, bags, envelopes, boxes and more promotional adhesives? The answer is simple: because the presentation and packaging of products is made to promote consumerism, is defined by marketing strategies to sell more, encourages people to buy products that do not need or whose packaging is manifestly exaggerated. And all this means not only a waste of resources, as it ends up being paid by the people themselves. When the producer or distributor opts for this type of packaging and charges the consumer, the consumer not only pays the packaging that he does not want and does not need how he still has to pay the corresponding management rate. And what we're saying here again is that there's a need for consistency. Either you defend the environment or you don't. It is not worth defending only when this aligns with the powerful economic interests. What we propose is only the sense, the logic: that rules are defined for packaging, that they serve exclusively their purpose, and that the presentation of the products should meet only their real needs, with the use of the minimum materials and packaging and opt for reusable packaging, always ensuring the safety and quality of the products. Mrs. Members, a year ago, did not want to approve this proposal from the CFP and argued with the European packaging directive. PS, CDS, IL and PSD prevented an important step. Today, a year back, we asked what is the excuse not to drastically reduce unnecessary waste. Is it not really the time to match intentions with actions in protecting the environment? We think this is the ideal time and that this is a rational, fair step that gives a clear message of environmental defense. Let's move on. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u19	To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u20	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The results of waste management in Portugal are scandalous. We had as a target in 2020 a 10 % reduction in waste production compared to 2012 and increased by 13 % by 2019. In the recycling chapter, we are not mistaken: we have prepared 41 % of the waste for recycling, but we only recycled 15 %. Therefore, this differential was incinerated or terrorized. We reached 2020 far from the targets we should achieve in reducing waste, landfilling and recycling. In the area of waste, which is governed by the policy of the three Rs — to reduce, reuse and recycling — the first major objective is to reduce waste production, to reduce waste. That is precisely what the NAP initiative is proposing today. The NAP intends, at a first level of action, that by promoting the ecodesign of primary packaging and minimizing the use of secondary and tertiary packaging, waste production will be reduced. There are certain products on the market that are marketed with several packages which, having promotional and commercial objectives, do not serve quality or food safety purposes. And, in these cases, the consumer, when buying them, cannot reject the various packages involving the product. After purchase, at home, these superfluous and useless packagings from the point of view of the preservation or quality of the products are, in seconds, thrown into the trash. It's trash! They're waste that can be avoided! But let's go to the examples, so we can figure out what we're talking about. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a pack of cookies.]] Cracker bubbles, which exist on all shelves of supermarkets. It's a marathon until we can consume a cookie: there's the outside pack, plus a card pack and another plastic pack. Three packs to consume a cookie! [[The speaker displayed a pack containing a toothpaste.]] Toothpaste: the outer packaging has no purpose but the commercial purpose. [[The speaker also displayed a package containing carrots.]] Belts : packed in rigid plastic and with a plastic wrapper. It's more plastic than carrots! [[The speaker displayed bananas involved in plastic.]] Fruit: bananas involved in plastic. [[The speaker also displayed a pack containing potatoes.]] And the cherry on the top of the cake: potatoes in a hard plastic box. This is the paradigm of the futility of the production and excessive consumption of our society and which you encourage and feed. But the problem is not that it is happening, the problem is called PS and PSD, because they have doubts in the approval of this NAP proposal and because they continue to put the interests of economic agents ahead of environmental protection. It matters, ladies and gentlemen. Members, legislate and work together with industry to ensure their economic objectives, but also the environmental sustainability of their activities. We defend that packaging should favour best ecological design practices, giving priority to the use of recyclable, single-material, reusable materials and with the use of the minimum of resources, while ensuring the quality and safety of the packaged product. These are the practices that will allow a reduction in packaging waste. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have failed a lot as a country in achieving the objectives of waste policy. We cannot fail, too, in the contribution that we can now make, so we need to mobilize all of us, and we all approve the legislative initiatives that contribute to the fulfilment of the great plan of the three Rs — to reduce, reuse and recycling. The planet, which is the home of all of us, has to be above commercial interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, be sensible, be consistent with the environmental commitment they say they have taken. [[CH's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u21	After this graphic, excessively graphic speech by Mr André Silva, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[The speaker's laughs.]] This is a matter where Portugal has failed... Continued laughter of the speaker.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u23	Mr President, you may laugh, but laughter counts for time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u24	I know, I know! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I have a short time today, I am not going to address Mr André Silva specific questions about the elements he brought us, I do not know if from home, if from a supermarket, but I am going to ask the Socialist Party what it means by 'collective methodologies that favour the polluter-payer principle'. I think it's important that we have the notion of this: we're failing. Last year, we signed the famous plastic pact and still in January we knew that only 13 % are recycled. As regards urban waste, as the CFP said, the figures are even below the European average. But all this will be nothing if we fail to explain to taxpayers that more fees will have to pay to sustain irresponsible policies of the environment. And it was important for us to tell them how much more they will pay, what they will pay more and how they will pay more, because we can actually have different environmental policies but there is one thing we cannot do in Portugal. We cannot continue to increase tax pressure on taxpayers, continue to place on those who work, on those who pay taxes, more pressure and more tax burden. That is what we have to say: what we want and what we go to. And if the Socialist Party wants more fees, it must have the responsibility to say what, how much and how the Portuguese will pay. This is the principle of transparency applied to the polluter-payer. We must have the courage to say that, after all, we are responsible and we will do better, not only when the elections are passed and the votes counted. Have the courage and tell the Portuguese how much they will pay more, how they will pay and what they will pay to sustain irresponsible policies that stay well on paper, but that put the Portuguese increasingly poor, with less and less money and with less and less ability to look dignifiedly at the other partners in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u25	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies. I was distracted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u26	That is what I would like you to say: how much we will pay, how much we will feel ashamed to do. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u27	It's banana credit! [[PSD and CH laughter.]] For an intervention, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing various projects on waste, packaging and recycling, projects that have some positive aspects and to which we are sensitive. But some of them are sent by ideological visions that limit them and three of them are even re-presentations of initiatives that have been plunged into this same Plenary, see there, less than a year ago. We live times of government disorientation and obviously distancement from the environmental goals with which we are committed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u29	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u30	So there may be good intentions in some of these projects, but believe me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that this frenzy and this championship to see who recommends more to a government that does not hear any recommendations only contribute at this stage — and I will explain why — to reinforce the existing legislative balcony. We have a government that tries to show that it does what it does not do and we have an orphan waste sector of a fulfilling and ambitious state. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for Mr Environment to come to this House to respond to a request unanimously approved by all sides of this House to explain this absolute chaos. Even yesterday, we completed the parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 and guaranteed a moratorium on the sudden increase in TGR. We have ensured that transparency reports are mandatory and, on a proposal from the PSD, we ensure that if the government and the Environmental Fund continue without doing their part they will have to return money to municipalities and municipalities, tired of paying fees and taxes without seeing results. We have scheduled, for 25 March, the parliamentary review of the new General Residue Management Scheme, which deals with the issues that these projects bring here today, so we will be able to take a look at them. It is a diploma that transposed several European directives, which has hundreds of pages, which was published without a public consultation report, a public consultation that had only 15 days of duration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u31	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u32	... and that it is challenged by all stakeholders in the sector, since, since it has been published, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time you have more pages rectifications than the projects we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u33	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u34	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this inaction, this incompetence and this lack of government strategy must be stopped. Our appeal is that we can maintain the focus to ensure that these changes are actually implemented. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u35	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with the amendment to the General Residue Management Regime, which has brought not only an imbalance to the sector but also a penalty to the citizen. There was a huge disagreement that led the National Association of Municipalities to take a position, as well as several municipalities a little across the country, due to the significant increase in the waste management rate. Last year you paid anything like €11 per tonne, this year you pay €22 per tonne and the "good" news is that until 2025 you will pay anything like €35 per tonne. So in five years the rate is tripled, something typically left-wing, something typically socialist and unfortunately not surprising. The Socialist Party and the left understand that it is increasing a rate that we are going to induce new behaviors. As much as we can here insist, argue and present data, what is true is that they insist on the same measures. The CDS has been saying that the user-payer principle should be applied. But when we look at, for example, urban waste, public waste — which has been subsidized, over the last decades, with low rates, such as the non-urban sector, the private sector — we find today that there is some kind of password when we try to combine everything and end the delimitation between the sectors. The non-urban sector, such a private sector, has already sent such 10 % to land, which is the maximum objective in terms of circular economy. When everything gets mixed up, what you realize is that the public system doesn't meet the goals. And now the private system gets in place and then, there, it's all masked, it's all makeup.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u37	But what public system?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u38	Mr President, we all know that there is a lot of improvement in landfills, selective collection, recycling, hazardous waste, used oils, industrial waste, in all this. There's a lot to do! But there is one thing that the government is totally indifferent to: lowering the TGR. Denial! He pretends he's nothing to do with it, he keeps that rate at the same rate, and what matters is the financial impact. Environmental Outcome? You don't want to know that for nothing! The evidence of this is well present in a debate we have had recently. It is very nice to come to say « we have goals for the environment », « we are taking great measures », « we are doing this and the other», but then when we get to concrete cases... [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's protests.]] Mr President, I give you an example in which, perhaps, you will no longer say anything: Matosinhos refinery, Leça da Palmeira. That's why it's important to keep the refinery. What is a refinery? It's a distillery of oil! But in such cases, you appear to say: "No! We must maintain the refinery, there are the jobs, there is this and that...". [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's laughs.]] Sir, don't laugh, you're not funny! They want to keep the distillery in Matosinhos, but they come here — one with a bag of bananas, another with conversation, sorry, a little bit of crap there — say: “No, we are the advocates of the environment! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So, what environmental advocates are these who want to keep a refinery in Matosinhos? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u39	For the end of this debate, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr José Carpinteira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is sensitive to projects aimed at promoting good environmental practices and waste reduction. in this context, it is important to highlight the concerns that are on the basis of the initiatives under discussion and that are also taken by the Government in the context of measures to improve waste management. In addition, the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action has continued policies to reduce the production of waste in origin, as clearly stated in Decree-Law No 102 / 2020. Thus, existing legislation already includes a set of measures, mostly obligations, for industry, distribution, retail and restoration, with a view to promoting the sustained reduction in the consumption of single-use packages and the increase in re-use of packaging on the market. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we want an economy that works well and also responds to the challenge of climate change, a global challenge, then we have to change production and consumption habits. National and Community legislation is taking this path, but it is also important to develop an environmental policy involving the population, especially the younger ones, in the need to change the consumption paradigm, preventing, reusing and valuing when waste production cannot be avoided. The challenge of climate change is not only solved by decree, but also by the behavior of each of us. This is a challenge that summons all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u42	It is in this context that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents this draft resolution, which recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to strengthen the selective collection. It is a contribution left to the consideration of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u43	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we conclude the debate on the first item on our agenda, so we will move on to the joint debate of draft resolutions Nos 238 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation and enforcement of measures to combat obesity, 763 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and combat obesity and 244 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of integrated measures to prevent and combat obesity. We will start the debate with which you have allocated it and in this sense you have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The World Health Organization ( WHO ) defines obesity as an abnormal or excessive accumulation of body fat that can achieve levels that can negatively affect everyone's health. It is a disease that affects men and women of all ages and is a risk factor widely recognized by the medical community for cardiovascular diseases, thus being one of the main causes of death susceptible to prevention. WHO considered obesity to be a 21st century epidemic, taking into account the fact that it affects both men and women in any country, anywhere in the world, even though it has a greater expression in developed countries. Portugal, unfortunately, does not run away from the rule of the developed countries. According to the Directorate-General for Health, and based on the results of the National Food and Physical Activity Survey (IAN-AF), excess weight reached more than one quarter of the children and adolescents in 2015 and more than half of the adult population. According to data from 2020, the OECD's health report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), Portuguese young people – alongside Italians, French and Danish – are among the least physically active people per day. The school therefore assumes a fundamental importance in combating this disease. The most recent data indicate that, in Portugal, the prevalence of obesity, weighted for the distribution of the Portuguese population, is about 22, 3 % and the prevalence of pre-obesity at national level, is almost 35 %. In other words, excess weight (pre-obesity and obesity) reaches more than half of the national population, becoming a serious public health problem. Despite the size of the problem, undeniable for all, the treatment of obesity still presents, at national level, large proportions of failure and little uniformity in the procedures. Today, we also know that this disease is one of the factors that exacerbates the risk of death by COVID-19. The current pandemic and its social and economic consequences mean an increased risk, with regard to food, and can be translated into a trigger for worse or more poor food choices, to which a lower physical activity is added, as a result of the confinement periods. We cannot also neglect the frequent link between the risk of obesity and potential mental health problems, also aggravated by the pandemic context. It is widely recognized the need to prevent obesity even before adolescence, and throughout life, but also to provide adequate means of treatment to reduce the prevalence of overweight in the Portuguese population. This theme is not new. In 2005 the National Program for Combating Obesity was established and, more recently, the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food. However, the implementation of these programmes — as the figures and reality show — has fallen far short of what is expected, in an issue that, firstly, affects such a high percentage of the Portuguese population and, secondly, is one of the main causes of death that can be prevented. The focus on prevention needs to be reviewed and improved. Analyze dietary habits in a regular way and guide the policies to be followed based on the results, strengthen the role of nutrition and psychology in the National Health Service (NSS), increase public awareness of food choices, strengthen and encourage the practice of physical activity and healthy lifestyles, particularly from school and adolescence, and train all citizens for conscious choices are some of the fundamental points in prevention work. But on the other hand, in the treatment, it is important to ensure that drugs currently used and properly authorized by Infarmed in the fight against obesity are shared by the SNS, taking into account its high cost, which makes access difficult to behave by Portuguese families. We also need to ensure that all the centers of surgical treatment of obesity, as well as the centers of high differentiation in the surgical treatment of this disease, are empowered to reach the level of medical service necessary for effective treatment of obesity in our population. The strategy is clear and widely recognized in the medical and scientific community: life prevention to reduce the need for treatment; treatment services to support affected people; and, finally, early intervention to improve the success of treatments. On the basis of the numbers, we can assume that the prevention of obesity is failing and the treatment is insufficient. It is urgent to strengthen prevention and ensure the right means of treatment. The Assembly of the Republic has a duty to alert the Government and demand more action on a crucial issue for the health of Portuguese. This is the PSD alert. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u45	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Obesity is, according to the World Health Organization, a disease in which excess accumulated body fat can reach degrees capable of affecting health. It is associated with more than 200 other diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension, sleep apnea, cardiovascular diseases and about 13 types of cancer, which is still responsible for infertility and depression, i.e. for decreased quality of life, even increasing mortality. This complex and multifactorial disease is one of the main problems of the 21st century, having already reached epidemic proportions. In fact, obesity has a prevalence equal to or greater than that of malnutrition and infectious diseases and, if no drastic measures are taken for its prevention and treatment, more than 50% of the world's population will be obese in 2025. We therefore speak of a chronic disease, with prevalence in developed countries. According to an OECD report, Portugal appears fourth in the list of countries with the highest rate of overweight population compared with the OECD average. In Portugal, the figures are clear : 67, 6 % of the population above 15 years of age is overweight or obese and is no less worrying about obesity in children between 5 and 9 years of age, with a prevalence of 37, 1 %. Between 2020 and 2050, excess weight and associated diseases will reduce life expectancy in about three years in the OECD and European Union countries. In Portugal, the estimate points to a reduction of 2, 2 years in this period. A study by the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge, released in March 2020, concludes that more than half of Portuguese are obese or pre-obese. And several studies indicate that numbers increase from year to year. It becomes imperative to prevent and establish a strategy to combat obesity. We are still far from achieving the desired objectives, and it is urgent to prevent and combat the disease, especially among young people, by combating discrimination against obese patients, guaranteeing their rights to dignified and safe treatment conditions. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable that Portugal, one of the first countries to consider obesity as disease, has so far not been involved in the treatment of obesity, preventing many citizens from accessing treatments, which has to be quickly corrected, since the data point to a higher prevalence of the disease among the most disadvantaged population. from an economic point of view, what is being done is not to share the treatment, to prevent the multiple associated diseases, so later they will have to be treated. As for the National Program for Combating Obesity, the results will only arise if it is properly implemented, without forgetting the importance of multidisciplinary interventions and the realization of a set of integrated public policies that adequately respond to this great challenge. Therefore, it is essential to improve monitoring of obese patients, strengthening the human and material resources in the SNS, so that it is possible to make an early diagnosis and bet on promoting better health education. In short, primary prevention policies are needed, by encouraging the adoption of healthier lifestyles, greater access of patients to health care for the treatment of obesity, in order to reduce the prevalence of associated diseases and ensure better quality of life, bearing in mind that we are still far from integrated, equitable and timely access to these care.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u47	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Obesity is, according to the World Health Organization, a serious disease characterized by abnormal or excessive accumulation of body fat, affecting people of all ages and genders. The prevalence of obesity is already higher than malnutrition and infectious diseases, which is defined as the epidemic of the 21st century. Obesity is, worldwide, the second cause of avoidable death, followed by smoking. Portugal is fourth among OECD countries with higher rates of overweight population. About 62 % of Portuguese are in conditions of obesity or pre-obesity. If, on the one hand, in the genesis of obesity, there may be non-modifiable genetic factors, in many cases, this condition is closely related to behavioral factors that may be altered, including sedentaryism and unhealthy eating habits. We're the ones we eat. This should be a popular expression well present in our realities. And we are what we have eaten since the beginning of our life, beginning in pregnancy and throughout all life cycles. For the NAP, obesity must be combated early and essentially through prevention, from the outset: accompanying pregnant women; preventing maternal diabetes, by the impact of this condition on the weight of babies; in the prevention of high or low weight of babies, by the consequences of this in their future health; in promoting conditions for breastfeeding during the first two years of life of children, measures more than proven by international and national health organizations. Despite some existing measures and policies, the prevalence of childhood obesity in Portugal is very worrying — at 8 years of age, 15% of children are already considered obese and, of these, 5 % have severe obesity. The scientific community and the Directorate-General for Health alert to the need for changes in our behaviors and eating habits, remembering that food and the way we feed have a direct impact on our quality of life and health. But it's not enough to recommend! Public health policies must be consistent in the way society as a whole is organized. We cannot defend national combat against obesity and at the same time devalue the impact of advertising on unhealthy food that enters our home every day. You can't talk about changing eating behaviors and giving a sign contrary to children and families, making daily available in schools, chocolate milk packages. The Nutrition Order Office says that it is not conceivable that, at a time when there is excessive sugar consumption, we are giving milk to children. Unfortunately, we know that the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party, before caring for the health and interests of children, take care of the protection of the polluter and cruel milk industry. Priorities... We know the prevalence of childhood obesity, but we continue to have values of meals for students so low that they make it difficult to guarantee a nutritionally tailored supply to the needs of students, at a stage where food has such an essential role in the physical and cognitive development of children and young people. We also heard that there is a need to combat sedentaryism, but the conditions and practice of physical education in schools are devalued. The real change happens only when information is clear and coherent, when it extends to the whole society and without giving in to the interests that have overlapd with health. For the NAP, without prejudice to the answers needed for all those suffering from this disease, the focus should be on prevention, integrating nutrition and psychology professionals into schools, municipalities, SNS into social equipment. Portugal continues to invest much less than other European countries in preventive health. Public health policies need to increasingly focus on prevention so that we can, in fact, speak against obesity, minimizing their impact on health, improving people's quality of life and ensuring greater sustainability in the National Health Service. The NAP proposal has this role, pointing to concerted and integrated measures to combat obesity, in a life-long health perspective, focusing on disease prevention in various contexts of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u50	In conclusion, I would like to say that we value the PSD project, which aims to boost responses and support for the treatment of people who suffer from obesity, but we consider this to be a scourge whose fight is mainly done through prevention – in which the PSD does not touch its project – and not at the end of the process, when suffering, the risk of associated diseases and even death itself may have been installed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u51	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to the National Health Survey 2019, obesity is a disease that affects 1, 5 million adults in Portugal, i.e. the equivalent of 17% of our population. If we consider OECD statistics at Health at a Glance: Europe 2020, the numbers are even higher, with 29% at home. These values place Portugal as the third European country with the highest prevalence of obesity only behind Hungary and Turkey. At this rate it is estimated that in 2025 there will be 2 million people with obesity in Portugal. Our country and our society will become more ill and more vulnerable to other related diseases. In this regard, I recall that with COVID-19, it has already been noted that, for example, in the ICUs (intensive care units) of the Hospital of São João, it was found that half of the patients were overweight and that this was a factor relevant to the aggravated situation of these patients. Impacts on people's lives and quality of life are real and economic impacts are increasing despite the health system. They are therefore clear both the benefit and the urgency of strengthening a policy to combat obesity, acting, as has already been said, in prevention. There are still many prejudices around this disease and many of them allow the idea that you are obese because you want it or because you only have a poor diet. It is therefore important to highlight both the genetic dimension and the socio-economic dimension of this chronic disease, in addition to the questions related to the lifestyle that involve the promotion of physical exercise and healthy diet. Therefore, prevention is also - in a very important way, the treatment and our current and insufficient access to this treatment - both from the point of view of consultations, in a multidisciplinary approach, or from the pharmacological point of view - in which State participation fails roughly. in this sense, the CDS has also submitted a recommendation to the Government that we would like to see discussed in the Commission, symbolically, around 4 March, the World Obesity Day. Therefore, we also join in these proposals by drawing attention to the urgency of this disease and accompanying the initiatives under discussion, particularly those that develop a comprehensive view and a multidisciplinary approach to prevention and greater and better access to treatments.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u53	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Pre-obesity and obesity are an important public health problem in Portugal and the world. In Portugal, more than half of the population is overweight or obese. In this regard, we must take into account, from the outset, the fact that obesity, more than a disease, is also a risk factor, but can be altered by having impacts on the emergence of other diseases, including diabetes, hypertension, cancer, respiratory failure, osteoarticular problems and even premature death. In fact, there are costs for the quality and health of those who suffer from obesity, but there are also costs for the National Health Service. There is, however, something that we cannot forget, Mr President. Members, which is the fact that there is one part of the population more vulnerable to obesity than the other, especially women, children and the elderly. Therefore, obesity does not only require pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment, it requires, above all, prevention. I would like to refer to the projects under discussion in relation to three aspects which they address very superficially or which they do not even address. The first has to do with physical activity, which certainly brings benefits both for the quality of life and for the well-being of the populations who practice it. It is also directly linked to the prevention of obesity and non-communicable diseases and problems. Therefore, we must not fail to demand that physical activity programs be created, not only in schools, but also in the context of work activity, finally in the entire active population, because it is essential for weight loss and also for maintaining the ideal weight. One aspect that none of the projects touches has to do with the relationship between the social condition and the selection of foods. This is an important aspect, because obesity is not just a physical disease, it is also a social issue. Many feel that the existence of obesity and poverty is contradictory, but in fact they are intrinsically related, that is, the food choices of each one, today, up to the economic and social context in which we find ourselves, are made based on the price and not on the nutritional and food quality of the products. Therefore, social inequality is something that fails in these projects and is something that is closely linked to inequality in health, because obesity is prevalent in more disadvantaged social layers. For this same reason, we must promote the conditions to combat this social inequality, including low wages, long working days that influence eating habits and patterns, precariousness and unemployment. Another issue that also fails in these projects has to do with primary health care. If there is a health area in which we should intervene it is in the primary health care area, so that it has effects on the prevention of obesity. It is clear that we need nutritionists, psychologists and even physiotherapists and technicians who promote physical activity and that we need the doctor and family nurse to be able to identify and track the pre-obese person, so that preventive treatment is started as soon as possible. To conclude, I want to say the following: of course, it is incomprehensible that pharmacological treatment is not shared. Even as I said, the most economically disadvantaged layers are more likely to be obese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u55	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. If the medicines for obesity are not shared, then the medicines for coronary diseases, such as diabetes and others, will be shared. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u57	For an intervention, Mrs Cristina Jesus of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the initiatives on obesity discussed today, because it recognizes the relevance of the topic and reaffirms its commitment to mobilizing the means and the best public policies to address it. Obesity is a serious public health problem and we must mobilize the whole society to the need for its prevention. Obesity is a chronic and complex disease and Portugal was among the first countries in the world to recognize obesity as a chronic disease in 2004. Data from the National Health Survey 2019 show that 53, 6 % of the Portuguese adult population is overweight and obesity affects 1, 5 million people. in this discussion, we cannot be tempted to pretend that we start from the zero point. There is a path of measures that have been adopted over time and which have to be recognised and evaluated. Only in this way do we guarantee the ability to do better and achieve better results. Portugal began a new strategy to combat obesity with the creation of the Platform Against Obesity in 2007, which focused on primary prevention. This was a recommendation of the European Charter against Obesity, signed by Portugal in 2006. Currently, the Directorate-General of Health has a solid action in combating obesity, based on two priority health programs, the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Food and the National Programme for the Promotion of Physical Activity, which act in two modifiable risk factors of obesity: inadequate eating habits and physical inactivity. The National Plan for the Promotion of Healthy Food has implemented, over recent years, a set of measures to improve the eating habits of the Portuguese population, based on the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the European Commission and the assessment of the nutritional status of the Portuguese population. In the last report on the period 2019 - 2020, there is a strong investment in assessing the results of these measures implemented, of which only a few are highlighted here. The first is a campaign to promote healthy food entitled « Eat better, a recipe for life ». The second relates to the definition of the nutritional profile within the framework of the regulation of food advertising aimed at under 16 years of age. Here, it is good to highlight that Portugal is of the first countries to have a law that regulates food advertising to children, in which, among others, are defined the food profile to be restricted, as well as the regulation of digital marketing. The third measure is the assessment of the impact of excise duties on sugared beverages, which was part of the State budget for 2019. Finally, we have the implementation of nutritional screening in hospital care. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a priority area that has not been, nor can it be forgotten, that has already been addressed: the reduction of inequalities in health and access to adequate food, the prevalence of obesity. The paradigm of food support programmes for the most deprived people, with the creation of healthy food casks, was changed within the framework of the Operational Programme for Support for the Most Deprived People. Secondary prevention has not been forgotten in this plan either. We know that much of the cases of pre-obesity and obesity are not being identified in health institutions, as has already been mentioned. It is therefore necessary to reorganize our health services to increase the ability to respond to diagnosis and treatment of obesity. It is in this sense that a pilot project is being designed by the government for the implementation of the integrated care process of pre-obesity, which provides a model of care based on early identification and intervention in the area of obesity in primary health care. In the area of treatment, it is important to highlight the new care model, the Integrated Responsibility Centres (ICR), which some hospitals are already using for the area of obesity. This new model may help increase accessibility and decrease response times. In the context of strengthening the SNS, as regards human resources, 40 nutritionists are being recruited, who will also play a key role in this fight. The measures implemented over the past few years have already shown some results. The decrease in childhood obesity between 2008 and 2019 is already a good indicator of these results. The prevalence of overweight and childhood obesity had a 22% reduction in this period. These results are good and force us to continue to do better, not only the Government and the Assembly of the Republic, but all society: the associations of patients, who have played a fundamental role, schools, businesses and, of course, health professionals. The PS will be, as always, next to everyone in this urgent work, every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u59	It is the time of Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before living the pandemic that we are experiencing from the disease COVID-19, the World Health Organization was already alerting to another pandemic, a global pandemic caused by obesity, considered by WHO a global pandemic of the 21st century. It's important not to forget this. Indeed, it is not a style figure when the World Health Organization says that obesity is a pandemic, because if we look at numbers and impacts, we realize that there is a high prevalence of obesity disease. For example, in Portugal, about 25% of children and adolescents are obese or pre-obese and about 50% of the adult population is obese or pre-obese. Obesity has, in fact, serious impacts on individual health and on public health itself, being a risk factor for many other diseases—some have already been remembered—e.g. cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, etc. , and leading to loss of quality of life and even significant loss of years of life. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen know this, they already said it. Obesity obviously has several causes. It may result from some individual susceptibility, whether it is genetic, whether it is biological, but it also has causes that are related, for example, to physical activity, or to the dietary patterns of each and every one of us. There are also several approaches to your treatment. There is indeed a more medicinal and/or surgical approach that, in fact, has a very significant focus, for example, in the draft resolution submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group. But there is another approach that, to us, even seems to be the most important one and that in which we should invest more, which is the preventive approach, that is to say, to prevent it from getting there, to change behaviors to prevent it from reaching the disease of obesity. The truth is, for example, in a recent past, the Left Block Parliamentary Group even brought this House, for discussion and vote, a draft resolution and a very concrete proposal, which met this need for prevention and change of certain eating habits. What was that project? Oh, my God! It was a project for the creation of what we call « nutritional light». All food packaged in its packaging should have this « nutritional light ». What is this "nutritional light"? Oh, my God! It is a quick, simple and intuitive way to understand whether a particular food has, or not, excess salt, fat, sugar, etc. Curiously, and unfortunately, this project was rejected. The Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Democratic Social Party and the CDS-PP did not follow this project. He was rejected because there were parties in this Assembly of the Republic that did not follow the project that we continue to consider essential for the prevention and improvement of eating habits. This debate now seems to result in a greater awareness of this nutritional and food issue, the prevention of obesity and, of course, other pathologies that have a bearing on the nutritional and food issue. So the Left Block would like to inform the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the parties many arguments and much discussion based on the interests of the food industry. What we have to have in this discussion is the interest in public health and we hope that next time it will prevail in the debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u61	To close the debate, Mr Alexandre Poço, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the debate we have had, it is clear that this disease and this problem need a preventive approach and also a treatment approach. The PSD project is clear when it refers to the need to strengthen treatment, whether from the pharmacological point of view, whether from the surgical point of view, but also not to forget — in my intervention, and in the project itself, the third measure is clear — the need to bet on preventive measures. What we cannot do, in favour of the honesty with which we are discussing this issue and this problem, is only and only list all the programmes, all the strategies, all the guidelines and measures that are in the role, but which do not have concrete and practical results. It is that, if all the programs and strategies and all that is in the role were reality, we did not have one in every four obese or pre-obese young people or one in every two Portuguese with excess weight. That is, something is failing, and that is the message the PSD would like to bring to this debate. Yes, the approach has to be global. Yes, the approach requires a lot of preventive approach and a lot of focus in children, adolescents, so that this theme is not, as is expected to become, increasingly a generational bomb-watch. But we cannot just be satisfied with the programs that are already on the table, because the data deny the possibility of these programs being successful. That's the call the PSD would like to leave. That is why we decided to bring the debate this draft resolution, because of the seriousness of the topic, but above all, because I believe that there has been time, there is a capacity for action to solve this problem, because if we do nothing, we will be condemning not only young people and children, but also older people and adults with a lower quality of life. That is why the PSD presented this initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u63	We will move on to the third point of our agenda, which deals with the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 647 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Protection of the rights of workers of culture in a pandemic and economic crisis in 2021, 663 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Creates extraordinary support for cultural equipment and the culture sector, 669 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary cultural and artistic support measures and 670 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the protection of professionals in the culture sector in the context of COVID-19 together with the Resolution Project No 647 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures to enhance cultural professionals and to ensure that support for cultural professionals covers all workers in the areas of shows and events. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The culture was of the first sectors to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The shows were canceled, the museums were closed, the cinemas closed. in a sector marked by job insecurity, by the absence of a specific work and social protection regime, with production structures characterized by micro and small enterprises, the deprotection of workers is total. The government's support has not been sufficient and does not reach all workers and all workers. Circumcision workers, artisans, visual artists, actors and actresses, musicians, educators, technicians of various specialties are almost a year away from working, they have been almost a year without income, they have been with life suspended for almost a year, in the dramatic situation of not knowing how to pay the bills, with many people resorting to solidarity cassavas to survive. The mobilization of cultural workers, through demonstrations and other initiatives, has denounced the structural problems, the situation of economic and social crisis which deepens, the low value of support and the time too long for its allocation, demanding the implementation of more comprehensive measures, with less bureaucracy, that effectively reach all workers and all workers. It should be noted that since the announcement of extraordinary support on 14 January, confinement has already been extended, as was foreseeable, and, incomprehensiblely, the duration of the support has not undergone any change. It remains for one month and has not been extended for three months, as it should have happened. The design of the support, the rules impossible to comply and the condition of resources leave out thousands of workers and workers and reveal the deep ignorance of the Ministry of Culture of all activity that does not have direct funding and how the workers in the sector unfold in various activities, being covered by several codes of economic activity. In the Bill No. 328 / XIV / 1. the, we presented amendments to Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March. We defend an emergency programme with three fundamental measures: the strengthening of the Ministry of Culture's budget by 10%; the simplification of applications for cultural projects in isolation times, deepening support for public and private cultural structures and equipment; mechanisms to ensure full compliance with public, national or municipal commitments, as well as public funding entities that have cancelled or postponed shows, educational services or cultural activities. These measures have been adopted and have greatly improved the decree-law. However, the obligation level was 50 %. These changes, which are good, did not respond to essential aspects and left the long rearrangement window untied. This was a bad sign given by the government, as evidenced by allegations of failure to pay at least 50 % of the activities scheduled by most municipalities and other public entities. It is urgent to provide an adequate response to the problems of workers and cultural workers. The implementation of robust measures responding to the disaster situation in the sector is imperative. Therefore, we again tabled amendments to Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020, insisting on four points that we consider essential. First of all, public entities which carry out the cancellation or reorganization of initiatives programmed in this period shall guarantee 100 % of the funds provided for payment to workers and workers. Secondly, access to equipment must be ensured for practices essential to the profession that cannot be carried out under telework, i.e. all professionals, dancers and musicians, who, due to the specificity of their profession, cannot stay weeks without exercise, must be able to access their spaces. Thirdly, the value and activities eligible for extraordinary cultural social support should be extended. The minimum support value is 1, 5 IAS ( indexing of social support ). Fourthly, this support should include all natural people who are cultural professionals in publishing activities, artistic activities of shows and literarys, library activities, archives, museums and other cultural activities and also activities of amusement parks and themes. In addition to correcting structural problems, which is fundamental to combating chronic precariousness and ensuring the effectiveness of working bonds, we must protect workers and workers of culture. Support must reach all and ensure that people survive, to ensure that culture survives and that culture will exist after the pandemic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u65	For an intervention by the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crisis we live in has brought negative impacts to all sectors of society, but has reached in particular the culture sector, with thousands of technicians and artists without work or livelihoods, which almost a year ago are stopped and without expectations of when they will be able to return to active. from music to dance, to theatre, to comedy, are numerous examples of sectors that are today stopped and without support, although historically they represent the identity of our country and the resistance that helped Portugal to follow the path of democracy or to strengthen the spirit of solidarity in the different difficult times our country has gone through. A cultured society, aware of its past and having a strengthened cultural sector is, without a doubt, a better, more tolerant, more supportive, civilized society with a greater capacity for progress and resistance. However, the precariousness that this sector has been left or little or no investment in culture is, as we know, the mark of the successive governments that have been in power. And the Socialist Party has been no exception. If this was not acceptable before the pandemic crisis, much less now after the socio-economic crisis we are facing. We must recognize, more than ever, that in the years before, thousands of people have worked precariously in the cultural sector, that many have waited for a status of the intermittent who never left the Ministry of Culture drawer and that these cases do not fit in the support that was decreed by the government, barring in the bureaucratic mesh of access to them. It is absolutely unacceptable that people who have worked in the cultural sector have to face a bureaucratic monster that requires them to prove everything and something else, as if we were talking about opportunists or ridiculers. We are talking about people who over the years have not been sufficiently supported by the State and are now just trying to survive and support their families. With regard to the announced EUR 42 million in support of culture, but which will only start working « by the end of March » in the words of the Minister, or to the alleged access to extraordinary support, whose access is blocked by bureaucratic mesh, the question that is being asked, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, how are the professionals in the culture sector going to pay their bills up there? This when we all know that at this very moment there are professionals who are starving, there are professionals who do not have to pay their food and that of their children, who do not have to pay the rent of the house or who do not even have to pay the basic expenses of water and light. At the same time as these professionals, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have historical equipment, such as the Maria Vitória Theatre, which has been closed since November, or the The Barraca Theatre, among many other examples, dance schools, cinemas, cinemas, cinemas, activities such as the contemporary circus or street arts, where the situation is dramatic given that it is at the limit of its capabilities, with an abrupt reduction of its audience and also its funding resulting from its normal functioning. It is urgent to support thousands of workers in the cultural sector. It is urgent to create conditions for them to survive the health crisis, ensuring that these people have access to support that enables them to cope, in a simplified way, with the difficulties that they face and ensure that there is a future in Portugal for culture. But the maintenance of the jobs of the cultural sector cannot be ensured, we know well, without also ensuring the survival of the cultural enclosures, so that they are no longer closing without even knowing when they will open their doors. With the initiative that the NAP brings today, together with support for cultural professionals, intends to support these equipment by providing 50 % compensation for treasury expenditure relating to the months of November and December 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. We well know that at this time it is not enough to deal with the damage and difficulties these entities face, but it is a contribution that can make all the difference and that it can keep many cultural spaces that currently seriously view the possibility of closing doors and firing people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the culture of our country faces an unfair struggle, and today the Assembly of the Republic, through the initiatives presented, can make a difference and put an end to this grave injustice. We know we're on the right side! During the intervention, images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u67	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: February 18, 2021 — Thousands of cultural workers access, impatient, form D made available on the portal We are on to apply for the social support line to artists, authors, technicians and other cultural professionals. In point 2 of that form, under the heading « Characterisation of professional activity » it is referred to that for this support line are eligible exclusively independent workers who, on 1 January 2020, are registered in the finances with one of the following EACs ( classification of economic activity) as principal activity : 59110, 59120, 59130, 59140, 59200, 90010, 90020 or 90030. Or with one of the following CIRS codes as main activity: 1314, 2010, 2011, 2019, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 3010 and 3019. The revolt of many workers of culture with precarious ties was not expected, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. One of them, still today, said the following: « And again, 1519, ‘service delivery’, in my case audiovisual services, as I write in every receipt that passes, will not be entitled to anything». Another failed: "They had to ruin everything. We were all wrong with an EAC whatever because we do thousands of things, we changed last year to be eligible and now they tell us this. What now? Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, we say, there can be no excuse for the government to leave someone behind with criteria that are no more than barriers to access to support. Now, as the CFP proposes, it is time to include everyone who needs access to existing benefits. Now we also argue that workers registered with the main activity "1519 - Other service providers" must be covered, provided that the provision of service involves cultural activities. There are people who are still with one « hand forward and another behind ». One year back from cancellations and delays, they could not have access to support. Another worker that we had the opportunity to hear proves this very: « I have an eligible CAE, but I only changed in October because I used to be a secondary CAE and therefore did not receive any words from the PEES ( Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ). by the sights, again, I won't get anything. Do not keep on seeking. ” With the bill presented by the PCP today, we argue that it is necessary to go further in support of the workers of culture, not only extending the universe of subjects, but also increasing the expected values. We therefore propose: that the minimum value of extraordinary social support of culture corresponds to 1, 5 IAS per worker; that this support be periodically monthly as long as the exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic remain in force and that this support is not, as expected at present, a single benefit; that this support be also accumulated with other social support and other benefits. The Portuguese Communist Party reaffirms, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that support cannot leave anyone behind, they have to reach all those they need, and they have to have worthy values, which allow workers and their families to live. That is also why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the support needs to be reached quickly and paid as soon as possible. We're talking about thousands of workers and their families. We are talking about stopping the destruction of the national artistic fabric, which is fundamental to the existence of a true democracy in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u69	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic has ended up exposing further the fragility in the cultural sector, marked by a continuous disinvestment and high job insecurity. The crop closure began in March 2020, adding this sector at the end of last year to more than 70 % losses compared to 2019. We must not forget that it is an industry that has virtually closed doors with the state of emergency and has not yet been able to resume its activity as a result of its successive renovations. In 2020, Decree-Law No 10 - I, which provided for the possibility of performances being cancelled and rescheduled for 2021. It happens that, at that time, no one expected us to live a new confinement this year. What is happening is that the shows that have not been carried out are being postponed with the justification that there are no conditions for promoting them and many municipal chambers are not programming in the face of the instability of the situation. However, artists cannot continue to wait for the shows to be rescheduled and this file cannot continue to serve as a pretext for deferring the payment of 50 % of the agreed price, since this further aggravates the economic situation of the artists and their families. We want to ensure that shows cannot be repeatedly postponed, providing for the possibility that either party may freely oppose the reopening of the show and due payments should be made. It is urgent to ensure the rights of artists and other professionals in the event of the cancellation of shows. Thus, in case of re-schedulement, and without prejudice to the re-scheduled performance, the promoter shall ensure that, on the date on which it was initially scheduled, a minimum amount of 50 % of the contracted value is paid and the remaining amount shall be paid on the re-scheduled date as originally foreseen. In the event of cancellation, the promoter shall pay the full amount of the contract. Finally, there are situations in which public entities add shows, not looking for alternative ways to perform them. We therefore propose that, during the period of validity of these legislative measures, the promoter should, when it comes to a public entity, adapt its format in order to ensure that it is carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u71	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The restrictive measures adopted to combat COVID-19, even if necessary, continue to produce a devastating effect on cultural and creative industries, along with other relevant sectors of our economy. The circumstances in which cultural work develops leave its agents particularly vulnerable to the impacts of the pandemic crisis and increase the volatility and pre-existing inequalities in this sector, which now desperately fights to survive. For an extended view of the situation, the report by consultant Ernst & Young, released on 26 January, Rebuilding Europe, The cultural and creative economy before and after the COVID-19 crisis, indicates a loss of revenue in performance arts of 90% and in music of 75%, estimating that the European culture sector should feel the impact of the pandemic over the next decade. According to this study, culture was more affected than the tourism industry and only marginally less than the aviation industry. It concludes the study which, taking into account its fundamental contribution to the economy in general and potential to help the European Union to emerge from the crisis, the cultural and creative sector must be at the heart of Europe's recovery efforts and recommends a three-fold approach: public support, the capture and promotion of private investment and a strong legal framework to enable the creative economy to revitalize and safeguard its long-term growth and leverage the strength of the sector, multiplying its millions of individual and collective talents. Another study is also being conducted, this centred in Portugal, coordinated by Prof. Manuel Gama, of the University of Minho, who has been measuring the way the pandemic is affecting the sector in our country. Its conclusion is expected by March, but there are already advance preliminary data that say that — and I quote — "in addition to the immediate losses which, in the cross-cutting and sectoral measures, are not able to give a comprehensive response, by the end of 2020, we will be able to see, not only an increase in precariousness, as an increase in the unemployment of professionals in the cultural sector who had previously worked contracts". Unfortunately, despite the tremendous impact of the pandemic on the immediate income of industry professionals, support measures, continuously announced and supposedly constituent the musculated response of the Ministry of Culture, are not adequate or are not sufficient in view of the dramatic reality that the sector lives and has been further aggravated by the current national base confinement. in this understanding, the CDS will enable all the projects under discussion so that they can go down to the Commission and then, where speciality, they can be adjusted, corrected or improved according to the cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u73	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Carla Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To everyone and, on behalf of the PSD, I welcome the authors of the initiatives that we enjoy today. First of all, it's important to remember the way that brought us here. When the first state of emergency was declared, the extraordinary and urgent measures applied inevitably resulted in the cancellation of all cultural and artistic activities and closure of facilities. The sector stopped, without answers, without support, without knowing how it would survive, crying for help! The pandemic thus exposed in the worst way, in a cruel way, the enormous fragility of the cultural sector, dragging thousands of lives to limbo. For us, PSD, it has always been obvious the way forward. The Ministry of Culture had to intervene and had to do quickly, with specific measures to support culture, but instead came the Minister of Culture to defend the cross-section of measures, reaffirming sometimes and sometimes without account. The culture continued orphan, orphan of whom it should be the first to come to defend it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u76	But summer is coming and with it the pressure of the pandemic has decreased. The interrupted life was resumed, but the cultural sector continued to stop. And once again, the Ministry of Culture has shown that it does not meet the challenges that the pandemic carried, showing itself unable to be creative, innovative and not engaging in the search for solutions. Some said that for this government the sector was forgotten. I'll say, it's never been remembered! It was not remembered when, although other activities had resumed, it continued to stop! But worse: it has been ignored! Shopping carts were ignored that collected food goods at the doors of the theatres, the civic intervention platforms, demonstrations and requests for meetings. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not everything has been forgotten: this Government has not forgotten the undue collection of contributions to social security! And, worse: Mrs. Minister, in a total demonstration of disrespect for the sector, she is jokingly inviting social communication for a drink! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government and the Ministry of Culture were the cigarette of this narrative, which did not intend to prepare for the coming winter. Unable to anticipate the imperative need to create support measures for the sector when the pressure of the pandemic was lower, making it possible to strengthen it, helping it to be better prepared to cope with more difficult times, nothing has been done! They continued in a deep state of denial, crystallized and lofty, as always, forgetting that their function is to serve, forgetting that their duty is to everyone, but, above all, to the weakest. But the PSD never complied, nor did it come down. We therefore presented a draft resolution proposing the allocation to the national cultural and creative sector of a value of not less than 2 % of the European funds of the Recovery and Resilience Programme. This highly ambitious PSD proposal is clearly aligned with the strategy defined by the European Parliament and the European Commission, which the Portuguese Government is anxious to ignore, is a real bazauca for culture, leaving no one behind. But in December, as well as in the fable, winter came and with it the new state of emergency and again the despair of those who no longer live, but survive! The government, at a press conference with a pump and circumstances, rushed to announce measures to support culture, appearing until it was announcing the end of the pandemic rather than a new confinement. And once again, the Ministry of Culture, currently run by the pressure of the pandemic, was unable to create structural solutions. By revealing a total and absolute ignorance of what is happening around him, he presented a package of far-reaching measures, secretly running behind the damage, attempting to correct the underfinancing error of the last competition to support the arts and cinema. Coming here is time to say: it is little, Mrs. Minister! It's very little what's been done by the sector! More and more must be done, and not just when Europe hits. For the PSD, the supports should have come before, long before, preventing the sector from becoming delapied. Support must be immediate and robust and there must be a strategy for the cultural sector, in addition to the Community funds, which I know is difficult for socialist governments. In the face of the government's inability, in particular the Minister of the Guards, this House cannot remain silent. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, I am taking my cup full of solidarity with all those who insist and persist, not conforming and never giving up in defending culture and social communication in this country on the shore of the sea planted. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u77	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are facing one of the biggest failures of the government in the field of culture. In November, we had impressive data: 50 % of the cinemas could close. It was a very dangerous warning that the government decided to ignore. Some, for ideological blindness, decided to ignore; the government, for lack of means, decided to ignore. We are as far behind as possible in European terms in support of culture, and this is demonstrated by the data that show us that support for audiovisual, support for bullfighting, support for literature and support for culture and creativity are still lacking in Portugal. But it is ironic that the same minister who failed to support Portuguese culture arrives at the Presidency of the European Union and presents as a major initiative the resumption of culture. They have failed in Portugal and now they want to succeed in supporting the cultural sector in the European Union! How can European citizens rely on a Minister of Culture who says that he will resume European culture when he has failed in all the rates of approval, support and cultural development in Portugal? How can there be any level of credibility when...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u79	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. How can there be some level of credibility when even within doors we can support a sector as fundamental as our Portuguese culture and critical spirit?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discourses of appreciation of culture, the arts, the show do not combine with the precariousness to which the workers of the culture have always been voted. Love of art has always motivated all those who dedicate themselves to creative activities and without which we cannot live. In the first confinement, the appeals were constant, with suggestions that we dedicated ourselves to watching films, we saw plays, we attended dances, circus shows, which are even more relevant at the time of Christmas, and we are even allowed to visit the museums online free of charge. Everything in the name of entertainment, enrichment and cultural valorization and even to keep us mentally healthy. However, the cultural support that has been claimed for years remains scarce and only the passion for art keeps many cultural professionals working, continuing the creative process, often trying only to survive. With the pandemic, culture was the most damaged areas. Some cultural spaces have been closed for over a year, many projects have been under way, many concerts have not happened and thousands of workers have been delivered to themselves. Despite all the calls, proposals, the reality of the misery in which some of these workers live, the support is delayed and, more often than it might be expected, they are denied, leaving so many without access to any social support. The Greens have often stated that it is not possible to continue to address the problems that the pandemic has brought us and that it is urgent to support all those who need help, support to live and not just to survive. In the 21st century it is not possible to accept the image of the hat artist extended waiting for two coins to eat. We have already said it and repeated it again: culture is not a luxury good, it is not a superfluous product of consumption; culture is a good, increasingly essential for those who create it, but also for those who enjoy it. It is hoped that such defination planning will take care of the area of culture and allow us to regain access to it with all the safety rules that have already been shown to be possible to achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Rosário Gambôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party, of course, recognises the enormous difficulties of the workers of culture and expresses deep concern about their problems. These workers live a sudden drop in income, this worsening income on a dominant condition of precariousness. We know that. We also express our solidarity with all the workers and Portuguese who are experiencing serious difficulties arising from the pandemic situation. We also express our sensitivity to the motivation that led the parliamentary groups of the CFP, the Left Block and the PAN and Mrs Cristina Rodrigues to bring some legislative proposals to Parliament today. However, there must be weighting and realism when, months after the State budget, new proposals for extraordinary support are submitted without assessing and taking into account the budgetary impacts arising there, or even without providing for a ceiling for the expenditure that these proposals entail. Some of the measures proposed in these legislative initiatives not only go against the norm-work as a basis for unconstitutionality when they define in their own diploma that it prevails over all and any other rules, including the State budget. There is disproportionateity in some of the proposed measures, there is overlap with measures contained in the State Budget for 2021, e.g. the Status of Cultural Workers or their mapping, or other recently announced measures. There are measures in the draft laws under consideration that, by extending the time and values of the legislation in force, do not even take into account the risks that may arise there, these risks that may distort the intentions of the tenderers. I am referring to some cases of the extension of Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March. But we also find — and this is an important point that we like to say — reasonable in some of the measures that integrate the proposals and we find positive suggestions that can and should form the basis for a constructive dialogue. It was on the basis of this dialogue that it was possible, with the contributions of the NAP, of the non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues, of the ENP, and especially of the CFP, to improve many of the proposals of the State Budget for 2021, in a democratic position where, contrary, the Left Block failed to make the call, did not present a single proposal for culture in the State Budget, resigning itself from the democratic participation and the responsibilities which it so much claims to defend in the face of the cultural sector, presenting proposals after the State Budget. In democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is always time and space for criticism, as there is time and space for dialogue, for cooperation and convergence work. However, it is important to show that the weighting that is due to everyone in the mobilization of public resources to address the pandemic situation that the whole society goes through requires common sense, demands fairness and demands objectivity in relation to the support that has been progressively implemented since March, in the Supplementary Budget, in the State Budget for 2021 and now, after Budget, within the framework of companies, support for individual workers, support that has been created, announced and now put into action through Portaria No 37 -A / 2021, promulgated on 15 February. They are measures specifically addressed to the sector, measures which are largely lost, and, Mrs Deputy, the PSD will be the last to be able to talk about values and paths. The EUR 42 million for the Guarantee Culture Programme is few; these, another large set of millions that also appear in this portfolio, through extraordinary programmes, are few. There will always be few, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, because in order to make the situation where culture is, there will never be enough money. This is why they are said to be support mechanisms, which seek to monitor and mitigate, mechanisms that cannot be fixed and which must be responsible as a result of the evolution of the pandemic, and it is also said that this planned budgeting relates to a first phase, which should be properly monitored throughout the evolution of the pandemic. They are also measures that have a cross-sectional context to others that have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u85	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u86	Mr. President, I'm done. Above all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the message the Socialist Party wants to leave is that it is available to work and, as long as it is objective and responsible, we can together take a path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u88	Mr President, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, on this matter, there are still many who, in culture, starve and who experience many difficulties. The problem here is therefore all those who are out of the support provided and the lack of speed of implementation of these support in the field. With regard to this, the question is as follows: will the Government persist in excluding workers from these support, in particular how it happens with the other service providers, or will the Socialist Party follow the proposal of the CFP, which is presented today, so that this does not happen? This is a determining issue. The other determining issue, Mrs Deputies, is the following: will the Government continue to provide for a single benefit of an IAS or, on the contrary, will the Socialist Party have the opportunity to vote favourably on the proposal from the CFP to be allocated 1, 5 IAS, not only as a single form of benefit but also as long as these constraints remain? Because people don't stop starving if things don't open up and if culture doesn't work again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u89	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u90	Finally, Mr President, saying that much further action must be taken with support for cultural workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u91	To close the debate, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that our commitment to the workers of culture is unequivocal. In the discussion of the Budget, we reaffirmed the insufficiency of the Budget to meet the needs that were already placed and the needs that would arise. We knew that the crisis that existed, and that would deepen with the increase of cases resulting from the pandemic situation that we are living, would have a profound impact on the culture and life of workers and workers in the sector. At the time, we called attention to the need for far more robust measures, but the PS did not respond to our request and did not approve our intentions. So today we present this bill, which responds to the devastating effects that the pandemic has had on the cultural sector and the devastating effects it is having on people's lives. at this time, we find that there is a refusal to recognize the need to change complicated rules, to remove obstacles that prevent access to support by those who truly need it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u94	These rules were created through the deep ignorance of the cultural fabric, a lack of knowledge about what economic activities are part of this same cultural fabric, and the lack of will to deepen this knowledge. The Ministry of Culture has been out of line with the reality of the sector that it represents and it is necessary to match its practice and the proposals presented with the actual needs of people who have been almost a year without wages, many of whom no longer have the capacity to cope with their expenses and to obtain the food they need, and therefore depend on solidarity cabazes. That's what they told us. It is therefore important that the recognition of the seriousness of the situation be unequivocally translated in a pragmatic way, through concrete measures that reach all people, that allow them to live and that allow them to defend culture in the current tragic situation, so that in the future we can continue to have culture. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u95	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of point 3 of the agenda, which consisted of the joint discussion of Bill 647 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 663 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 669 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 670 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) and the Resolution Project No 647 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN). We moved on to point 4, with the appreciation of Decrees-Leisn.6 - E / 2021 of 15 January, which establishes support mechanisms in the context of the state of emergency[ Parliamentary Assessments Nos. 40 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 42 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ], 8 - B / 2021, of 22 January, establishing a set of support measures within the framework of the suspension of non-permanent educational activities[ Parliamentary assessments Nos 41 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 39 / XIV / 2. a ( BE)] and 10 -A / 2021, of 2 February, which establishes exceptional mechanisms for the management of health professionals to perform care activities, within the scope of the COVID-19 disease pandemic [ Parliamentary assessment No 43 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start the debate, I should like to inform you that a number of amendments have been tabled in the Bureau. For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The difficulties experienced in the lives of thousands of families, aggravated in recent weeks, due to the decree of a new confinement, the closure of schools and child support equipment and the imposition of telework, confirm the enormous importance of this debate and the scheduling made on the initiative of the CFP. At the moment we live, it is essential that measures to support workers and families, including measures to enable parents to effectively accompany their children, even parents who are in telework. Today, those who operate the family support mechanism lose one third of their salary and those who are in telework cannot access extraordinary support to the family. Teleworking workers are denied the follow-up to their children and the right to the articulation of professional, family and personal life. It is denied to children, children of workers in telework, the right to be accompanied by their parents, so it is the right of the children we are also talking about. Telework continues to be work, monitoring the child continues to be follow-up to the child. They are different dimensions, they have to be separated, they are not conciliable — on the contrary! — and when they cross, as has happened, they make the lives of families an unsustainable reality. We recall the opinion of the ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment) which states that "the possibility of any worker performing his/her functions under telework may never be affected by the indispensable assistance and care that children need, under the penalty of endangering the physical and psychological integrity of children, which is a crime, the fact that the employer must be aware of." To respond to these difficulties and problems, which have no response to the diplomas we call upon, the CFP proposes that support for families with dependent children be paid 100 % and not two thirds of the salary, so that no one has to choose between accompanying their children and losing wages or, in order to maintain the whole salary, not being able to accompany their children. We also propose that those in telework may opt for the family care scheme when they have children in charge, ensuring this right to the child, and even if this support is extended to 16 years old, because, since there may be more autonomy in some ages, especially at a time when the usual routines and dynamics of children and young people are altered, it is not desirable that these, even older ones, spend hours followed by themselves because their parents are working. These proposals, in order to respond to this concrete reality, the CFP adds others, in particular within the framework of social protection, so that unemployed workers, who were forgotten in the 2020 Supplementary Budget and who saw unemployment benefits end, can have ensured their social protection with measures decided and approved in the State Budget of 2021. We remember, in this regard, that if the proposal for extension of social benefits that the CFP then presented none of these workers would have been confronted, one day it would have been, with the distress of social disprotection. We also propose that scientific research workers have their extended contracts and their guaranteed rights, but knowing of the difficulties experienced by workers in essential services in access to host schools, particularly when the family member has only one employee of essential services, we also propose that this access can be guaranteed to all these workers, even when his or her spouse is in a telework situation. There are also questions about the functioning of schools and the process of teaching and learning that do not find an answer in the diplomas we consider, in particular in Decree-Law No 8 - B / 2021, such as support during educational interruptions, equipment and computer equipment, expenditure associated with non-presenceal activities, resources for inclusion and workers needed to ensure the necessary answers. Without prejudice to the need to ensure the return to present education as soon as possible, as the CFP has defended, it is essential to ensure responses that minimize the impact of closing schools on the educational process and on the learning of children and young people. We therefore propose the free access and distribution of the necessary technological and computer equipment, including free access to the Internet, to all students and school workers; the extension of reception and school support to children and young people with measures to support learning and inclusion, or even in situations where schools consider the application of the non-presenceal or mixed regime ineffective; the extension of food support to all students receiving level C and others who are not beneficiaries, need this support, as well as the non-compulsory return of school textbooks. Also in the field of health, we propose that the exceptional mechanisms created to combat the pandemic be extended to ensure the recovery of the care activity that has been suspended and we propose that the application of the schedule be extended to the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, the superior health technicians and the technical assistants.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u97	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u98	I will finish, Mr. President. Economic and social reality demonstrates, as the CFP has said and as the proposals we present reflect, that these exceptional times require, without delay, exceptional and emergency measures. By not wasting any opportunity to intervene and improve the living conditions of Portuguese workers, families and people, the CFP presents the solutions needed to respond to the problems we have identified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u99	You have the floor for a speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was necessary to close schools to control the pandemic. The children needed to have an adult at home without that being a factor of poverty for the family. Creating a performance seemed to be the simplest solution and the trick is creating a performance with access rules and income cuts to exclude people who need it. Exceptional support to the family cuts one third of workers' wages on behalf of others, leaves thousands of self-employed outside and obliges independent workers to stop working for €438 per month to stay at home with their children, also excluding parents in telework. All this was unsustainable. The government has waited for a parliamentary assessment to withdraw workers' access to telework and to pay 100 % to single-parent families, but thousands of independent workers remain outside and continue to cut a third of the wage to thousands of workers on behalf of others, now saying that only 100 % is paid to families with shared tasks between men and women. We do not accept the alibi of gender equality for the Minister of Finance to save on social support and cut wages. The government invents difficulties and then says that money has been lost, as if no one needed it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u102	The Left Block here proposes the access of informal caregivers to this support, the extension of it to self-employed workers, the national minimum wage as a minimum value, 2019 as the reference year of income of self-employed workers and guarantee 100 % of the salary to which this support is granted. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u103	You have the floor by the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government's top priority was to reactivate, with maximum speed, within the current budgetary framework, the extraordinary instruments of the first wave of the pandemic, so as not to leave the affected companies without support and also not to leave the people and families unprotected. This was true for support to businesses, independent workers, members of statutory bodies, for example, with the immediate reactivation of simplified layoff. And it was also true for the exceptional support to the family, with the suspension of educational activities. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this objective has been achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u106	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, although we should necessarily take account of the margins of the current budget framework, even though the top priority should immediately be to activate existing measures in order not to create hedges, we did not stop paying attention to the signs, requests for parliamentary assessment, the positions of the parties, the concerns of the social partners and, in general, paying attention to the difficulties of many families. That is why, being this exceptional measure and an initiative and competence of the Government, and being concerned about matters that have implications for the current budget year, after consultations yesterday, the partners in the social consultation, the Government today, in the Council of Ministers, approved a set of amendments relevant to the exceptional support to the family. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The workers in the telework scheme may opt for exceptional support for the family when the family member integrates dependent or dependent child who is attending social equipment to support the first child or pre-school establishment or until the end of 1. the basic education cycle, when the worker belongs to a single-parent family aggregate or when the dependent family aggregate is dependent on disability or with proven disability equal to 60 %, regardless of age. The payment will be guaranteed at 100 % in single-parent families and when the assistance is shared by both parents, yes, to promote equality between men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, we appreciate the concerns expressed by the parties and believe that this set of measures responds to several of the concerns that have been brought to this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u107	I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A liberal minute to talk about the confusion of family support in time of pandemic. The first confusion has to do with the case of separated parents. It is virtually unanimous that the current rules of exceptional support for the family—i.e. the support that is given to those who have to accompany their children through the closure of schools— already allow this support to be divided between their parents, if they are separated and with alternate residence arrangements. However, information on the social security site is scarce, which has caused many problems, especially in the case of couples with parental conflicts. The second confusion relates to situations of need for telework compatibility with the monitoring of the study of children. Only those who have never had to accompany the study at home of one or more children can doubt that this is a full - time task. This is even more true when children have to share equipment because the government has failed, sadly, its promise to distribute the necessary computers. In the face of these two confusions, which the Government itself has already acknowledged, because it has come once again in a hurry, on the eve of parliamentary discussion, to try to correct its own problems, the Liberal Initiative presents its proposal which clarifys the rights to support by separate parents and gives freedom to those who are accompanying children in the studies to choose between being on telework or receiving family support. They are solutions to situations that are expected to be transitional because we are waiting for the government to present its plan of return to present education. For the recent sample, we'd better wait for you to sit down. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u109	I now give the floor to Mr Inês de Sousa Real of the NAP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Yesterday we saw a spinoff of a film that we had already seen at the time of the first confinement, about the protection of partners-managers. After denying the 100 % salary to parents and mothers who have to take care of their children and having denied the support provided to these parents and mothers who also have to work in telework, the government has somehow corrected these injustices. And you did it not because you recognized the urgency of this measure but because you feared what has been called, or seen, as a negative majority for the government and for the PS, but positive for the country and for the families. Moreover, this delay in the government has already led many parents and mothers to have to listen to muscular recommendations from their employers to better coordinate their work with family life, to put false casualties to take care of their children or to receive threats from the employer to resume their work, as well as, as well as alerting non-governmental organizations, it also contributes to gender inequalities, and all this in the wake of the necessary strengthening of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) to accompany a time as complex as what we live and to which these people are subject. Cases like these show how important quick action is in responding to the crises we are experiencing. Once and for all, it is necessary to understand that people's lives cannot be in the taste of political tactics. But the debate we have here today is still useful because the Government's proposal, although it is making progress, is insufficient and needs to be improved by this Parliament. For this reason, the NAP today brings a set of initiatives that aim to propose the following: firstly, that these support have a value of 100 % of the salary, because it does not make sense that assistance to a child, in this exceptional context, is synonymous with loss of income, even more, mostly, loss of income on women's faces. Secondly, we want this support to cover all workers, even if they may be in telework, because it is more known that since March, telework is work, it is not leisure, and the requirements to monitor and care for a child under 12 years of age do not allow due attention to the challenges added by telework. Thirdly, we want these support to cover cases of single-parent families, because it makes no sense that a single father or mother cannot miss work to take care of their children; Fourthly, we want these support to cover the parents of children up to 12 years old, not only because in the legislation on COVID-19, which we are approving since March, has always been this age that has been considered and children have even less autonomy in these ages, with the need for greater follow-up, but also because it is not understood that this diploma allows the justification of shortcomings for these ages but does not recognize parents' direct, financial support, provided for. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, I invited them to try to work today, right here, on what our political life is, and we have the children who are part of our family aggregates to draw our attention. If Mr. Members of the government were here and thus trying to complete your tasks, it would not certainly be an easy task. But that is what parents and mothers have to do right now and there is no "law-work" that can invoke to block this reality. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we can try to address what is unfair to our country's parents and mothers by voting on the initiatives we have brought here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u111	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: I note that you have ignored informal caregivers in support of the family. With the closed day centres, with the closed occupational activities centres, will the caregivers continue to remain in the shadow of the support and in an exclusion zone for this support to the family? They and they, Mr Secretary of State, take care of dependent people, saw the social equipment shut down and -they were promised EUR 30 million by the government in 2020, which they have never arrived - and it was not for lack of necessity, Mr Secretary of State. But it is not just informal caregivers who find themselves in the suffering of lack of support. Today, there are thousands of cultural workers who are realizing that they will not receive the announced support because they do not have the correct EAC and because they demand an EAC last year. There are independent workers who are seeing their support calculated on the basis of the incomes of 2020, which is a year in which many no longer had incomes, and there are also the unemployed and the unemployed who have not had the extension of the social unemployment allowance, which have now been referred to for extraordinary support, it is true that after the pressure they have made — a support that has not yet been paid — and for whom every day that passes is a day of despair. We therefore insist on these proposals that, in 2021, exceptionally, all unemployment benefits should be extended. Moreover, in 2020, access to social unemployment benefit was facilitated by a reduction to half of the guarantee period, but the Government refused to extend this measure to 2021 in the budget debate. Here is an opportunity to correct this wrong refusal that leads to social disprotection. There are also thousands of people who will be excluded from the rules of extraordinary support, because of the application of the condition of resources — we have warned about this already debate of the State budget — but now that we have the pandemic on our feet, we have an opportunity to correct and allow those who, for example, had to go home to their parents are not excluded from the support they need. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u113	Mr Moisés Ferreira also signed up to intervene, but there is a rule of the Rules of Procedure which does not allow two Members of the same parliamentary group to speak on the same point as our agenda. I shall therefore give the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP, and then give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira. Mrs Mariana Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens greets the authors of this agenda. The measures taken in the face of the evolution of the pandemic have once again caused great economic and social regressions. Despite some measures to mitigate the effects of the closure and suspension of the activities of many companies, the response was far from the needs. Support for self-employed persons, individual entrepreneurs, managers and members of managing statutory bodies is therefore, from time to time, the minimum value of support, which should correspond to an IAS, as the Greens proposed and approved here, was, however, vetoed by the President of the Republic. The restoration sector was one of the most affected. Despite some measures, such as the APOIAR Programme, the truth is that many companies in the branch have been excluded, since then many of those who started the activity from 2019, by statistical criteria, as well as due to artificial billing, since the operation in take-away and in delivery regime completely changes the way they produce, as invoices and the cost structure. For example, commissions and fees charged by delivery platforms are invoiced by restaurants, contributing to artificially expanding their turnover. The proposed amendments to Decree-Law No 6 - E / 2021, which The Greens today bring to debate, seek to respond to the difficulties of companies in this sector and meet the needs of thousands of independent workers and partners-managers. On the other hand, the suspension of educational activities led thousands of parents to stay at home providing assistance to their children. The support granted covers only children under 12 years of age or with disabilities or chronic illness. In addition, support represents only two thirds of the salary. For the Greens, not only should this support be extended to children up to 15 years old, as should be 100 % of the salary. On the other hand, support does not include those in telework. For example, teaching synchronized lessons or meeting customers on the phone is not compatible with caring for children at home. The ENP proposals amending Decree-Law No. 8 - B / 2021 respond to the needs of parents with children up to 15 years of age, as well as allowing working parents to provide adequate support to their children. Finally, Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2021 of 2 February came to define additional measures, of an extraordinary and transitional nature, for the SNS, in order to value the efforts of direct health care providers to patients with CVID-19, but leaves out many others who have a relevant role in combating the pandemic, such as operational assistants, clinical secretaries, diagnostic technicians and therapy. These workers must also see the remuneration extended by 50 % of the additional work. It is also planned to hire doctors on an uncertain basis, when the measure which lasted until 31 December 2020 allowed the hiring of medical specialists without term. Other outside professionals, such as clinical secretaries and operational assistants, whose role, in particular in primary health care units, are undeniable. The lack of these professionals has led to several health units, already in the course of 2021, having to close.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : over almost a year of pandemic and necessary response to the same pandemic, too much has failed, not only in support of workers, but also in the answer to businesses and the economy itself. That is: support that always comes too late, support that is beyond reality, particularly in micro and small businesses, ads behind advertisements, with little or no effective regulation, as well as a lack of minimum predictability for those who have their business that might look forward to it a little bit in the future. From this point of view, there are two discriminations which remain in the regulations and support measures but which must be eliminated as soon as possible and which have to do with the fact that the support programmes continue to leave behind part of the partners—in particular those without organised accounting, because the government has not yet implemented the measure—and individual employers with dependent workers, who are also excluded, in particular, from the eligibility of programmes such as APOIAR + SIMPLES. It is therefore necessary to end these discriminations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u117	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The life of Portuguese families has changed substantially for almost a year. It has obviously changed because we live with a pandemic and we have never experienced an identical reality, but it has also changed because the circumstances in which each member of these families performs work and the circumstances in which he provides his support to the family have also changed radically. Thus, if at first what was a difficulty for the life of any family, which was the reconciliation between labor responsibilities and support for the family, it seemed and created until the illusion that, with the pandemic and the first confinement, it had been facilitated, then quickly realized that the effect was exactly the opposite. The sudden fact that families suddenly met together at home — children because they could not go to school and parents because they could not go to work — seemed to make everyone closer, everyone could help and family life better. Actually, it wasn't like that. When responsibilities are overlapped, of course problems also appear. It was clear from the outset that telework and support for the family are not just the same thing as they are not conciliable in the same person. It is impossible to think that anyone in telework can, at the same time, support the family. It is impossible to think that, who is on a job call, can at the same time help his son or daughter in a job, at that time when he is obviously not — and many of the children are not — with enough autonomy to be able to answer it that the teacher or teacher asks them to. And this naturally worsens in single-parent families, in families with several children in charge, in families that have younger or older people at home than those who are covered by family support—and rarely talk about it. In many of these families, people, besides being in telework and having children of school age considered for support to the family, have younger children, often newborns, to whom they also have to support. Then there are also older children who, although they already have some autonomy, if they are at home with their brothers, are not the same as they are at home alone. For this reason, the CDS, ever since last year and already this year, has raised this issue, considering all possible changes to the law so that these two matters could be self-sustained. It is unfortunate that once again the Government does not respond to the need of Portuguese families. It is unfortunate that once again the Government does not respond to the need of Portuguese children. It is unfortunate that once again the Government is more concerned with parliamentary majority than with the lives of people in particular. It was not the life of thousands of people in these families who motivated the government to change the current regime. What led the Government to change the current regime was the possibility of forming a majority here that would bring justice to Portuguese families. It is worth it this way, but it is sad that a government, which should have another social sensibility, did not have the ability to solve this problem on its own and would go through the drag of a parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u119	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u120	But we are still very proud to be part of this parliamentary majority, which has forced the government to bring justice to Portuguese families.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u121	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, I begin by saying to the Government the following: I welcome the debate at last! A very important debate for Portuguese families, but the Government has consistently refused to do so. I will recall that at the end of January, the government decided to suspend the educational activities, following the increase in outbreaks of COVID-19 and to avoid transmission of the virus and contagios. after that, the Government decided to resume its regime in March 2020, i.e. in order for parents to be able to follow their children, the Government resumed its family support regime. But the government has made a mistake and has been wrong again with these families, because they were more than identified the difficulties that families had felt in March, in particular as regards compatibility of what is the performance of their functions under telework, which has become compulsory, and the monitoring of their children. What happened was that the government had no sensitivity to, despite the constant appeals, to realize that telework is work and that the fact that families are in telework can compromise their monitoring of children. Thus, it harms both aspects: it does indeed harm work on productivity issues, but, essentially, it questions the follow-up to children. We are talking about fundamental rights, the right to follow up on children. Despite the Government's insistence on nothing to change, the PSD, even last week, had the opportunity to, at the hearing of the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, raise precisely this issue and ask the Minister whether the Government was going to make any amendments, until Parliament's assessments were under way. And what was said? Mr Secretary of State, it was said, very clearly by the Minister that there would be no changes, that the measures that were in force were sufficient. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u123	So last Wednesday the government refused to change this regime. That is why the PSD said: "we cannot continue to allow the government to close the eyes of families. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u125	from there we presented our proposals, which go precisely in order to give these families an approach, to allow greater reconciliation between what is telework and what is the need for follow-up to children. We propose that we discriminate positively against certain families, including those who feel the most difficult, such as single-parent families, numerous families, with three or more children, and families with disabilities. in these matters, what the PSD always wanted was that there was a non-compulsory role in telework and to allow parents to manage and choose support for the family. That is the only way that workers' rights and children's rights were properly guarded. But only after that — and here again at the beginning of my speech — has the government agreed on this problem. And I am glad you agreed, Mr Secretary of State, but I remember here, late, late! You know why, Mr. Secretary of State? Because it is almost a month that schools have closed and you have let families go through serious difficulties this month to support their children and to carry on their activities. In any case, we welcome the government's coming to the debate and we will be here to see the proposals that the Government has announced, but also with the due caution of the custom, because we are already used to letting the government announce something and, when it passes on to the role, when it achieves it, it is no longer exactly the same. So here we will be to appreciate and make known our position on what the Secretary of State has brought us today on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u126	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: One of the priorities of the Socialist Party and this Government has always been to combat precariousness, job instability and unemployment, i.e. to promote the creation of more and better employment, to eliminate poverty at work, to boost the rise in minimum wage and to curb wage inequalities. By the beginning of 2020 the Portuguese economy had grown five consecutive years above the euro area average and we had one of the lowest unemployment rates in recent decades. In a few weeks, everything changed, our lives took a 180o turn and the government had to have the ability to respond to the pandemic crisis, in order to mitigate the consequences of this crisis, ensuring the maintenance of employment, supporting families and protecting businesses. The responses that were adopted to control the disease had a direct and negative impact on the dynamics of families. The measures implemented in the first wave of the pandemic were being improved, extended and supplemented by others in order to stagnate the effects produced by the second and third wave. In 2020, the extraordinary support created by this Government covered about 2, 5 million people, more than 150 000 companies and around 2.3 million euros were made available in non-refundable support. Extraordinary measures were set up to respond at the time we went through: about 900 000 workers were covered by the Layoff; some 60 000 management partners were supported; more than 170 000 independent workers; 550 000 workers were covered by the measures to encourage the normalization of the activity and to support the recovery; about 800 000 people benefited from the additional benefits of the family allowance; the protection of incomes of those who are in prophylactic isolation or who are down by diseaseCOVID-19 with 100 % payment was made available to more than 300 000 people; the stabilization supplement was paid to 350 000 workers and the family support measure reached around 200 000 people. Having arrived at 2021, this Parliament continues, the Government continues and continues the country in its contingencies to comply with and enforce some of the most restrictive measures of our rights and freedoms, without parallel in the contemporary history of which there is memory. We have adopted here a Budget which generally aims at three main objectives: muscle the National Health Service; continue to protect people, employment and income; and, at the same time, start economic recovery. To that end, the social security budget had an increase of EUR 2000 million in comparison with the previous budget and, if we compare it with the 2015 budget, last of the PSD / CDS government, the allocation of social benefits, is true, Mrs Deputy! — increased by 25 %, plus EUR 5.2 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: By making use of a constitutional provision, Parliamentary assessment of certain diplomas approved by the Government was requested, in particular of Decree-Law No 8 - B / 2021 of 22 January. In order to support the accelerated growth of the pandemic, the government chose to suspend the educational and non-presentative activities. In order to legally frame the follow-up of children by their families, this diploma provides for situations where shortcomings at work are justified. Consequently, the Government also decided to recover the measures to support the family and the follow-up of children created by Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, allowing access to exceptional support to the family for follow-up and assistance to minor children outside periods of educational interruption. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to govern, manage and lead is to know how to act best, regardless of the time. It is to know how to listen, how to think, how to seek consensus, how to recognize that we can always improve. It is to know to meet what civil society but also other political parties expect from us. It is always our choice to comply with the categorical imperative of defending social justice. The Government has therefore approved today, in line with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and also with some claims presented here today, to extend exceptional support to the family, and may opt for this support, instead of telework, in the case of : families with minor children who attend daycare, kindergartens or the 1st cycle of basic education; families with dependents with a disability equal to or greater than 60%; and single-parent families. In the case of the latter, those who receive the increase in the family allowance and those who share the support for children between both parents receive all of the basic remuneration, assuming the State this difference so as not to entail more costs to the employer entity. Therefore, we are also open to examining with interest the possibilities of extending access to host schools and we are aware that we need to study the best ways of reconciling the interests of essential service workers and their children with the interest of the essential services themselves for the country. Once again, we put people at the heart of our concerns, never trying to lose focus on protecting families, businesses, employment and incomes, always ensuring a more just, inclusive and less unequal society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u128	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we went from the government last week to say that all the support they had would be for the government that agreed to give in to what you know would be a negative majority in this Parliament. But we also passed from the government who knew that because they had not distributed computers at the right time, parents and children would be the main harm in Portugal. And we no longer speak of informal caregivers: only 222 receive assistance at this time in Portugal. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 222! Shame! in a country where so many take care of others, only 222 are able to support. We have spoken of supporting self-employed people and, to date, those who do not have organized accounting, without receiving any support. And also those who do not have employees continue to receive no support. There are thousands throughout the whole country looking to the socialist government without any prospect of the future. By now, Mr Secretary of State, it was agreed to say here whether the programs APOIAR.PT and APOY RESTAURATION, which had been the Government's great ex-libris, are closed or not, as most associations of the sector said. It is good to say whether or not the money is over, and whether or not we are going to continue to support the sectors that suffer the most in Portugal. Mr. Member of the Socialist Party Rita Borges Madeira said...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u130	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u131	I will finish, Mr. President. The honourable Member said: "We are very nice, we have increased 25% of the support that the right has given in its last budget." Mrs. Member, that was six years ago, my God! It was six years ago! [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] If you spend another four years in the government, you will continue to look at 10 years ago and say: "We are good, because, despite being bad, others have made worse! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] It's not like that, Mrs. Deputies! You need to look at the problems of Portuguese and solve them now and today!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u132	The Left Block still has four seconds that Mr. Moses Ferreira does not want to take home, so I immediately give him the floor, and I do not need to tell him it is short. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, telegraphically: on 2 February, the Government published a decree amending the remuneration for extra work, shifts and extended hours of health professionals. It is a decree that comes with almost a year's delay, but even with all this delay, it is presented incompletely, excluding more than it includes. I leave some examples: operational assistants are not covered by additional work increases; TSDT (higher diagnosis and therapy technician) and superior health technicians are not covered by increased work; shift pay excludes TSDT and operational assistants. Parliamentary assessments and proposals presented by the Bloc are aimed at making these changes to increase remuneration for all health professionals, because they are all in this fight against COVID. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u134	You now have the floor, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Antonio Lacerda Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the dimensions of this government's sensitivity to pandemic has been exactly the continuing strengthening of human resources. I recall that during 2020 there were more than 8200 health professionals. The Ministry of Health is grateful to health professionals, who are, in fact, the jewel of the crown of the National Health Service. Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2021 results from the need to establish exceptional mechanisms for the management of health professionals — doctors, nurses, TSDT, to (operational assistants), AT (technical assistants)...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u136	What's that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u137	in this context, the concern of the government was, on the one hand, to create mechanisms to increase the hours of care, particularly with the hiring of retired professionals, with regard to doctors and nurses, the hiring of non-specialists doctors, as well as the adoption of extended time schemes applicable to nurses and operational assistants. At the same time, other mechanisms were provided, in particular with regard to the remuneration scheme applicable to additional work intended to compensate these health professionals. With regard to proposals under consideration and additional remuneration for work, the basis for this proposal is based on Base 28 of the Health Bases Act. Thus, the additional work carried out by both the operational assistants and the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians in the context of combating the pandemic is also paid with an increase of 50 % on the corresponding remuneration which would be the same additional period of work, which is why we feel no change is necessary. With regard to the application of the additional schedule, with pay supplement, nurses and operational assistants and the transition from 35 hours to 42 hours, with an increase of 37 %, for this purpose, were, in fact, considered as nurses and operational assistants corresponding to groups of staff whose normal working time is ensured, in their entirety, in nurses dedicated to VOCID, in intensive care units and in other units where VOCID-19 patients are treated and, therefore, where the deficiencies are, in fact, more evident and more pressing. With regard to the assessment and proposal for the amendment of the Left Block on the conclusion of non-term employment contracts with health professionals, in our view and in our view, this solution, in some way, distorts the scope that guided the approval of Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2021, which, as a result of its object, establishes exceptional mechanisms for the management of health professionals to perform care activities in the context of the COVID 19 disease pandemic. On the other hand, the possibility of being the maximum management or administration bodies of establishments to hire specialist doctors prevents, so to speak, a cross-sectional analysis and carries some risks of cross-border inequity to the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u138	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u139	Therefore, contrary to what the Government has sought to ensure, this solution, to be adopted, contributes, as it were, to this worsening of territorial iniquity. Finally, I wanted to say very briefly about the proposal of the CFP and the application of the exceptional regime for the recovery of programmed activity, which, as we know, we are studying the recovery of the programmed activity and the plan - it, either within primary health care, or within the framework of the surgical activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u140	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of this debate, so I give the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, if there is something we have started to withdraw from this debate is that the schedule that the CFP made 15 days ago gives voice to the concerns we have expressed since March 2020. In fact, there are concerns that we have expressed and on which we have put forward proposals; if they had been approved, we would not have the situation of thousands of families who have to accompany their children and cannot operate family support mechanisms because they are in telework. These are proposals that the CFP presented and that at the time the PSD and PS, with their votes, did not allow them to be approved. But if thousands of families had been approved, they were not faced with an absolutely unsustainable situation and many children were not entitled to denied follow-up. But if there is something that is also withdrawn from here is the importance and urgency of this debate and the effective urgency of finding solutions for families, for children and also for workers, those solutions that have to go beyond what has been announced here. This is because of the support needs, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, they go beyond the age of nine. There are children with 10, 11, 12 and 13 years of age who need this support and who have the right to have parental follow-up as well. There are many families who, for different reasons, cannot divide the follow-up between the father and the mother and those cannot be denied the right of support to 100 %. The proposals that the PCP brings, both for the area of workers and social protection as well as for the areas of education and health, respond to the set of problems that we identified in our initial intervention. They respond to all families, not only families with three or more children, not only children until the age of nine, not only single-parent families. They do not create injustice for the proposals we put to the vote here. Therefore, what matters also to withdraw from this debate is what answer if you want to give to thousands of families who, at the moment, have to choose between actuating support to the family or guaranteeing their entire salary or, now, what answers is that you want to give to the professionals of education who are doing distance education and to students who have a set of difficulties in accessing various mechanisms, insofar as free access to a set of equipment must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u142	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u143	Even in conclusion, Mr President, I would say that free access to a set of equipment must be guaranteed so that these children will not be harmed in their teaching-learning process. It is therefore important, yes, to know what position it is that each of the parliamentary groups that has expressed great concerns will then take it when voting on these proposals which the CFP has brought. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u144	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I said in the initial speech, the Government had a first and fundamental concern: to ensure maximum speed; there were no hiatus or delays in protection; to reach people and businesses as quickly and effectively as possible. In our view, this fundamental objective was met in this second confinement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This does not mean that the Government is not attentive to the social reality and to the concerns that the different parties, with different guidelines, brought here and that we are not also aware of the complexity of the situation and, as several interventions have emphasized, of its absolutely exceptional character. This is something we have heard in the interventions, which we share, in terms of diagnosis, and which we have naturally tried to respond to these measures, which are combined with a very broad set of support. Because we do not deny merit to the concerns expressed here, we proceed accordingly and we start on the Government's side for the adoption of measures that would try to respond to a number of these concerns. Obviously, when we do so, it does not mean that we share all the issues that have been raised here, and above all I have to say that some of the criticisms that have been made are clearly unfair. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is because we cannot lose the notion of the scale of support which has been put to the service of people, families and businesses throughout 2020 and also in 2021 and which we have already assured that they are to continue. In 2020, only in the area of work and solidarity, more than 2 billion were the support paid, we reached more than 2 million and 600 thousand people, we reached more than 163 000 companies. I believe that this does not correspond, therefore, to the picture that some try here to paint the support that does not reach where they are needed and the scale that the country needs in terms of support. However, as I also said, we did not stop responding to concerns and today I believe in the Council of Ministers that a relevant set of measures allows people under telework to choose exceptional support for the family when there is a child of the family by the end of 1. the basic education cycle, where it is a single-parent family aggregate or where situations of disability and disability are concerned equal to or greater than 60 %, also going to 100 % of the replacement rate in the case of single-parent families and the sharing between men and women. We may not have answered all the questions, but we must realize that we have to make the support we have, today, sustainable for 2021, because the country still needs and will need these support and the government means "Present" throughout the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u146	We will move on to point 5 of the agenda, which consists of the assessment of the Resolution Project No 853 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a green health route. To present this initiative, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic suspended the normal functioning of the care activity, either by the office of the Minister, either out of fear or due to the congestion of the services, exacerbating pre-existing difficulties of access to the National Health Service. It has been rightly urgent to respond to COVID patients, especially during the peak of recent weeks, but it is increasingly critical to care for non-COVID patients. According to the SNS transparency portal, in 2020, and compared to 2019, there was an 18 % breakdown in surgeries, 11 % in specialist consultations, 38 % in presence consultations in primary health care and 37% in home consultations. It is true that there has been a duplication of telephone calls, but we well know that a telephone call is not telemedicine and tracking Trace COVID is not a consultation. There are many people who have stayed behind and, in recent months, have been many, and recurrent, warnings for this other silent pandemic. The Portuguese Association of Hospital Administrators ( APAH ), in the study « Access to health care in times of pandemic », shows that 57% of Portuguese consider that the pandemic has hampered access to health care and that 692 000 Portuguese have not conducted a medical consultation that they had marked. The Director of the National Programme for Oncological Diseases said: « One of the consequences was that Mrs. Minister, with the advance of the infection of COVID-19 to astronomical levels, had ordered all non-COVID surgical activity to be stopped in hospitals. Surgery is still the most healing weapon and the delay in diagnosis decreases the chances of healing in tumors. Do not keep on seeking. ” And many SNS doctors say what Dr. Roberto Roncon said: "I don't want to imagine the conclusions we're going to reach when we start analyzing non-COVID patients. When we allocate to a single pathology 60 % to 70 % of the capacity installed, for example in intensive care at national level, that says a lot, because the other diseases have not ceased to exist. Do not keep on seeking. ” We also recall the open letter addressed in October to the Minister of Health, signed by the current Bastonário and by five former Medical Officers: "It is time for the SNS to lead a global response, involving, according to the needs of the patients, the private and social sectors, which allow increased access to all health care, with an unequivocal response to all patients, to recover the waiting lists and potential lost patients. Do not keep on seeking. ” To ignore these repeated and insistent appeals, many of them coming from within the SNS itself, is to make a wrong decision, which reads, and potentially gravely, all Portuguese. It is in the sight of everyone that the SNS, by itself, will not be able to respond in good time to all that was to be done, to all those who were left to attend. Not to contract these health care with the private and social sectors will paradoxically be to asphyxiate the SNS and exhaust its professionals, but above all it will be to prevent the access of all citizens to the health care they need, recovering the immense and increasing delay. Therefore, the CDS-PP insists that whenever it exceeds the maximum response time guaranteed for the first specialty consultation, for complementary diagnostic and therapeutic examinations, users should be assured the freedom to access any other hospital to their choice, whether from the public, social or private sector, in the same way as what has happened for the surgeries since 2004, with the SIGIC ( Integrated System of Registry Management for Surgery ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal, we know this week, is at the top of the European countries with substantial excess mortality. It was never so clear that this is not the time of ideological walls, but of opening health routes for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u148	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will devote this 'liberal minute' to what should be obvious. It is obvious that the Liberal Initiative agrees with the proposal submitted by the CDS. When the maximum response time guaranteed for consultations and examinations is exceeded, users should be given the freedom to access such health care at any other hospital to their choice, whether in the public, social or private sector. But it is also obvious that the Liberal Initiative believes that we should go further. For us, this should be the basic model, always, and not only when the maximum response time is exceeded. People have the right to choose. People don't have to be stuck to health services away from their homes or with giant waiting lists. Many try to convince people that the model of the Liberal Initiative is unrealistic. It's only obvious that it's not. If it were, there were no systems that were quite different from Portuguese, much like what we stand for, in more than half of Europe. They will say: « Ah, but these countries spend more on health than we do». Some spend, yes, because they have better coverage and because they can. They created social and economic conditions to be more prosperous. We can and should do the same. There are already small examples of how this works in Portugal, with the COVID tests, for example. The person receives a code with the prescription of the SNS and can go to the testing site that is more convenient to him or her and does not matter whether it is public or private. It works, there are no rows, the state always pays the same. Does anyone have an obvious reason not to expand this model to consultations, exams and surgeries? The ideological blindness is not to see the obvious: not to see that people do not want to know whether the provider is public or not; not to see that the State no longer spends money on this model; and not to see that freedom of choice works.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u150	Only this story was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u151	Mrs. Members, I should have already announced — more late than ever — the following: Parliamentary assessments, which we discussed recently, paragraphs 39 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 40 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 41 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 42 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) are down to 10. the Commission and 43 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) drops to 13. the Commission. We continue with the intervention by Mr Moisés Ferreira by the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution brought by the CDS-PP is correct in the diagnosis, i.e. there must be a recovery of the activity that has been unprogrammed, but repeatedly fails in the answer that is necessary. Failure, finally, has an obvious, historical sending, because the CDS has always been against the National Health Service, and continues. In fact, it also has an ideological bias. I do not say ideological prejudice because there is no ideological prejudice, there is ideology, and it is ideology that debates. Therefore, there is a CDS ideology to make health a market and its proposals are always marked by this—not health as a right, but health as a market. Let us see what the CDS-PP proposes in this draft resolution: a green way to health. The name is even relatively nice, appealing, but, as you know, although it is green, the green road has toll. And it's more or less what the CDS proposes, i.e., that in access to health there is a toll to enter, to circulate, and, on the way out, a toll to pay. However, there is a problem with this economic reasoning of the CDS: if access to health is borne, many will not have the money to access this private health and thus trade in health and disease becomes unviable due to the lack of customers. But the CDS-PP has a solution: customers are arranged for the private sector and the National Health Service pays customers to the private sector. Thus, the CDS believes that here is the great solution to the health problem, which, obviously, in its terminology, is the problem of the economic groups of health. Is this the solution after all? Solution for whom? It seems to me that this is what we should discuss. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u153	Solution for the National Health Service is not, because, in fact, what is proposed is that the SNS is going to buy out, so it would be much more expensive, infinitely more expensive — the example of the tests is paradigmatic, with 100% profit rates on the part of the laboratories — what it knows how to do better and cheaper than anyone else.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u154	It's not an end in itself!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u155	Therefore, this is also not good for users, because, in the general context, what the CDS-PP is proposing is that there is less global health care for users. It is that if from the same budget, which is the budget of the National Health Service, it is proposed that the SNS buy more expensive than what makes, in the general context, the SNS, with the same budget, has the ability to perform much less purchased activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u156	Those bills! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u157	In fact, the solution presented by the CDS is good, but probably for Dr. Isabel Vaz, who left for posterity the economic doctrine of health groups: « better business than that of health only that of weapons». So I think for Dr. Isabel Vaz, for the Light, for the CUF, etc. , this CDS-PP solution is appealing, but it is not for anyone else. Back to the beginning of this intervention. The diagnosis is correct, now it is indeed necessary a solution for the recovery of all the scheduled activity, which has been unprogrammed and postponed during the last year. Solutions for this: we can increase investment in the National Health Service and we can request the private health sector, put it under SNS management, while necessary, to solve the various consequences of the pandemic. What we can't do, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's creating tolls, artificial or not, to access health. And we cannot also make the budget of the National Health Service transferred as a cake to the private sector, because that would, yes, deprive users of access to health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u158	Mr Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u159	Mr. President and Mr. Members: What we are discussing today is one more of the many proposals made over the past few years to increase the accessibility of patients to health care. The CDS now proposes that the Government create a green health pathway—from our point of view, it is a positive proposal — an initiative for which I think I am unfortunately aware of its fate, as was the case with all the proposals that the Social Democratic Party has already made to reduce waiting times for surgery, consultations, treatments and diagnostic examinations. Waiting times without the minimum of decency or compassion and in which patients are obliged to wait one, two or even three years for a specialist consultation, not worrying or taking away sleep from those who are increasingly responsible for this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u161	We already know who is interested in the use of hollow words and "don't touch me, because it is antipatriotic" to have good echoes in public opinion. For our part, we will continue to offer the Portuguese a serious alternative to the current immobilism, to the paralyzing sectarianism and to the statisticizing myopia. We believe in freedom of choice and will always favour the effective access of the users of the National Health Service, in due course, to the care and services they lack. Our social idea — and I stress'social' — is at the forefront of what the Socialist Party and its roadside companions have led the SNS on a degradation path that seems to be only interested in official propaganda and informal poisoning.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u163	It is therefore worth repeating, in fact, the facts they seek to hide. And the first of them is that the deterioration of the conditions of access of users to the health care of the SNS is prior to the current pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u165	The complainants were independent bodies such as the Court of Auditors, which already in 2017 made known, and I quote « the degradation of users' access to hospital specialty consultations and scheduled surgery ». The truth is that the situations of hospital specialties in which SNS users are obliged to wait long months, or even years, for access to the consultations and surgeries they lack are also increasingly recurrent cases of delay in conducting tests that are indispensable to patients' own accessibility and to the safety of treatments. Therefore, the PSD argues that the government gives effective and real incentives to recover the care activity in the SNS, ensuring immediate access to surgical vouchers to users. For PSD, it is increasingly unbearable the drama that patients without COVID are facing. For the PSD, it is no longer possible to hide the tragedy that currently reaches the National Health Service. Recent data from the transparency portal show that between March and the end of last year, the SNS recorded a vertigious reduction in its activity compared to the 2019 counterpart period. And, well, behind the brutality of numbers are concrete people. Thus, in primary care there was a reduction of 10 million presence contacts in health centers, with less than 7 million presence medical consultations. In hospital care there was a reduction of more than 1 million and 200 000 external medical consultations and a breakdown of more than 120,000 surgeries. With regard to the diagnosis of diseases, there were fewer than 22 million tests and, for example, less than 120,000 breast cancer screenings. Note well: behind the brutality of numbers are concrete people, Portuguese and Portuguese of body and soul. This reality has a very negative impact on patients, who have even been classified as catastrophic in the case of cancer patients, who have seen and continue to see their screenings, consultations, treatments and surgeries repeatedly postponed and unmarked, with consequences that often end up fatal. in this context, it was important that the government had approved, even in the summer of 2020, a plan to recover the care activity involving the private and social sectors in order to ensure timely access of users to medical consultations, surgeries, diagnostics and screenings, as well as the treatments they need. The proposal is intended to provide a response to non-COVID patients who have been systematically forgotten by the Government, as confirmed by the dramatic increase in avoidable mortality recorded in Portugal in the last year. Today we will again see, in this Parliament, who is next to those who suffer and who pose ideological questions above principles, when not even fundamental rights. And remember, for future memory, that with the fatality of many seems to die single, but only for now, the fault of some, few. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u166	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to remind you that the policies that have been implemented over the years by successive governments have not focused on a medium-term health vision. In particular, we continue to run after injury and continue to ignore a health policy that is the most obvious of all, prevention and health promotion. It is essential, in fact, to do this debate, to change the way we approach and consider health and to debate the National Health Service in depth, in a medium and long-term perspective. But in today's debate we cannot separate the improvement of the SNS from the appreciation of its professionals, which can only be achieved with adequate working conditions, with the creation and revision of careers and with fair wages. in this matter, we have seen a permanent delay in the resolution of contractual injustices and the review of remuneration positions or careers, with effective losses of years in terms of salary and professional recognition, which, well we know, has led to a departure of these professionals to the private sector or even out of our country. Several initiatives were presented in this House, many of them by the hand of the NAP in terms of career regulation, hiring resources, strengthening visual health care and the number of physiotherapists or psychologists, building hospital infrastructures and health centers, finally, a commitment to close health and prevention. We understand that only on the basis of such measures is that we can have a strong, effective SNS in response, within or outside a health crisis, and that we can guarantee equitable access to anyone who runs through it. This debate has to be done and we recognize it particularly important for the context we live in, given the urgent need to create faster response mechanisms and to ensure responses and access to health. We also understand that the government has had time to submit this timetable, it has had time to present these answers, but it has not yet done so. For the NAP, it is only possible to accept a proposal like this, provided that, in a dialogue between the Government and private or social entities, they are guarded as costs similar to those of the SNS and that they are, in fact, restricted to an exceptional period.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u168	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today brings up a draft resolution that recommends the Government to create a green road to health, in this case a green road to the disease business, as we were waiting for. First of all, let me focus on two previous points. Despite the difficulties and shortcomings faced by the National Health Service, it has proved to be the solution and instrument to ensure and ensure health care for all, regardless of their economic conditions. But the difficulties experienced in access to health care — difficulties that are not new today, are not new, are not recent, and have not come with the pandemic, only increased, have gained greater size — they are, in the first place, the political options and the investment made by successive PS, PSD and CDS governments. Therefore, when the PCP here, in June last year, brought an emergency plan to respond to health, in particular to the system deficiencies caused by the pandemic, we are surprised by the position of PS, PSD and CDS, who did not want to respond with the necessary strengthening of the National Health Service. Of course, recovery of health care, suspended as an effect of the pandemic, must be a priority. But the solution of the problems that condition the normal functioning of the National Health Service does not happen to transfer millions to the private, it does not happen to transfer to the private the provision of health care, but, rather, through more investment, more funding, more health professionals and better equipment. A green route, yes, to strengthen the diagnostic and therapeutic capacity of the National Health Service, by modernizing the equipment necessary for the diagnosis and progressively internalizing the complementary means of diagnosis in the National Health Service. A green road, yes, for the reinforcement of the number of beds, the more than 4000 that right-wing policy has closed and now so lacking. The Government should immediately establish a green route with procedures to phase out the number of beds, whether in hospital care or in intensive care, whether in continuous integrated care, or in palliative care. A green way, yes, for the hiring of workers, because they know very well the CDS, but also the PSD, which is here that attacks and weakens the National Health Service, i.e., is by the attack on their professionals, and therefore do not present proposals, especially for the hiring of more doctors, more nurses, more superior health technicians, more superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, more operational assistants, more technical assistants. Yes, proposals that reinforce the National Health Service! A green route, yes, for the valorization of the workers of the National Health Service, with better careers and better wages, with an adequate remuneration that dignifies their exercise, with the creation of an exclusive commitment regime in the SNS, obviously of an optional nature, and with their plan of incentives. A green route, yes, for specialized medical training. There are hundreds of undifferentiated doctors waiting to complete their specialized medical training. Therefore, it is fundamental a green way that, yes, initiates specialized medical training for all internal physicians in order to begin this specialization, integrating the framework of hospital care of medical careers, in order to train and prepare the doctors necessary for the functioning of the National Health Service. A green route, yes, for the assignment of the doctor and the family nurse, because one thing is known: if we do not have doctors and nurses of the family, it will reduce access to specialist consultations and thus the reference network. Therefore, it is fundamental a green way to ensure the conduct of presence consultations with family doctors. A green route, yes, for public health, occupational health and mental health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u170	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u171	I will finish, Mr. President. We are not on the side of those who want a green way to underfinancing, because underfunding increases the profits of the private at the expense of public money. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u172	You have the floor on behalf of the PS, Mr Ivan Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution we are discussing today addresses an important issue, the way in which the pandemic we cross affects the health care provided to non-COVID patients. From the first moment that we all knew that, in the face of the biggest public health crisis of the last 100 years, it would be inevitable that the planned care activity would be affected, as it has been, indeed, throughout the world. However, it is important to highlight the additional effort that has been made, not only of the recovery of this same activity, taking advantage, in particular, of the moments of lower pressure, but also of the way in which during this year we have been fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, the SNS and its professionals have been able to adapt to the new circumstances. They knew how to adapt through the creation of differentiated circuits COVID-19 and not COVID-19 in hospitals, through a strategy to strengthen the response of primary health care, through presence, non-presenceal and home care, allowing decongestion of hospitals, and that went through, for example, the establishment of 20 new family health units, the use of digital centers and the strengthening of mobile and fixed communication equipment, ensuring that medical care would not stop even in time of pandemic. With a view to the recovery of the planned activity not performed by the pandemic, incentives for additional production of first consultations and necessary surgeries were also increased and contractual models with the private sector and with the social sector were defined. For example, thousands of Portuguese have been able to use the surgical check during this period. What this proposal is trying to do is to create a model similar to that of the surgical check, which has had good results, and to apply it, without great criteria, to the first specialist consultations. The question is that, contrary to what happens to the surgeries, in which the problem that motivates them is fully resolved with the surgical act and can therefore be issued a voucher in case there is no timely response by the National Health Service, the consultation of specialty implies subsequent follow-up, with supplementary consultations or examinations of diagnosis subsequent to the conduct of this first consultation. In other words, the problem that motivates the expert consultation is not solved in a single act or in a single consultation. Access to a specialist consultation, broken down by all other interventions necessary for the treatment of the patient, would improve the maximum guaranteed response times, but would not solve what matters, which is to ensure the necessary health care, in an integrated and user-centred way. It also does not seem to us that it is the best way to ensure the efficiency of public resources at the disposal of the SNS, which can be achieved, for example, by measures such as the Integrated Access Management System, which today allows any user, regardless of their place of residence, to be able, together with his family doctor, to choose which is the public hospital where he wants to be attended, taking into account his waiting times. It is with improving the efficiency of your resources and with investing in the SNS that we can recover from the delay caused by the pandemic. It is this bet that has existed by the Government of the Socialist Party and that is why, over the past five years, the number of SNS professionals has increased by almost 25,000 effective and that these professionals have seen their careers valued, by awarding a performance premium to approximately 25,000 professionals who were in front of the fight against COVID-19, with the pay supplements for the exercise of health authority functions and with the pay supplements allocated to public health doctors, when subject to a permanent availability regime. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, facts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no way to go through such a public health crisis without testing health systems. But what we know is that we were much better prepared to face situations like this than we would be when the right was government. They were years of successive budgeting and disinvestment in health, a trend that, fortunately, was reversed from 2015 when the Socialist Party government took possession. From there, the SNS budget increased by almost 2, 4 billion euros. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, facts. All these investments have been reinforced since the beginning of the pandemic and added to a huge effort by health professionals who, over the past year, have given their best, which have made it possible to ensure that the National Health Service does not collapse, contrary to what you repeatedly Vatican. In fact, you have an ideological prejudice against the National Health Service, which is still the same prejudice that led you to vote against its creation a few decades ago, and look repeatedly at the National Health Service with distrust. Mrs. Members, no one knows what it would be like to face the biggest public health crisis of the last 100 years with a National Health Service as you left it in 2015, but we know that, in these conditions, we would probably have no other solution but to do what you now would like to do: to deliver and pay to the private what is the responsibility of the State, which is to ensure quality health to all Portuguese regardless of their economic condition and origin, a function that is assured, and very well, by our National Health Service and by their professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u174	There are people waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u175	We shall then proceed to the conclusion of this debate, for which Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u176	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to insist again. I don't know how many times I have said this in this plenary, but I will say once again: I am not here to defend the large private groups, which so much occupy the thoughts of the honourable Members. Mr Moses Ferreira and Mr John Dias — you are obsessed with it! — I am here because there are people who do not have health care in time and hours and who need them and, as proved in this pandemic, often the only way to act is to divert these people to where this capacity exists, which is the private and social sector, duly guarded, duly contractualized with the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u177	That's not what you're proposing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u178	It is people who, before the pandemic, had already expected and who, after the pandemic, under potentially aggravated health conditions, will continue to wait for their legitimate right to health care. This is the result of your choices, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The SNS will not be able to respond to what was left behind, in the whole country, to everyone and in good time. And it is not just I who say it, finally, there are other people who say it, and within the SNS : Dr. António Sarmento, of the hospital of São João ; Dr. Patrícia Pacheco, of the hospital Amadora-Sintra ; Dr. Maria do Céu Machado ; Mr. Bastonário of the Order of Doctors, still this week. They are people who work in the SNS, who defend the SNS as a central part, but who recognize that there is a time when it is necessary to activate this capacity, for the benefit of all. And, ladies and gentlemen, they are frightened. Members, and Mr Ivan Gonçalves, also the Minister of Health, half a dozen days ago, at the CUF Tejo, I repeat, at the CUF Tejo — see the sacrilege there! — he said: « (...) since the beginning of the pandemic that the links of collaboration between the various actors in the Portuguese health system have strengthened (...) » — Mrs Health Minister, who is quite suspicious and we have heard her say a lot— « (...) now, more recently, working shoulder to shoulder». And he said more, he said that now, from this pandemic, many lessons will come out and that the need to continue a joint work, shoulder to shoulder, is certainly one of them. Even Mrs. Health Minister has noticed! What's missing for the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, will you understand? Oh, my God! Therefore, the question is always the same and it is only one: you will continue barricaded within the SNS, because what you are interested in is the SNS, and you will rub in people, and now also in health professionals, who are worn out and clearly cannot give more answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u179	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u180	I conclude, Mr. President. As I said, they get drunk in people or they're going to be on their side, their health and their lives, giving them the chance to have a consultation or complementary means of diagnosis, where do they exist? Oh, my God! [[Applause from the IL.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u181	Mrs. Members, we have concluded this debate and we will move to the sixth point of our agenda, in which we will jointly appreciate the Resolution Projects Nos 903 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the strategic review of curricular programmes for the recovery of students from constraints caused by COVID-19 and 905 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Education for animal protection and welfare and, in general, Law Projects No 646 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Exceptionally creates deduction of values related to the acquisition of computer equipment for students and 668 / XIV / 2. a (NAP) — Ensures deductibility within IRS of costs with the acquisition or repair of computers, amending the IRS Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. To present the NAP projects, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we bring to this debate the educational policies, through three projects that aim: to ensure the preparation of the next school year, ensuring that a strategic and rigorous review of curriculum programs takes place, with a medium and long-term vision; to ensure that those who have to acquire or repair computer equipment, the result of the context we live, can make their deduction within IRS (tax on the income of natural persons) ; and to take the school as a primary area of citizenship, where education for protection and animal welfare is a political decision. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health context has already forced the country to two periods of presenceal educational stopping, one of a preventive nature, which placed us as the Portuguese miracle in the management of the first wave, and another of a remedyative nature, late, despite the numerous appeals that were already made in the scientific community, in hospitals and also by the voice of the NAP. These decisions require, in parallel, prompt and courageous social and educational responses. In view of the impact of COVID-19 on learning, socialization, on the school and formative course, the government has two options: look at reality and find innovative solutions to minimize damage; or put the head in the sand, pretend it's all right and define, for new problems, the solutions of the past, marked by time overload, the extension of contents or the high number of students per class. The impact of this crisis on the education and success of children and young people does not coincide with reducing measures, such as the extension of the school year. Faced with the worsening gap of inequalities, however much the effort of educational communities, it is difficult to achieve the desired use of school for all. There is a real risk of compromising younger generations with regard to the future and making losses irrecoverable, of which they have no responsibility. The NAP therefore proposes that the Government create a team responsible for the review of programmes and curricular goals from now on. The renewal of curricula, depending on the essential contents, must be completed at the time of the beginning of the next school year. In addition to this medium-term change, the NAP proposes that this context be taken advantage of for the implementation of online educational models, as opposed to a digitization of teaching. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on a second initiative, we warn that computer equipment is essential in access to education. Not being guaranteed to all, as the government would be responsible, it is logical and evident that the costs for the acquisition and repair of these computer equipment can be deducted from IRS. The government that says employers have to guarantee computer equipment to workers is the same government that does not guarantee them to their teachers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, recent episodes have brought environmental massacres to public knowledge and against animals that demonstrate the failure of the State to protect ecosystems and species that share the planet with us. As in other matters, it is in public education policies that the government must invest in transforming the present and future society. This is when we ask the Members and the Members. Members: Should education for the protection and treatment of animals be a government commitment or should it continue to be an option? For the NAP, the answer is clear and therefore we propose that the National Strategy for Education for Citizenship be reviewed in order to include, on a compulsory basis, the domain of "animal well-being" in the school curriculum, and we also propose that the Ministry pursue in the implementation of an autonomous and independent pedagogical reference on animal welfare, set up by an interdisciplinary working group. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is more efficient to invest in educational policies than in punishments in the future. It will certainly be more positive a commitment to empathy than a commitment to violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u183	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u184	In conclusion, civil society is moving forward in its demands on animal treatment. It is necessary to know whether this Parliament is also in the 21st century, in its votes, or whether it will remain in the 19th century.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u185	To present the CDS project, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This agenda brings together three themes, which makes the discussion a little complex, but let's try some parts. The first initiative of the NAP proposes, in the middle of 2. the period of the academic year, the creation of a working group to review curricula and curricular goals of each year, to adjust them to distance teaching. It is a very feared proposal, considering that reviewing programs and curricula is already, of itself, a complex and unconsensual work, even in times of normality, but finally... Recognizing, however, that teaching strategies and pedagogical methods must be adapted to the reality we live in, intermittent between face-to-face teaching and distance, it seems to us that the effort must be, first, to find all ways to ensure that students learn what is prescribed for each year. at this stage, students need more, do not need less and can therefore be achieved by extending the school year, either by training teachers in appropriate strategies, or by ensuring support and mentoring to students who are staying behind. This initiative has its own question of sui generis, even because the NAP asks for something and its opposite, i.e., it calls for the reduction of programmes and, therefore, if it teaches less, but at the same time guarantees the academic requirement, as opposed to facilitation. You cannot « eat the cake and stay with it on the plate», you have to decide which one you want. The second project is about animal welfare education and I will be very brief about this. Animal protection, education and awareness of children for respect for life and animal welfare should, in our view, be framed in a broad and comprehensive view of citizenship, awareness of positive values and the world, which is our common home. A child or a young person trained in these principles will surely respect animals and, more importantly, respect the entire community in which it is inserted, knowing, accepting and respecting differences. Finally, I am referring to the CDS initiative to address the failure of the Prime Minister's promise of a computer for each student. Many families — we know — have been confronted with the need to acquire computer equipment, either because of telework or as school material for their children at compulsory education age or at university, with increases in family budgets often, at the moment, already poor. That is why we propose that the charges with computer equipment of families with students from any level of education, including higher education, may be deducted from the collection of IRS, as educational expenses, by 50 % of their value and up to a maximum of 250 € per member of the aggregate. This should be an immediate measure of application, which, in the presentation of the project, we explain that it does not adhere to the norm-work and that it must also be exceptional, to support students and their families and to minimize the government's failure to comply with the conditions that are currently necessary, and we do not know if they will not have to be again, for distance teaching.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u187	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the discussion of this year's budget, the Liberal Initiative proposed that families should be able to deduct in the IRS expenditure on the acquisition of computer equipment. The objective was simple: to speed up the process of digital transition and facilitate family access to work and distance teaching tools. All this in a context that the pandemic has only accelerated, in which the role of these equipment becomes increasingly central to learning, to work, to be informed, to interact with companies, with the state itself and with each other. Our proposal at the time was plunged by PS, the Left Block and the PCP, with the abstention of the Arrival and PSD. Only the CDS and the PAN, and the Liberal Initiative, of course, voted in favour. And today, before one of the NAP proposals that goes in the same direction, we will, of course, come back to voting in favour. But I want to leave two brief final notes. The first is to say that we also agree with the NAP, when this refers to the need for and urgent review of curricula in the context of the teaching context in which we live. A second note is another warning: it was good for Minister Brandão Rodrigues to define what will be the improvement regime this year, unless he was very satisfied with the injustice and confusion we had last year, with thousands of students unable to see the exam notes contributing to the improvement of the final score. This is defined already, until we have to watch another exercise of embarrassing contortionism by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u189	For an intervention, you have the floor by the PS, Mrs Martina Jesus.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before making some considerations on the NAP draft resolutions, it should be stressed that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group values the discipline of citizenship as an instrument for combating inequalities, affirmation and respect for others and is equally sensitive to the issue of protection and promotion of animal welfare. when discussing the Resolution Project n.o 903 / XIV / 2. it is important to state that the Ministry of Education has already defined the essential learnings at the level of each discipline. These learnings contribute to achieving the profile of the student at the exit of compulsory education and do not prejudice the management of the curriculum with autonomy throughout the different teaching cycles. With regard to the recovery of learning, it is also worth noting that the school schedule was organized for a period of five weeks reserved for this purpose. The Ministry of Education and schools worked together to implement their plans, not only in those five initial weeks, but also during the school year. It was affixed to the strengthening of credits and tutoring, to the dynamisation of mentors and to other complementary measures to strengthen the means available to schools. Of course, we know and are aware that the reality that we are living requires that this type of measures and working conditions be strengthened. Therefore, a learning-strengthening work for the future is already being planned. at this time, it is important to let schools develop their work and support them in their different dynamics, as it has been found in the set of resources that have been produced and made available by the Ministry, on the school support site. It is clear that the content of this draft resolution is disruptive in relation to the consistent improvement course of the quality of learning carried out since 2016, but part of assumptions and unfounded and simplistic generalizations. With regard to draft resolution No 905 / XIV / 2. the, it should be said that the National Education Strategy for Citizenship and the law decree that supports it have a period of execution and a period for its interim and final evaluation and that, in these evaluation periods, there will be a place for the weighting and analysis of the proposed amendments, as it is important to have a period of stability to carry out this monitoring and evaluation. The same applies to the reference question. These must be aligned and framed with the essential learnings of the different disciplines. We understand that the object of this draft resolution lacks better evaluation and time frame, which clearly does not happen at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u191	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we are dealing with a real set of topics. There are, in fact, many aspects which are called for in this debate. On the first topic, on the review of curricular programmes, we note that the CFP has long argued that there must be a national debate on the reorganization of teaching cycles and on curriculum reorganization. Moreover, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 17 / 2016, which recommends that the Government initiate a process of democratic reflection and debate, wide and extended to the entire educational community, so that objectives are defined for a real and deep curriculum reform, are precisely originated in the draft Resolution No 62 / XIII / 1. a, from the PCP. If, in normal circumstances, this need for reorganization and curricular reform already existed, in the circumstances that we are going through today even more meaningful, it makes us debate this situation. Yesterday, at the hearing of Mr Minister in the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, we had the opportunity to question this very matter, taking into account the reality we are going through. It is unthinkable that everything remains the same, when everything is so different in non-presental teaching. There must be adaptations, the existing limitations need to be equationd, the problems that exist with respect to compliance with what is established must be discussed. Clearly, the situation cannot be equal to present education, when it is not. In addition to this, in particular, to this NAP initiative, on one of the points, which refers to « facilitation mechanisms », because this is not a clear and objective definition, we would like to know exactly what is meant by this. For example, the Portuguese Communist Party considers that there should be no examinations in 9. year. If this was already a situation that had previously taken place, it is now even more urgent. We would like to understand, given this definition, whether the NAP follows this proposal from the CFP or whether this abolition would be one of such « facilitation mechanisms», because we cannot understand exactly what this means. Regarding education for animal welfare, the CFP has always argued that this is a fundamental way. In addition, in the Bill No 65 / XIII / 1. a, from the PCP, which gave rise to Law No 27 / 2016, a legislation that approved the end of slaughter in dogs and cats, we precisely proposed that concerns about animal welfare existed since 1. the cycle of basic education. However, there is a situation that concerns us in the project that the NAP brings. To be the Assembly of the Republic to determine which matters are or are not mandatory may be somewhat contradictory, opening doors to, for example, temptation by certain political forces to defend that other matters should be withdrawn. This is not unpublished and has already happened in this legislature! So there is this risk and we obviously have to warn for that. Finally, with regard to computer equipment, the PCP argues that it is up to the Ministry of Education, in conjunction with schools, to ensure free access and distribution to all students and workers of the necessary technological and computer equipment, including free access to the Internet. We will not hinder the initiatives under discussion here and we will not vote against them, given the current circumstances, but rather the burden of purchasing equipment in families and workers, it must be the State to ensure that education is effectively free of charge, ensuring compliance with the Constitution in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u193	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The exceptional times we live require exceptional measures. These two school years are compromised and cannot be seen as an interruption in the course of learning. Non-emergency non-presental education has ensured a link to school and learning during confinement periods, but it is not accessible to all students and students, nor to teachers and teachers. Access to computer equipment and the Internet was, before the pandemic, a question of social justice and equality. We now know that many students only have this access at school. For more than 10 years, the computer park and networks have not been renewed. In the context of the current pandemic and socio-economic crisis, the promotion of access to computers and the Internet is essential in the right to education. For this reason, the Left Block considers that it is necessary to guarantee families access to Internet traffic appropriate to non-presental education, to ensure the distribution of computers to students and students also of professional and artistic education covered by school social action and to ensure the reimbursement of the costs incurred by teachers with the acquisition of computer material. The Ministry of Education has to work with the operators to ensure that all have access to a free Internet traffic, suitable for synchronous sessions, to speed up a discount on telecommunications invoices for all family aggregates with students and a programme for reimbursement of teachers' expenses with the acquisition of computer equipment. These resources are essential for non-emergency education. Our option will not be to create only deductions within IRS, because it does not cover non-IRS families and those who cannot forward a payment and wait for reimbursement. We have doubts about what could be an online educational model, other than in extraordinary situations and urgent situations like this, and there is no longer room for doubt about the importance of present education. The suspension of continuing teacher training was a strategic error and it must be noted that teachers mobilized, through self-teaching, through sharing and cooperation, giving the possible response to non-presental education. Social inequalities have become visible in prisons. The Left Block called attention to this reality. At the end of last school year, I told the government in vain what it needed to do in school to ease these difficulties. In addition to support and tutoring, it is essential to consider a recovery plan for all education. Having as reference the Profile of Students at the Exit of Compulsory School and the essential and subsequent learnings, it is necessary to clear what is not essential, such as the learning goals, which added content to the already long programs. We need to look at the final 9 test. the year of Portuguese and Mathematics and question its relevance in the curriculum, which sacrifices the disciplines of humanity, essential for the profile of students. A two-year recovery plan needs to include a reduction in the number of students per class, allowing close monitoring of each student's learnings and thus overcoming the negative effects of confinements on learning. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u195	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD does not endorse the concepts that guide the current educational policy by devaluing the role of teachers, making them a mere host of the classroom, by distorting the curriculum by supposed flexibility and autonomy, without any perceptible purpose. The concepts and values of discipline, effort and rational organization of learning are removed from educational grammar. The examinations and other evaluation instruments are adopted and what is done is to underestimate the fundamental value of knowledge and ignore the structural power of mathematics, mother tongue and science. The current educational moment in our country is worrying. The Ministry of Education has consistently failed with students, teachers and the other educational community. Every day we live in confinement, in telework or in distance education, is a day when the poorest and least qualified people have fewer tools to win, even more at the mercy of state support. There are 90 % students waiting for the arrival of computers and others waiting for the social rate of the internet, which is only due in June, almost at the end of the school year. The government has failed and continues to fail with the students and their families, it is useful to make advertisements and more advertisements, but to implement the measures it is proposed is that it is more difficult. The Government's promise to guarantee equal access to computer equipment is far from being fulfilled. Only one tenth of the computers arrived at the schools. It is therefore essential that the Government create mechanisms to ensure that costs for computer acquisition, used in training and education, can be deductible within IRS. This will be the way to compensate for the failure of the Ministry of Education. For this reason, the PSD will vote in favour of the NAP and CDS-PP bills, which aim to deduct values related to the acquisition of computer equipment for students. Many families had to buy computer equipment so that their educators could accompany the classes in distance education, because they could not wait for the distribution to the accounts of the promised computers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft Resolution No 903 / XIX/ 2. a, which the NAP brought to the discussion this afternoon, is well-intentioned, although it works in several misconceptions. Of course, because you believe that curricular reviews can be done under urgent pressure to deal with the impacts of the pandemic situation on students' learning. Flexibility and autonomy, as well as the so-called 'essential' learnings, have become a minimum programme. In view of this situation, what future do we want to form the new generations? What to do when everything changes? The answer can only be one: focus on what does not change. And what doesn't change? Consolidated knowledge, cultural heritage, the values of citizenship and human development. This strategic option is the only one that guarantees us the realization of the principle of equity and the purpose of quality education for all. Combating curricular obesity takes time — time to analyze, measure, test, re-adapt the plan to national reality. Schools need stability, routines, and it is in these aspects that they should gradually anchor the necessary changes. It is in this body that confidence is generated in the potentialities of our educational system. And how he's been tested! How do schools, teachers, families, communities in all their revealed, in the sense of duty and responsibility, have been the shield of this government's inaction! It is not because we disagree with the guidance that has been printed on our educational system with socialist governance that we can corroborate proposals for the creation of more working groups, which add noise and work, but do not add value. In the current context, we should not be so challenging for schools, teachers, students and educational administration to add more entropies, with new references, to add themes that are already considered in the National Education Strategy for Citizenship. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u197	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must, of course, guarantee resources and digital means to students with less economic conditions. However, these proposals of the CDS-PP and of the NAP on the tax subject of deducting the costs of acquisition of computer resources within IRS, in addition to being not effective, as I will demonstrate, are socially unfair and totally ignored! — the measures and actions of the Government. As for the substance, first of all, creating deductions within IRS does not help to solve the problem with the acquisition of computers, from then on in the most deprived classes, since this part of the population does not even pay IRS. Secondly, this measure would take advantage of a number of citizens who do not need this encouragement. Thirdly, it would enhance the acquisition of computers not necessarily to support the study. I would like to know which mechanisms have the NAP and the CDS, because in their initiatives no control and verification mechanism is foreseen that the acquisition of computers is for the purpose of supporting the study. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] In fact, I want to say specifically to Mrs. Member of the CDS-PP, who laughs behind the mask,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] ...that this deduction could ultimately benefit taxpayers of higher income! We know that the CDS defends the socially blind philosophy of the 'teaching check' and would like to replicate it in a 'computer deduction', but that does not correspond to the fiscal justice we defend. Fourthly, the purpose of the e-factory programme is related to the fight against fraud and tax evasion, which these proposals affect. Fifthly, these expenditure — we will clarify — are already eligible for deduction in IRS, in the context of general and family expenditure. We have serious doubts about compliance with the labour law in this area, because it has an impact on the deductions provided for in the IRS and contrary to the State budget. Therefore, we deserve serious reservations. It's not the moment. It was in 2020 that the Government clarified and implemented the computer acquisition and distribution plan. It was in the budget of the State when tax measures were taken that should be stable in this field...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u199	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u200	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the government has already distributed 100,000 computers, which have covered all students from steps A and B, and that more 335 000 computers are being distributed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u201	To cash!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u202	... within the Digital School program. At the Council of Ministers on 4 February, the Government approved the acquisition of more than 15 000 computers. In 10 seconds, Mr President, referring to a practical situation: in addition to a Member, I am a councilman in the City Hall of Vila Nova de Famalicão, a municipality with about 140 000 inhabitants. Today, at a camera meeting, they said—and I am unsuspecting, because the municipality is even a majority PSD and CDS-PP — that all students of the 2. o is 3. the cycles of the municipality of Vila Nova de Famalicão had already been covered by the distribution of computers. The education councilman said that computers are already being distributed by the government by all 1 students. the cycle and that will intensify this distribution next week. This is the reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u203	The floor is now for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the diversity of projects that have been scheduled and with the short time available, it is not possible to have a more detailed discussion and The Greens consider that the topics under discussion deserve to be dealt with in depth. With regard to distance teaching, taken as a measure of prevention and containment of the CVID-19 pandemic, it has contributed to clearly revealing inequalities between students, such as access to the Internet or computer material, with profound and undeniable implications for learning processes. However, for compulsory students, given that nowadays computers are a fundamental instrument, such as books, they must be given free of charge to students and, as such, also access to the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these computers must have the necessary robustness and hardware so that they do not become a disposable tool at the end of the teaching cycle. The complaints that come to us are that some computers delivered to students are already damaged or damaged in the first uses, as has been found in schools of Santa Maria da Feira or Arouca. On the other hand, the Ministry of Education has to be able to plan the next school years in order to avoid dropout and, in particular, has to redouble efforts to ensure that all students are properly accompanied to address the difficulties that may have been encountered with the pandemic, due to the specificities of these two school years. To achieve this, the Greens consider that it is urgent to reduce the number of students per class, so that teachers can pay due attention to each student and that the existence of tests should be reconsidered when only with a continuous evaluation will it be possible to overcome the difficulties of the students. But we will have the opportunity to discuss, in this plenary later, proposals which have recently been tabled by Green Poles on these two matters. As far as education for the protection of animal welfare is concerned, the Greens have already pointed out that 'the houses are not built on the roof', because firstly, they choose to defend criminalisation' and even proposals for aggravating penalties for those who abuse animals are made, and then they work essentially. The essential thing for the Greens is this: to work on changing mentalities and to work on the importance that domestic animals, and others, have in the lives of all, including in the lives of those who adopt them. The campaigns of respect for all animals and adoption of abandoned animals are essential instead of being bought, but the most important thing is to teach children and young people to respect animals, opting for cross-cutting in the disciplines. This is essential for the change of attitudes and behaviors to take place, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that the respect we have for animals will say a lot about us as a society.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u205	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has failed to distribute computers and that is why we are discussing today the tax deductibility of computers. But listening to Mr Nuno Sá says that it does not resolve anything to bring to this House that whoever has already paid IRS does not need the aid of tax deductibility or is hypocrisy or is a great lack of knowledge, because it is the same as telling the middle class that has no right to the same computers that have such steps A and B, to which you have already distributed them. I say more to you: as you say not to make sense in terms of tax deductibility has already been in force, because Law No 127 - B / 97 has already provided for this situation! It was in force between 2001 and 2003, with the support of the Socialist Party! Imagine that situation! I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that in 2008 this measure was again in force, with the support of the Socialist Party! Now he comes here and says: « This doesn't solve anything, it's not worth it». We have to look at the facts and see what we have. The truth is that we should not be discussing tax deductibility, we should be discussing State direct investment in computer distribution. But if that doesn't happen, then technology can be deductible at least in the IRS of those who pay it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u207	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u208	I will finish, Mr. President. Come to say, Mr, that you can be deducted from general expenses, when you know, as I know, that the maximum deduction is 30 % of the collection and 800 € of the general limit, is to enjoy those you work with! Not advertising a programme that we see a lot in the SIC, it is in fact to enjoy those who work with.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u209	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like not to leave Mr Nuno Sá with no answer. He had so much work and devoted himself so much to my intervention that I would even find it rude to say something to him. He said that as the CDS proposes it is socially unfair because it harms the most disadvantaged students. I would like to reassure you, because, in fact, what you said and what the Minister of Education said yesterday is that the students covered by school social action, those who, in principle, correspond to the most disadvantaged family aggregates, have already received computers. They've already received 100 000 and they're going to get 335 000 next. Your concern, then, is that you favor those who are part of the most favored aggregates. But, Mr President, if we consider correctly between a tax deduction and offer the full value of a school backpack, computers, headphones and Internet access, I do not know very well what your concern is. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] I would very much like you to be concerned about these differences, but I would like to ask you whether you are not worried about the fact that those who pay these backpacks are all the taxpayers, the richest ones and the poorest ones. Maybe this should give you a little thought.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u211	To close this debate, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by commenting on Mrs Ana Rita Bessa's statement in a way that integrates the various contributions from this debate. It seems, indeed, that we have become very distant in the solutions that we defend for the next few years and in the way we see educational policies, particularly because the CDS believes that the solution to regain and consolidate learning is to add more content. He said students need too much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u213	Don't! I did not say "more content"!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u214	I leave you a comparison in relation to this, thanks to which you will understand exactly what we want: comparison with the process of vaccine development. We knew that at first it would be a vaccine to be developed in 10 years, but steps have moved forward, they have adjusted with due rigour, with due security. Deep down, that's what we're trying to do. We know that there will tend to be a 10-year impact on our children and young people at learning level. We therefore want the programme contents to be adjusted in a medium- to long-term perspective to be reviewed by the curricular programmes. Yes, we must « step on the way». We distance ourselves from the vision of the CDS to this problem. Regarding the intervention of the Socialist Party, once again for this party everything is fine in education policies. I call on you. Members, in their visits to schools, dialogue with teachers about the necessary adjustments to essential learning and the time devoted to consolidating these essential learnings, which we know does not come to anything else. I give you a very concrete example: since 1991 there has not been a review of the programmatic contents of history and geography. How can the PS continue to consider that there is no need to review content and that there is no need to reduce programmatic content? Oh, my God! With regard to animal welfare, it seems that both the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party have made it clear that, in terms of educational policies, it is not a commitment, but an option, which, of course, we regret and condemn.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u215	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u216	In reply to the honourable Member of the CFP, I would say that we really intend to avoid facilitation mechanisms because there are no answers that force the passage of students. Of course, we are in agreement with the immense pressure on teachers and students at the level of too many and extensive content, which are based on an end-of-year evaluation, as mentioned by the evidence of the 9. year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u217	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the sixth item on our agenda, so we move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of draft resolution No 913 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Conversion into permanent contracts of nurses' contracts with precarious links in order to ensure the stability of the SNS, together with, in general, the Law Projects No 644 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Fight precarious health with the conversion of work contracts to indefinite or non-term time and 667 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Final hiring of professionals of the National Health Service with precarious links. To present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of the need to respond to the problems arising from the pandemic, the Government has been taking an extraordinary and urgent set of measures. Among these measures is the creation of the exceptional scheme for the establishment of legal employment relations in the field of health, in particular the hiring of workers for the establishment of end-term working bonds, for periods of four months, renewables for equal periods, services and other entities, including the public business sector of the Ministry of Health in order to strengthen the SNS response. However, the successive disinvestment in the National Health Service has kept thousands of nurses working in situations of work insecurity. It happens that the professional instability of nurses affects all those professionals, whether with replacement contracts, term contracts or contracts in response to the pandemic. It is true that for nurses with term contracts, four-month contracts concluded under the regime provided for in Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, the Government would approve in October last year the conversion to non-term or indefinite contracts for nurses who, by the end of December 2020, had an eight-month term of « COVID contract », i.e. two four-month contracts. The transition to the tables would depend on the existence of places available on the staff map of the entity and, according to trade union structures, will have been covered by this measure about 500 nurses. A new conversion of contracts should cover health professionals who perform eight months of contract on 31 March 2021 in accordance with Decree-Law No 89 / 2020. However, this exception measure not only solved a part of the problem as it leaves thousands of nurses in inequality who, being also at the front of this pandemic, many of whom with replacement contracts three and four years ago or with term contracts, have not been removed from injustice and remain in a precarious labour situation, unlike other professionals who have been providing services in health institutions for less time and whose contracts have been, well, converted into non-term or indefinite contracts. That is, nurses with precarious links, who have been serving for years in public hospitals and with more time of service in these entities, continue to be penalized in access to hospital settings. This reality persists, despite these professionals responding to the permanent needs of the SNS and facing harsh working conditions, with hours of 12 consecutive hours, the postponement of vacation joy from the beginning of the pandemic, the suspension of flexible schedules that prevent the enjoyment of parental rights, the reduction of breaks and rest times and the high risk of professional exposure to the new coronavirus to which they are subject, which has led to the recognition and public homage of their dedication and the necessity of their services. As the Greens have warned, it is essential to promote appropriate working conditions to ensure the establishment of these professionals in the National Health Service and the return of public investment in their training so that the recognition of their professionalism and excellence does not occur only outside the door. It is for this purpose that the Greens present this legislative initiative, in order for the Government to convert term or replacement contracts into indefinite contracts for all nurses who respond to the permanent needs of the services, and that conversion should cover professionals irrespective of such precarious contracts have been concluded in the context of the pandemic or before the pandemic. [[Congrats from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u219	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the strengthening of the National Health Service is the solution to the COVID-19 epidemic and to the recovery of care activities, the strengthening of health professionals is essential to ensure the ability to provide the necessary health care. This requirement is not consistent with the maintenance of the hiring of health professionals with precarious links to the performance of permanent functions. With this decision, the Government does not guarantee stability, does not dignity professional performance or respects the rights of health professionals, leading to their withdrawal from the SNS. It is by strengthening the rights of health professionals, by their professional, social and remuneration valuation, by valuing and dignity of their careers, which reinforces the SNS, which strengthens their ability to respond and which fix health professionals in the SNS. Now this has not been the government's option. When it should be ensuring effective links to the public service, the Government continues to encourage the hiring of health professionals, who are required every day in public health services, with four months'employment contracts renewable for more than four months, only providing for their linkage if they perform eight months until 31 March 2021. That is, all those who were hired after 31 July 2020 are excluded and are dismissed. For example, only with regard to nurses, this decision leaves out more than 1800 nurses who perform permanent functions and who are needed every day in the SNS. After the commitment and dedication of these health professionals throughout this period, in a context of extreme complexity and demand in which the SNS is placed, exposed to the risk of infection, what the government has to offer them is unemployment. It is unacceptable that the Government prepares to dispense workers that are necessary in the health facilities of the SNS for the provision of care when numerous deficiencies are identified in health centres and hospitals, as demonstrated by the thousands of extraordinary hours carried out, workers who work daily 12 or more hours, leading to exhaustion. In the SNS, workers are hired at a time prior to the epidemic that continue to have a precarious link despite performing permanent functions, and therefore the effective link must also be ensured. The PCP provides solutions to solve these problems, which are identified. They are solutions that pass through the conversion of employment contracts to time indefinite or unterminated by all health workers with precarious links and that perform permanent functions, ensuring the effective bonding whether they have been hired at or during the pandemic, thus combating precariousness. If there is no vacancy on the staff map, they are automatically authorized to allow all workers to be linked. They are also solutions for the consideration of all service time for the purpose of changing the remuneration position and for the application of a transitional scheme to workers whose contract ceased after 31 March 2021, ensuring their extension until the conversion of the contract of work into indefinite or indefinite time. Health workers employed in the context of combating the epidemic are needed today and are needed in the future to ensure the proper functioning of the health units that integrate the SNS. We greet and value all health professionals. The appreciation and recognition of these workers are strengthened by their rights, combating precariousness, ensuring the stability of the bond, as proposed by the CFP. Therefore, in this debate, in the Assembly of the Republic, there is an opportunity here for all those who say recognizing and defending health workers, their commitment and their professional dedication; it is important that this actually translate into concrete actions. And the concrete action we are currently taking is to put an end to precariousness and ensure the stability and effective linkage to all these workers. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u221	You have the floor, for an intervention, by the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, no one is able to question the importance of the role of health professionals. Today, no one is also able to challenge this evidence, this importance. The need that the country has for these health professionals is permanent and not temporary. It is permanent because we will still live this pandemic for months, but more than that, it is permanent because, for many more months, we will have to recover all the activity that has to be done during and due to this pandemic. It is permanent because the various consequences of the pandemic will increase the health needs in the population, from mental health to chronic diseases that have remained to be controlled or to diseases that emerged without an early diagnosis. Therefore, they are permanent needs not only in the National Health Service, but also in the country. from that question: then, why is there the National Health Service recruiting professionals with a view to permanent needs on a temporary basis? Why is there a National Health Service hiring for some time who is needed all the time? There's no reason for this. There is no justification for this. However, this has been the government's option, i.e. to contract for only four months, sometimes renewable once up to a limit of eight months, and not to pass on to permanent contracts that already existed, as is the case with replacement contracts. This wrong option obviously has consequences: four-month contracts to be concluded and workers to be dispensed in the full pandemic, as happened in November, for example in the hospital of Braga ; or substitute workers to be sent even though they are necessary in permanent functions, as recently happened at the Hospital Center of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro. There is difficulty in capturing and fixing professionals. We have often heard the government say that it is impossible to find more nurses and that it is very difficult to find more operational assistants for the National Health Service. Podera! ... Offering four-month contracts is much more difficult! If there are no contracts worthy, it is much harder to find professionals for the National Health Service. It's all wrong! And yet, with the Government insisting, persisting, the mistake. There is a complaint about this lack of professionals, but it does not provide conditions for permanent recruitment. It's a mistake on the part of the government! If we want to have more doctors and not less than we had at the beginning of the pandemic, if we want to have more nurses, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, superior health technicians, operating assistants, etc. , we have to have serious employment contracts in the National Health Service. Now, that is what the Left Block proposes with the bill that brings the debate and the vote: to convert all precarious or temporary contracts into permanent contracts; to permanently contract in the National Health Service, that is, for indefinite time, all four-month contracts. More than that, because there are many other precarious situations in the National Health Service, our project also covers conversion into permanent contract or for indefinite time, as they wish, for those and those workers who have been hired precariously before the pandemic, but who today reveal permanent needs. It also covers those and those who, during the pandemic, may have been hired temporarily or precariously, but not under this exceptional four-month regime and who today are permanent needs in the National Health Service. It also covers the contracts and contracts of the National Health Service under a scheme of temporary absence from the work of another worker but which today are permanent needs in the National Health Service and therefore have to stay in the National Health Service. What is underlying the left block bill is very simple: for permanent needs in the National Health Service, then there are permanent contracts in the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u223	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to remember that nurses have been the target of injustice for at least 15 years. The nursing career continues to be valued in our country and since 2005 we have seen a number of political decisions that I cannot forget: freezing and defrosting careers; the creation of categories that disregard the time of service; contracts for individual employment contracts with the same responsibilities and obligations as public employment contracts and more discrimination on holiday, working hours and even counting points for career progression; specialist nurses working as such (with training paid for themselves) but not receiving more for that reason; nurses with more than 10 years of career receiving exactly the same as their first-day colleague as a nurse, and what is wrong is not the pay of the nurse who now begins his duties, of course. There are countless situations that nurses have been subject to over the years, sometimes raising their voice, sometimes doing only their work and sometimes emigranting in mass in search of more respect and appreciation, as did more than 20,000 professionals in this area: 1230 only last year and more than 4000 in 2019! However, it seems that there are still political decision makers who prefer to hit palms, but for those who have been so disrespected over the years, these palms sound bad. Let us then see what the Portuguese nurses' palms are worth by successive governments. In August 2020, 64% of nurses in the National Health Service in the first category of the career, that of generalist nurses, take the lowest wage value in the nursing career of the SNS. It is 21,428 generalist nurses to be paid as if they had all finished the nursing course a few months ago. in this category, only 4 % is in the middle of the table and only 0, 04 % is in the maximum step. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 14 nurses! Now looking at nurses who are paid as specialists, because there are many with the training but not the remuneration, 44% of the professionals in this category are in the lowest pay position and only 8% are in the middle or above in the category of specialist nurse. We remember that the NAP draft resolution was approved for the valorization and dignity of nurses in Portugal, a recommendation to the Government, with the vote against the PS. This is one of many examples of the efforts we have devoted to this cause and we hope that the Government will comply with what is required of this House recommendation, following up negotiations with the sector entities. To conclude, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the proposals here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u225	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss three initiatives that address the human resources needs of health professionals in the SNS. In fact, they do not deal well with the problem of lack of health professionals in their origin and multiple causes, they focus on a single issue, which is a left-hand agenda, which is the link of these professionals to the Public Administration. The Block is even quite clear in its main objective. It says in the Exhibition of Reasons, and I quote: "It is also evident that the need to capture and fix in the National Health Service as many professionals as possible..." says this in the first paragraph. It says maximum, it does not say the right ones, not the necessary ones for each service or unit; no, they are all! All in all services and agencies of all direct or indirect administration of the Ministry of Health, all! In addition, the CFP adds the consolidation of service time for the purpose of changing positioning. Do it, honor be done to it, always and in all sectors, without any consideration or concern about the budgetary weight imposed on taxpayers. But, of course, the ideological agendas do not, of course, deal with these questions. Having said this, we are not indifferent to the needs of health professionals, and this is how the CDS has approved Law No. 87 / 2019, which strengthens the autonomy of the SNS entities for the hiring of human resources and is in this context and in this spirit, together with demanding capital investment needs in the means of the SNS, which we put and think about the issue of contracts. A final word on the draft resolution of the Greens, which we accompany and which puts the issue on the issue of nurses. In fact, we know that the ratio of nurses, 4, 2 nurses / 1000 inhabitants in Portugal, is of the lowest in the OECD. We know that there was an increase in the immigration of nurses during the pandemic and that this was related to the working conditions, wages and contracts; we know that all SNS and private hospitals complained about the lack of nurses during this phase; and we also know that we have proposed in this phase. It houses legislative initiatives that will require nurses, either in the area of palliative care, or in the area of family nurses. We therefore believe that this issue deserves indeed a consideration by the government, with a policy of setting nurses in the SNS according to the needs identified, post-pandamy, units and also the type of care to be provided. We will therefore follow this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u227	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are before the discussion of three legislative initiatives — a recommendation of the ENP and two draft laws, one of the Left Block and another of the CFP — to combat precarious links in the health sector. About this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the PSD is very concerned about this escalation of precariousness, especially in this sector which we are discussing today, the health sector, but we are far from following the methodology proposed by the Left Block and the PCP through its projects. We have done so in the past: we follow the intention, we follow the concern, but the methodology is far from being rigorous and serious for the management of human resources in the state. in this sense, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are proposing here is the creation of a new programme for the extraordinary regularization of precarious links in the State, in this case only specific to the health sector, because the first failed. As the first failed and you have no courage to come here to admit that you have failed and have created expectations for about 116 000 workers, when, in 2015, they have made a diagnosis to justify the creation of the programme, they are ashamed to pronounce the acronym PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration), but in this regard our position is very clear and you have only to adjust accounts with the government and apologize to the workers. You only have to settle accounts with the government and apologize to the workers because this fight against precariousness, which you decided to do together on behalf of a government agreement in 2015, that megalomary thing that you did for the country, comes in the direction of, instead of combating precariousness, increasing precariousness. You have increased the precariousness, you have exponentially increased the precariousness and those who say it are the numbers. It is that I never invented anything, I always use numbers and, if we are to analyze the data of the Bipartite Evaluation Commission in the Ministry of Health, we have checked on the PREVPAP website, that you certainly also know - that there were 8516 expressions of interest from workers, namely nurses, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, health assistant technicians and more health professionals, who wanted to see their integration into the state, to whom you promised that they would be integrated and not. They didn't do it and the program failed, failed as the PSD has always said. There is another fact that also justifies the black spot here, the range that you created around the fight against precariousness, which has to do with the numbers of public employment, which came out last Monday this week, indicating that you, from the third quarter of 2020 to the fourth quarter of 2020, increased the contracts at the end of health professionals in the State by 20 %. You have increased the precariousness of health professionals by 20%! It is therefore necessary to ask the Government to explain what is happening in the fight against precariousness. It is happening precisely the opposite of what they say: precariousness is increasing exponentially. This is no longer to say that from 2019 to 2020 health professionals hired over time have grown by 87 %! Therefore, in a phase like this pandemic, there is still another mountain that is growing, which is a mountain that is not reflected in these numbers and that is the following: these nurses, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, who are now entering to cope with the pandemic are for the services that are dealing with the pandemic. And what services are they dealing with the pandemic? They are hospitals, which we classify as state public companies. However, public companies in the State have autonomy of management and, if they have autonomy of management, they must be part of their human resources management practice to decide whether or not they will, as an act of management, integrate these workers into their frameworks. It is not up to Parliament to determine which number of workers and which hospital A, B or C needs. It is also important that, in this act of managing the administrations of hospitals, the government itself can lead a manifestation of interest, a force, and explains that, politically, it has the strength to combat precariousness. The government hasn't done it until today. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. proposers of the initiatives and Mr. Members of the Socialist Party who have responsibility in the government, nurses, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, health assistant technicians, doctors have, indeed, the right and legitimacy to continue complaining, because you have not been able to express appreciation, to express respect and gratitude for what we owe them in the country's survival at this time of pandemic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u229	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to welcome the legislative initiatives of the PCP and the Left Block, which generally intend to reverse hiring links of professionals in the field of health, to which the draft resolution of the ENP was joined, which proposes the conversion into indefinite contracts of nurses with non-permanent links. in this debate we reiterate, once again, a very special thanks and greeting to all health professionals, regardless of the careers they are currently in, because they have played an essential role in combating this pandemic. Mr. President and Mr. Members, when we are called in this plenary to discuss career issues in the National Health Service, it is inevitable to recall how even before the pandemic we have dealt with the obligation of strengthening the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u232	Contrary to the decrease in transfers from the State budget to the National Health Service, operated between 2011 and 2015, in the amount of EUR 825 million, we continuously and sustainably transferred the amount of EUR 2080 million between 2016 and 2020. Between 2016 and 2019 we hired 15,500 public servants distributed by medical careers, nurses, superior health technicians, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, technical assistants, operational assistants, superior technicians. This is our respect, PSD Member. We are not running away from this debate, we are saying that, over this time, we have sought effective solutions to a problem that was known to us. And we say more: what would have been from the National Health Service, its professionals and even all of us if this reinforcement, between 2016 and 2019, hadn't started? What would it be about us and what would we be saying today? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a huge change, a huge growth in human resources and logistical resources and a huge growth in investment. We cannot now clear this journey, because it was done, and we cannot look at the National Health Service — I regret to say — as if we were in 2014. We also do not accept the criticism that we are stopped, that we do not seek solutions or that we do not respond to many of the problems we encounter in the National Health Service, whether these answers given in the form of human resources or in the form of logistical resources. We can even discuss it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whether or not the proposals submitted are appropriate from a legal point of view, for proposing that they be deprived of competitive procedure and for proposing retroactivity, but what we really cannot accept, and we do not accept, are the considerations of disability, inability or inability in our management of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, in this debate we cannot let all the work that has been done over the last few years in the area of careers go blank. It was the PS who was next to nursing professionals and senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians to review the careers that were long claimed. And we stopped? Oh, my God! Are we cross-armed? Oh, my God! Did we stop investment in the National Health Service at the level of human capital? Oh, my God! No, no, no. We continue to add, to improve, to dignify the National Health Service and its professionals. Otherwise, we see : in December 2019, with the National Health Service Response Improvement Plan, which adopts a framework for new recruitments up to 8400 health professionals in the years 2020 and 2021 ; in June 2020, with the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, which allowed for the initiation of the procedures for completing 2995 jobs, through the use of recruited workers, to deal with the pandemic ; and also following these resolutions of the Councils of Ministers, an exceptional regime for the establishment of legal employment relations in the field of health was approved, allowing the conversion of contracts concluded under the exceptional regime. Moreover, the Government, as approved in the State budget, is promoting the lifting of permanent needs that may still exist to recruit up to 4200 professionals this year. This discussion is absolutely necessary and allows us to clarify the message. The Government and the PS have never forgotten the National Health Service. The Government and the PS continue to ensure the improvement of the conditions of professionals and their professional valorisation and therefore, as we have already said, we are here to participate and contribute to a reflection that is transparent and that does not whitewash everything that has been done and what is being done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I conclude by saying that at the moment, we congratulate the Government on completing the process of raising and recruiting the 8400 health professionals, and it is clear that it is intended that those who are in full contract, right or uncertain, can, of course, be included. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u233	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I believe that this last speech by Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura is very indicative of what the Socialist Party's Government is about the National Health Service. The honourable Member has announced three times the same measure to say that they are doing so much, but it is so little that it has had to announce three times the same measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u235	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u236	This measure was also approved in December 2019 and is therefore prior to the pandemic. The Socialist Party Government seems to ignore that, in the meantime, there was a pandemic, with additional needs, which will still bring additional needs for the future. Because the 8000 professionals that announced, of 2019, and then the 2000 professionals of 2020, are the same. They're always the same professionals you're announcing, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and are referring to a 2019 strategy, pre-pandamy. Finally, Mr President, saying the following: Mrs Carla Barros did some of her intervention on precariousness, ending up praising her health professionals. It is very simple, Mrs. Member : if you want to combat the precariousness of these health professionals and be consistent with your words will vote in favour of the bill of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u237	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u238	I conclude, Mr. President. Otherwise, Mrs. Deputy, after all, her words are no more than rhetoric and, worse than that, a rhetoric designed to deceive health professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u239	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u240	Mr. President, it is curious to hear the PS speak of respect for nurses. The respect the Socialist Party has for nurses was expressed in hiring foreign nurses to come to Portugal during the pandemic. This is the respect that will remain for the history of the states of emergency in Portugal, or the respect of what Mrs. Bastonaria of the Order of Nurses has denounced... [[Protests of PS Members.]] They don't like the nurses' order desk, it's normal. It is the respect of what Mrs Bastonaria of the Order of Nurses has denounced, I said, that the Socialist Government has not authorized the passage of these professionals hired for indefinite time, leaving them thus in a precarious situation. To say that, in recent years, with the support of the parliamentary left, the Socialist Party has strengthened the National Health Service and its components is not to assume that the regularization plan has failed. But I am going to tell you more, Mrs Deputies, although I should not do so: the PSD and CDS government, led by Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho, has invested more in health than the Government of António Costa has done over the past few years. [[PS protests.]] That is the truth that it is difficult to hear, but it is the truth that history, facts and numbers demonstrate. Pedro Passos Coelho, the PSD and the CDS have invested more than you have invested in health that they say defend, and in the last four years, you have done no more than reduce it to the precariousness that we all know. They are facts, they are numbers and it is true that it is difficult for you to hear in this House. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u241	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very quickly I would like to say to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa that there is indeed a wide difference between the position of the CFP and that of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u243	Oh, come on, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u244	For the CDS, what matters is not the use of public resources to strengthen workers' rights and the SNS but rather to transfer them by hand kissed to private groups. For PCP it's different. We believe that public resources should not be given by hand to the private but, rather, that the rights of those who are in the public health service should be strengthened in order to strengthen the capacity of the National Health Service, which you so much want to deny. Mrs Carla Barros, from the PSD, sought a narrative referring to respect, gratitude, the issues of precariousness. Well, the mask, regarding the PSD, also dropped.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u245	The mask? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u246	When it comes to making the concrete choice between combating precariousness and defending workers' rights, the PSD is always on the other side, as it has always been. [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] He went to cut wages, went to lay off workers and, therefore, it is clear your position regarding the SNS and health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u247	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u248	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, I wanted to say that what is important at the moment is to ensure the capacity of the National Health Service, which is due to the valorization of its professionals, with rights, with careers, is not devaluing them. What the PS and the government did, regarding the careers of nurses and senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, were tremendous injustices and not an appreciation as should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u249	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u250	What is placed on the table is whether, in view of these needs, it will exempt all workers who will end the contract from 31 March 2021 or if, in fact, take measures to ensure that they are integrated, so that the SNS has the capacity to give the necessary answer. The CFP is very clear on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u251	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u252	What is needed is to strengthen the National Health Service. Thank you very much, Mr President, I apologize and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u253	To close the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u254	Mr President, I begin by making this small correction to Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura of the Socialist Party: The Greens did not join this agenda, The Greens were their authors. It's not that this has anything wrong, it's just to restore the truth. So if there's any joint, it's not on our side in this case. Mrs Carla Barros, we cannot compare the unrivalled. We cannot compare the fight against precariousness made by the PSD Government and the CDS with the fight that was made later. [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] No, because instruments and solutions were different. Your solutions and your instruments were to send people abroad or fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u255	So that's why you went to get the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u256	In fact, he even reminded a character who had a vision similar to that of the PSD, who said, « To end forest fires, trees are uprooted ». In fact, it is true that if trees are taken, there are no forest fires. So did the PSD, which fires to combat precariousness. [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] Today you have an opportunity to prove that you really want to fight precariousness. But the structural shortage of nurses, which, in fact, has already been identified by the OECD, is aggravated by the fact that there are many people continuing to go abroad. According to data from the Order of Nurses last year, 1230 professionals — that is, almost half of the 2700 graduates in 2020 — requested the declaration to carry out their profession abroad. According to the accounts, more than 20,000 Portuguese nurses will be working in other countries. As the Greens have been alerting, it is essential to promote adequate working conditions to ensure the establishment of these professionals in the National Health Service. Now, creating suitable working conditions to ensure that professionals are set up in the SNS will have to start with the nature of the work link, because maintaining work precariousness among these professionals is a more or less implicit invitation to leave the SNS and even to work abroad. That is why the Greens consider that professionals who respond to the permanent needs of services must correspond to an effective link. Precautionary is not just injustice, it is also a lie, and lies should not be part of labour relations. If it exists, it is necessary to remove it from labour relations, especially in the State, because otherwise it loses authority to require private people to do so. [[Congrats from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u257	The joint debate on draft resolution No 913 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) and Law Projects Nos 644 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 667 / XIV / 2. a (BE), we are now going to vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin with the assessment of the Vote Project No 456 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PS ) — Regret of the death of Amendio Silva. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed to their reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u258	Mrs. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Amendio da Conceição Silva, resistant antifascist and man of April, died on January 31, 2021, in Parede, Cascais, at 82 years of age. He was born in Lisbon on 21 April 1938. at the age of 20, he was arrested by the PIDE for participating in the revolt of the See. He took part in many resistance actions, highlighting Operation Vagô, in which a plane was diverted to launch pamphlets on Lisbon, southern margin and Faro, denouncing the regime and the neighbouring elections. Condemned with heavy penalties, he obtained political asylum in Brazil, where he remained until the Revolution of Cravos. Graduated in Law by the Federal University of Fluminense, she remained very close to Brazil, having committed herself in the last 20 years to the constant strengthening of cultural links between Portugal and Brazil. After 25 April, he was leader of the Socialist Party and member of his National Commission until 1984. He was head of office of the Secretary of State for Immigration ( 1974 / 1975 ), manager of the Intervencioned Sector of the Secretary of State for Fisheries ( 1977 / 1980 ), administrator of the Estaleiros Naval Parry & Son ( 1980 / 1984 ), adviser of the Embassy of Portugal in Brazil ( 1984 / 1992 ), secretary-general of the Luso-Brazilian Foundation ( 1992 / 2004 ), and since 2005, director of the cultural promoter Mares Navigatados. He was also a great developer of the thinking of Augustinho da Silva in Portugal, having been head of the Agostinho da Silva Association. As secretary-general of the Luso-Brazilian Foundation, he coordinated the research of this philosopher's espólio in Brazil, within the framework of the commemorations of his centenary. Amendio Silva was a member of the Tito de Morais Association, having been a great friend of the late President of the Assembly of the Republic and his family, active member of the Lusitano Gremio and combatant committed to freedom, equality and fraternity. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Amendio Silva, especially greeting its anti-fascist action and conveying its heartfelt condolences to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u259	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on the draft vote No 467 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PS and signed by Members of the CDS-PP and BE ) — Despite the death of Joel Pina. I would ask Mrs Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « João Manuel Pina, best known by Joel Pina, died last February 11th. I was 100 years old. He was born in the town of Rosmaninhal, in the county of Idanha-a-Nova, on February 17, 1920. He first met the fado, still in childhood, through radio programs, having been a self-taught in terms of musical formation, with a particular taste for the viola and guitar. In 1938, he settled in Lisbon, beginning as a spectator in the fado circuit. The musician Martinho d'Assumption invited him to be part of his Typical Guitars Quarter. It was Martin d'Assumption that advised him to dedicate himself to the bottom rape. In 1959, he entered the Raúl Nery Guitars Set. Besides the fado houses, he also played for the radio and made studio recordings. In 1961, he was employed as a public official in the Inspection of Economic Activities. during his 80 years of career, he recorded more than three hundred records and collaborated with renowned musicians, such as Amália Rodrigues, with whom he had been for about three decades, Beatriz da Conceição, Maria Teresa de Noronha, Ricardo Ribeiro, João Braga, Cristina Branco, Fontes Rocha and Fernando Farinha, Tony de Matos, Max, among many other artists. In addition to accompanying, Joel Pina has also been the author of melodies, including Drop Sheet, Madrugada and Lost Time. He left a great contribution to the fado, not only by the quality of his executions, his talent, the ability to innovate in artistic creation, as well as by being one of the main ones responsible for the introduction of low acoustic rape in that musical style. Being a reference to the fairy, he won the epithet as a teacher, as everyone considered it. He had a decisive participation in raising the fairy as an Immaterial Heritage of UNESCO. He was decorated in May 1992 with the Medal of Cultural Merit by the Portuguese State. In 2012 he received the Order Command of the Infante D. Henrique and, in the same year, the Gold Medal of the City of Lisbon. In September 2020, Joel Pina was honored at the Teatro São Luiz, in Lisbon, on the occasion of his centenary, with a concert attended by many musicians such as Mariza, Mísia, Lenita Gentil, Ana Sofia Varela, Camane, Joana Amendoeira, João Braga, Jorge Fernando, Katia Guerreiro, Pedro Moutinho and Rodrigo. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret over Joel Pina's death and addresses his most sympathetic condolences to his family and friends, paying tribute to a unique personality in the Portuguese cultural landscape. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft vote No 468 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the National Defence Commission and subscribed by PSD and PS Members )................................................................................................................... I ask Mrs Sofia Araújo to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On February 11, he died at Fernando Fonseca Hospital at the age of 80, victim of COVID-19, Lieutenant-Coronel Marcelino da Mata, one of the most decorated soldiers in the Portuguese Army. Born in Guinea-Bissau, on May 7, 1940, it was accidentally incorporated into the place of the brother, at the Military Instruction Center in Bologna, on January 3, 1960. After fulfilling the first incorporation, he volunteered and has integrated the special operations of Commands in the former Portuguese Guinea since its inception. He performed and participated in numerous operations between 1961 and 1974, always standing out for his individual courage and bravery and for never having been seriously injured in combat during the thirteen years of campaign service. The Lieutenant-Coronel Marcelino da Mata has obtained, throughout his career, a high number of praises and various decorations, of which the highest value and military significance are highlighted: Military Medal of 2. the War Cross Class, 26 July 1966 ; Military Medal of 1. the War Cross Class, May 9, 1967 ; Knight of the Old and Very noble Military Order of the Tower and Sword, Value, Loyalty and Merit, July 2, 1969 ; Military Medal of 1. the War Cross Class, 21 April 1971 ; Military Medal of 3. the War Cross Class, 9 June 1973 ; Military Medal of 1. a War Cross Class, 22 August 1973. In 1973, still 1. the Sergeant graduated in alferis, signed the telegram sent by about 400 fighters to contest the 1st Congress of the Ultramar Combatants, which would take place between 1 and 3 June of that year in Porto. After April 25, 1974, he was promoted to Major and graduated in Lieutenant-Coronel. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Lieutenant-Coronel Marcelino da Mata and presents to his family, the Commands Regiment, the Portuguese Army and the Armed Forces his condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u263	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ascense Simões, Eduardo Barroco de Melo Paulo Pisco and abstentions from Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and from PS Deputies Bruno Aragão, Claúdia Santos, Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha, Miguel Matos and Porfirio Silva.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u264	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u265	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u266	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u267	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira also asks for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u268	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote and, at the same time, to express all my solidarity with the anti-racist activist Mamadou Ba.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u269	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Eduardo Barroco de Melo, for what effect do you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u270	Mr President, it is also to inform me that I will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u271	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Ascenso Simões asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u272	In the same sense, Mr. President. It is to announce that I will make a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u273	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Lara Martinho asks for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u274	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made, a statement which we have already submitted to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u275	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Miguel Matos, for what effect do you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u276	It is to be announced that I will present a written statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Maria Begonha and Mrs Joana Sá Pereira on this last vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u277	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We also have a draft vote to appreciate, in this case of greeting. I ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read the Vote Project No. 469 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture and Communication and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Greetings to the dancer António Casalinho for winning the Lausanne Prize.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last February 6th, António Casalinho, a student of the International Conservatory of Ballet and Dance Annarella Sanchez, won the Lausanne Prize, winning the Award awarded by Oak Foundation and the Contemporary Interpretation Award « Minerva Kunststiftung », becoming the first Portuguese to achieve this fact. With this distinction, this 17-year-old dancer born in Leiria, has achieved the extraordinary result of having won four of the world's major dance contests. António Casalinho became known to the Portuguese public when, in 2017, at the age of 13, he won the talent program Got Talent Portugal, transmitted at RTP1. His commitment, dedication and aesthetic quality of his actions have been recognized successively in different parts of the world. This is an example of the premiums obtained. In 2014, in Paris, he won the Hope Award-Grand Prix as the best dancer in the competition ; in the USA, in 2016, he won the Youth America Grand Prix prize in the junior category ; he is distinguished with the Varna International Ballet Competition, in Bulgaria, in 2018, winning the gold medal in the junior category and the youngest and promising dancer award and the Grand Prix Varna ; in 2019, at the biggest dance contest in China, he wins the BIBCC Grand Prix – Beijing International Ballet and Chorreography Competition, among more than 150 participants. With this most recent distinction, Antonio Casalinho consolidates the entry of Portuguese names in the major international dance competitions. Its merit and potential, which has been turning into laudable facts, deserve the recognition of the Assembly of the Republic, by transposing not only itself but also Portugal beyond borders. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic greets and congratulates Antonio Casalinho for winning the Lausanne Prize and enhances the determining role that the International Conservatory of Ballet and Dance Annarella Sanchez and its teachers have played in the formation of professional dancers. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u279	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 980 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee for losses registered by the New Bank and charged to the Resolution Fund. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 758 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to strengthen the selective collection in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP and abstentions of the PSD, the CH and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We then proceed to the general vote of Bill No 639 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Reduction of packaging waste. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 792 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends mechanisms for reducing urban solid waste and a tariff policy for territorial cohesion and social justice. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PEV and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 632 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Monitoring of Urban Waste Management Systems and defining strategies for increasing urban waste recovery and recycling. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 633 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Reduction of superfluous packaging on commercial surfaces. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] The general vote of Bill No 529 / XIV / 2 is followed. a (PAN) — Promotes reduction of packaging waste and increased recycling rate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 238 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government implement and comply with measures to combat obesity. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u280	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u281	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u282	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u283	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 763 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and combat obesity. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u284	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u285	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u286	Mr President, it is also to announce the delivery of a written declaration of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u287	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We also vote in general on Resolution No 244 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to combat obesity. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This diploma also falls to 9. the Commission, in order to find a common text for these last three draft resolutions. Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 647 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Protection of the rights of cultural workers in a pandemic and economic crisis in 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u288	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u289	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u290	Mr President, it is just to ask whether, to speed up, we could not vote together the next three bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u291	Mr. João Oliveira, did you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u292	Mr President, we can vote together on the next two bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u293	All right. When there is no opposition, then we will vote together, in general, the Bills No. 663 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Creates extraordinary support for cultural equipment and the culture sector and 669 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary cultural and artistic support measures. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 670 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the protection of professionals in the culture sector in the context of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and PEV.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 647 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures to enhance professionals in the culture sector and to ensure that support for cultural professionals covers all workers in the areas of shows and events. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 853 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a green health route. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u294	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u295	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a written declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u296	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 903 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the strategic review of curricular programmes for the recovery of students from the constraints caused by COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the NAP, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and the ENP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 905 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Education for animal protection and welfare. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP and CH abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 646 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Create, exceptionally, deduction of values relating to the acquisition of computer equipment for students. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The general vote of Bill No. 668 / XIV / 2 is followed. a (NAP) — Ensures the deductibility, within IRS, of costs with the acquisition or repair of computers, amending the IRS Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the PEV.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 913 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Conversion into permanent contracts of nurses' contracts with precarious links in order to ensure the stability of the SNS. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 644 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Fight precarious health with the conversion of employment contracts to time indefinite or indefinite. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 667 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Final hiring of professionals of the National Health Service with precarious links. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 777 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — The creation of a fund to support youth associationism. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 852 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Creation of an extraordinary programme to support youth associivism. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] This diploma also falls to 8.The Commission. We also vote in general on Resolution Project No 887 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an extraordinary programme to support youth organisations. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] This diploma, like the previous two, falls to 8. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 811 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Strengthening of the family support component ( CAF) and extension of curricular enrichment activities ( AEC) to 2. the basic education cycle for students with special educational needs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, PEV and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 827 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-attached Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening and extension of the family support component ( CAF ) to the 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles and their adequacy to students with special educational needs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP and PEV abstentions.]] The vote on draft resolution No 832 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Extension of the family support component ( CAF ) and curriculum enrichment activities to students of the 2. o is 3. the basic education and inclusive education cycles. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 864 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Establishment of an integrated network of family support responses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, PEV and CH.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 801 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and PS, PS, CH and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u297	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u298	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u299	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u300	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Hugo Costa, have you asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u301	Yes, Mr President, it is also to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will deliver a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u302	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 752 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Incentives for the eradication of plastic waste at sea. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD and IL abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 796 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a (BE) — Recommends measures to eliminate causes and sources of waste in the marine environment. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS abstentions, PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We then generally vote on draft resolution No 928 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of actions promoting the reduction of waste in the marine environment. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP, PEV and IL abstentions.]] These last three draft resolutions are down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 882 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a programme to support the resumption and modernization of circus activity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PAN and IL abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 923 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government create a specific credit line for the film display sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and IL.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 862 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the reformulation of risk assessment forms for situations of domestic violence ensuring greater protection of victims. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 922 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — by amending risk assessment sheets for situations of domestic violence. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] These last two draft resolutions are down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 883 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, within the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, promote reflection on the adoption of effective mechanisms for combating money laundering and the phenomena of fraud, evasion and tax evasion and ensure the completion of the legislative process in the CBCR Directive. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u303	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u304	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u305	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u306	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 775 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government that it assign to the District Hospital of Santarém the name of Hospital Bernardo Santareno. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and CDS-PP, PAN and CH abstentions.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 814 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommendations for vaccination of all residents and professionals in residential establishments for the elderly ( ERPI) and 841 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government act on the social network to identify unlicensed residential structures so that its users and employees can be included in the COVID-19 vaccination process. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u307	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u308	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u309	Mr President, now that we have completed the vote, I think I was wrong. In the Resolution Project No 811 / XIV / 2. the, of the Left Block, the purpose of voting of the Liberal Initiative is in favour and I think that I have transmitted abstention, so I want to correct it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u310	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. I don't think it changes the result. Mrs. Members, the Secretary of Bureau Sofia Araújo will take note of an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u311	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Eastern Port County, Central Criminal Court of Penafiel — Judge 5, Case No. 296 / 18.1T9LOU, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs. Cristina Mendes da Silva ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u312	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Sofia Araújo, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u313	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I inform the House that they were present at today's plenary meeting, by video conference, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS, and Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-18.u314	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place on Thursday, 25 February, for 3 p.m. and there are several items on the agenda. The first point is the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration from 16 to 30 January 2021. In the second point, we will appreciate the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. On the third point, we will discuss the Bill No 72 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the framework law on public utility status. At the fourth point, we shall proceed to the joint debate of the Bill No 73 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Enables access to data by public entities for confirmation of access requirements to the APOIAR Programme and the Resolution Project No 983 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Enlargement of the APOIAR RENDAS programme. In the fifth point, without time allocated for discussion, there is motion for a resolution No 19 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the framework agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand, and Australia on the other, signed in Manila on 7 August 2017. In the sixth point, also without time allocated for discussion, there is draft resolution No 1011 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the work programme of the European Commission for 2021. Finally, there will be a regiment vote. It remains my wish to all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 45 minutes.]]
