ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The Assembly of the Republic shall start at 3. the Legislative Session of the XIV Legislative Session days after witnessing, with great sadness, the disappearance of the former President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio, a friend of many of us and a reference to Portuguese and Portuguese for the example that it was, and will continue to be, in the defense of democracy and the values of freedom, tolerance and respect for the other. A life of public service and service to the public cause is what we today, with longing, remember through this Evocative Session, in the presence of their relatives—Dear Maria José Rita, dear André, to whom, once again, I convey the manifestation of the most meaningful grief— and close friends, who are in the various galleries. on the agenda for today is the Evocative Session of the Former President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio. The much that has been said in recent days is still not enough to express the pain and emotion with which I saw a friend leave, with which I saw a fellow in the struggle for freedom and democracy, with whom I have learned so much in recent decades, in politics and out of it. One partner in respect for the other, for diversity, for the plurality of ideas and convictions; in the importance of dialogue, consensus, of bridge building as a way to overcome the many difficulties that our country still faces; in teaching, at the same time so simple and so full of meaning, that there are no indispensable Portuguese. Having arrived at this Evocative Session, the last tribute which the Assembly of the Republic pays to the former Head of State, to the former Member, to the politician and to the citizen, it is in the sense of duty that I transmit to his family and friends, in my name and on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, the gratitude of all Portuguese and all Portuguese who we represent here for the much that Jorge Sampaio has given us. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall immediately pass on to read the Vote Project No 668 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Jorge Ampaio. I am grateful for the contribution of all, because they have allowed the extended subscription of this initiative. The draft vote shall be as follows: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Jorge Sampaio. Unique figure of our democracy, which helped to establish and strengthen, Jorge Sampaio indeliblely marked Portugal's political, social and cultural life before and after April 25. It was an example of self-denial and courage, of conviction in humanist and democratic values, of relentless search for social justice, having as principle, in its own words, that ‘there are no indispensable Portuguese’. Jorge Sampaio was and will continue to be, therefore, not only a reference of the generation he lived with and fought with, but of all those who reveal themselves in democratic experience and in the values of freedom, tolerance and respect for the other. His sense of justice, his belief in the dignity of the human being, soon led Jorge Sampaio to political intervention and confrontation with the repressive regime then in force. As president of the Association of Students of the Faculty of Law of Lisbon and Secretary-General of the Inter-Associations Academias (RIA) Meeting, Jorge Sampaio took a prominent role in the student crisis of 1962, revealing characteristics that became a panagio of his future political attitude. Confident anti-fascist, having freedom as a requirement and democracy as an objective, Jorge Sampaio courageously took up the defense of numerous political prisoners in the plenary court of the dictatorship. in the political field, and despite knowing that his campaign was destined for failure, heeding the limitations imposed by the regime, Jorge Sampaio wanted to mark presence, involving himself directly in the 1969 electoral process, having been a candidate in the lists of the Democratic Opposition, by the CDE ( Democratic Election Commission ). After 25 April, he was one of the drivers of the Socialist Left Movement (MES ), which left, at the founding congress, to disagree with the party's orientation line, joining the Socialist Party in 1978 shortly thereafter. Parliament's defender, as a representative assembly of all Portuguese citizens, Jorge Sampaio took his place in the House of Democracy, having been elected deputy in the 1979 and re-elected legislatures in 1980, in 1985, in 1987 and 1991, also being leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. His concern for human rights led to his designation by the Assembly of the Republic to the European Commission on Human Rights in the Council of Europe, where he played a very active role. The election for President of the City Council of Lisbon in 1989 is another proof of its enormous capacity to build bridges and achieve convergences until then never achieved. He took an individual candidacy, independent of any political party, for the President of the Republic, setting this other example of his rare political intuition. The exercise of its two mandates as President of the Republic, in particular the response given to the difficult and demanding situations with which it was faced, brought a new understanding and a new look at the presidential powers. Given particular attention to trends in each environment, these mandates were also marked by the momentum given to a new centrality of public policies, especially in the economic and social fields, in the development of the country and in the fight against poverty and inequality. After completing his second term as President of the Republic, Jorge Sampaio did not abandon active life from a political point of view. His civic sense and his willingness to honour the duty of solidarity committed to each citizen encourage him to accept, with humility and pride, his appointment as Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for the Fight against Tuberculosis and as High Representative of the United Nations for the Alliance of Civilizations. Solidarity as duty is once again the reason that Jorge Sampaio founded the Global Platform for Academic Assistance to Syrian Students. Political of great intellectual nail, man of the left by conviction, democratic of Europeanist and multilateralist vocation, Jorge Sampaio always knew how to prestigious and defend Portugal's position in the world, which has given him the recognition and respect of all political quadrants, both internally and internationally. by the values he defended, by the full form and committed as he performed the functions for which he was elected or designated, Jorge Sampaio represented everything that is best and most demanding in politics. by pointing out the loss of this huge human being, who was one of the best servants of the public cause and of his generation, it is fair to acknowledge the gratitude that is due him. Thank you, Jorge Sampaio! The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Jorge Sampaio, a fundamental figure of contemporary Portugal, giving him fair tribute and conveying to his family, especially to his wife, Maria José Rita, and children, Vera and André, to his friends and the Socialist Party the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the speeches of the different sides and parties. Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, relatives of President Jorge Sampaio : Jorge Sampaio was much more than a man, he was and is an example to follow, an example of struggle and integrity, dedication to the public cause and society, of someone who gave much more than he could ever have received. As a lawyer, Jorge Sampaio gave voice to political prisoners and anti-fascist activists; as a politician, he defended minorities and freedom; as a person, he showed such qualities as humility and courage. Today, I thank you for all that you have given to the public cause, for your work for the independence of East Timor, for not being indifferent to the suffering of the Syrian population, for the struggle for equality, for integration, for the freedom of all of us, far beyond the borders. We have not lost just one President of the Republic, we have lost a good man, as so often is nicknamed, which is so lacking today. I'm not going to stretch anymore. I address my last words to the family, lamenting their loss, which is also a loss to all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u3	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u4	Mr President, I extend my condolences to the entire family, friends and colleagues of Jorge Sampaio. I need to start by saying that we learn from Jorge Sampaio to expose vulnerability as a political proposal for change, combative force and authenticity. For Jorge Sampaio, everyone took place in Portugal, regardless of their origins and who they might be. Vulnerability, empathy and compassion — characteristics generally associated with women, but which have the gift of magnifying a man and, above all, of magnifying a politician. He has taught us that there is nothing to be done in life and politics without affection. This is so different from what's been happening lately! Today we are not enough to pay tribute to the life and legacy of Jorge Sampaio, but we must continue to give his spirit of kindness and openness to all and to all who are in our society. Hello, President Jorge Sampaio!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u5	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Family and Friends of President Jorge Sampaio present in the galleries: One of the best tributes I can pay to President Jorge Sampaio is to be loyally frontal, as he has been so often during his life, in these words I speak from here. And it is not to fall into temptation, so often in evocations and choosing burials, to yield to the hyperbole or idealization of who has departed, often leaving a barrier of insincerity—if not of hypocrisy—to whom you hear or read such words. I therefore begin to recognize, without subterfuges and without surprise to anyone, that I have almost always disagreed with the political positions that Jorge Sampaio took in his political life after 25 April. His socialist view of society is not our liberal view of the same society and there is no doubt about it. But, in its human dimension, Jorge Sampaio displayed traces worthy of registration and, above all, worthy of being an example for all of us. These are the traits I would like to highlight here. Jorge Sampaio was, of course, a freedom fighter during the dictatorship: this supreme value for any liberal. Few will cease to admire the intransigent defense that has made of students and oppositionists to the New State, at a time when this required not only character strength but courage. It is exactly this courage the second trace of Jorge Sampaio that I want to highlight. Before and after 25 April, Sampaio displayed a fidelity to his convictions, a willingness to travel paths that translate into a form of political courage which, even those who did not follow him politically, could not fail to recognize. Jorge Sampaio was also a man of great sensitivity to various aspects of the human condition, even those who had little to do with daily politics, never trying to show his simpler and more human side. It was an early example in Portugal of how political figures do not have to conform to a pattern or to a person. Finally, Jorge Sampaio had a global view of the world and Portugal in that world, and this, I am convinced, contributed a great deal to his performance as President of the Republic and to the relevant positions he held after leaving the highest judiciary of the state. These are the traits that I want to highlight in Jorge Sampaio: the struggle for freedom, courage, simplicity and the global vision that he had of the world. All the qualities that must inspire us and which continue to be lacking in Portugal today, in particular among those who exercise special responsibility. in the end, what matters most is the human dimension of life that has left us, the pain of whoever weeps it and the example that everyone leaves. More than the loss to the country, we associate ourselves with the loss that family and close friends are feeling. To all of them I renew from here, in my personal name and on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, the expression of our most sincere condolences.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u7	Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, family and friends of Dr. Jorge Sampaio here present: We are here today to honor an old President of the Republic, for a few years the face of all of us Portuguese. As such, and so on, I bow before his memory. The Third Republic lost one of its stalls, the Socialist Party one of its senators and the family one of itss. to the Socialist Party, of course, but especially to the family, as it is natural, I want to leave here, in my name and on behalf of my party, a word of solidarity for this loss. The political ideas that Dr. Jorge Sampaio has always profiled were in our antipodes. The most relevant decisions that he took as the first figure of the State, decisions that had crucial influence in the years that so far followed, would always have our firm, absolute, total and frontal opposition. But it would be unworthy of us and Dr. Jorge Sampaio not to leave this here very clear. And I stress that it would also be unworthy of Dr. Jorge Sampaio, because only for whom nothing has been reported does unanimity — genuine unanimity — be recorded — in the words that are always said on these occasions. Because this is the case, to underline these differences that separated us represents a testimony of respect for an opponent who departs. Not doing so would be an unbearable manifestation of contempt, it would be transforming an adversary into an enemy. And in politics, me and my party, at least on our side, we have opponents, we don't have enemies. What's the difference between one thing and the other? There is an essential difference, and this is this: it is the respect or lack of it for the basic humanity of the one who opposes us. We both share the same humanity and that is what really counts. But it is not a judgment on Dr. Jorge Sampaio's political life that we find today and here in question. What is at stake today and here is the life of someone who, regardless of what we may think about his course, has actually taken a course. And there are not many who have truly had it and who can be proud of it. The political ideas that guided this journey were not ours. But it was yours, and that's enough. May he rest in peace!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u9	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We recall today, in plenary session, Dr. Jorge Sampaio. in this circumstance, the first words that the Green Party intends to leave are intended to express the deepest and most sincere condolences, particularly to the family of Dr. Jorge Sampaio and the Socialist Party. Life has these things, because life is like that. Not even the people who help to build our history, not even the men who spend their lives building bridges can escape the inevitable definitive departure of our life. A match that doesn't have time, it's true, but it always ends up coming. It's always enough. Always, inevitable and irremediably. Because there are no bridges to prevent the arrival of the departure. This is the human condition. We don't have another one. And the loss of a close person is always terrible, very painful, of absolutely incalculable pain, because we humans are not endowed with natural ability to face the threat of death. We're human, we're human. It is therefore important, first of all, to express the greatest sense of respect for the feeling of loss, from the very beginning of your closest family and friends, but also of all those who feel their death as a personal or collective loss. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Dr. Jorge Sampaio's life was undoubtedly crossed by a strong and active political intervention, both before and after the Revolution of Cravos. A man who marked the history of our country not only by the relevant positions he held after the April Revolution, but also by his contribution in the fight against the fascist regime. As mentioned in the vote of regret, presented by Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, to which the Parliamentary Group of the Ecological Party « The Greens » is also associated, « Their sense of justice, their belief in the dignity of the human being, soon led Jorge Sampaio to political intervention and to the confrontation with the repressive regime then in force ». from this dark time, The Greens highlight their involvement in the student crisis of 1962, as student and association leader, but also their direct participation in the 1969 electoral process, as candidate in the lists of the Democratic Electoral Commission. Finally, but no less important, The Greens highlight the courage of the anti-fascist Jorge Sampaio by taking up the defense in the plenary courts of many other anti-fascists, political prisoners of the dictatorship, who opposed and fought with singular determination against the fascist regime. One and the other, fighters in an absolutely unequal fight. After the Revolution of Cravos, Jorge Sampaio continued to engage in the public case, exercising various and high political responsibilities, particularly as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, which he also prestigious, Leader of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, President of the City Council of Lisbon, President of the Republic. It has also gained strength to engage in a humanitarian case, as President of the Global Platform for Syrian Students, a platform of which it has also been a founder. The Greens Ecological Party, an integral part of the coalition « By Lisbon », worked directly with Jorge Sampaio in this authority and in 1996 the Greens supported his candidacy for the Presidency of the Republic. These facts show that, despite the different political positions, which have always been assumed, the Greens Ecological Party recognized in Jorge Sampaio, at certain times and in certain circumstances, the role that is absolutely relevant to the political responses that are required. Personally, it was in the late 1980s that I had the privilege of getting to know more closely, during the construction process of the coalition « By Lisbon». from that time, I remember the pragmatic man who was able to understand the importance of the necessary convergence to the practice of new policies for a new Lisbon, open to all and to all, a new city where together we did extraordinary work. We then crossed back in 1996 when the Greens supported their candidacy for the Presidency of the Republic. I also had the privilege of accompanying Jorge Sampaio, then President of the Republic, on the State Visit to Canada, in 2001. A journey that I retain in memory the caring and enthusiastic way in which the Portuguese emigrated to Canada received and welcomed the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio. It was exactly these moments shared with Dr. Jorge Sampaio that helped me build the image I have today. A politician, a humanist statesman, sensitive, vertical, courageous, simple and empty. A man who could hear and retain what he heard. A person sensitive to environmental problems and concerned with urban pressure in Lisbon and on the coast. A Democrat concerned about the health of democracy. A frontal, natural man who has exaggerated formalities or protocols. But Jorge Sampaio, in the same way as he was a direct and determined person, was a man who did not hide his emotions. It is also with emotion, therefore, that the Greens Ecologist Party deeply regrets the death of Jorge Sampaio. in these late hours, lived and felt, especially by the closest ones, we remain, in this Evocative Session, to reaffirm, together with their relatives and the Socialist Party, the most significant concern for the disappearance of the committed citizen and prominent political leader, Dr. Jorge Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u11	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, family and friends of President Jorge Sampaio here present: I would like, on behalf of the PAN, to address our heartfelt condolences to all and to all who feel this loss. Portugal was poorer with Jorge Sampaio's departure. A man who, throughout his public life, stood up to people's hope and knew how to corporate the most essential values of the democratic rule of law. The differences that the NAP has in relation to its position in the Tauromachia are known. But today, in this tribute, we will recall from then on everything that unites us. Speaking in Jorge Sampaio is first of all speaking in the intransigent defense of freedom. A defense in the context of the long night of an oppressive dictatorship, in which many were silent, but not Sampaio! As an associative leader, he didn't shut up. He was there when it was necessary to defend freedom of expression and the right to free association, in what would give rise to the academic crisis of 1962 and which ended up costing him imprisonment in Caxias. Sampaio was not afraid to be on the right side of history and, from the beginning of his career, defended those persecuted in the dictatorship before the plenary tribunal, which qualified as the most expensive sarcasm that could be thrown into the face of those who believed in a rule of law. Jorge Sampaio did not fear to use the limited means of participation that the dictatorship recognized him by writing, including in Time and Mode and Seara Nova, and was still a candidate on the lists of the Democratic Electoral Commission in 1969. As President of the Republic, Sampaio did not hesitate to warn of the need for a duty of memory, so that the dictatorship does not repeat itself, visiting several times the Forte de Peniche, the former prison, and being the first Head of State — and so far the only one — to participate in a tribute to the political prisoners of Tarrafal. To speak in Jorge Sampaio is to speak in democracy. He was an committed builder of the democratic regime, born on 25 April, which he called « the feast of an agreed dream». Marked by a political intervention of human face, he heard, based on honesty and, for the sake of collective well-being, he was able to build bridges between different fields. He has held political positions guided by the highest values of humanism and transparency. To speak in Jorge Sampaio is to speak in social justice and in the fight against exclusion, traces, indeed, patents in the launch, as President of the City Council of Lisbon, of the foundations of the urban renewal program of the Casal Ventoso neighborhood, which at the time had 500 people living in conditions of total indignity. As President of the Republic, he focused more and more on investing in social policies rather than focusing on the deficit, and he highlighted himself in his fight against the poverty circuit caused by tuberculosis, as a special envoy of the UN Secretary-General ( United Nations ). Speaking in Jorge Sampaio is also about someone who, as President of the City Council of Lisbon, took important steps to combat the pollution on the Roof and significantly increase the green spaces in the city. Jorge Sampaio is also synonymous with solidarity and defence of human rights, sometimes with gestures as simple as those that allowed Oriana and Andreia Belchior, two girls from Baião, to continue their studies, but also in their action to defend the cause of East Timor's independence. This, without forgetting its struggle for conciliation between Muslim and Western societies, as the UN High Representative for the Alliance of Civilizations, having a proactive position to defend the right to education of Syrian migrants, as founder of the Global Platform for Syrian Students, whose work was hailed, in this House, unanimously, in 2019, and which, in fact, since 2014 has ensured more than 650 scholarships per year and allowed 135 Syrian fellows to complete undergraduates, masters or doctorals. Jorge Sampaio's life made all the difference and can be summed up by the final part of Robert Frost's poem The Road Not Taken : « Breathing, I will be telling you, from here to a thousand years, what happened: two roads bifurcated and I the least stepped took as mine, and the difference is all there. » The best tribute that we can pay to Jorge Sampaio is to make a commitment to, with the same commitment and concern, to follow the less footing path. It was the humanist values that guided their lives and left us as a legacy. For this reason, in defense of this legacy and these values, the NAP will present an initiative to promote one of its last projects, recommending to the Government that all higher education institutions in Portugal can work together at the YES Fund (Youth Education Solidarity Fund ), with the objective that Sampaio also sought. We concluded by recalling what was known as their last public intervention on the current situation in Afghanistan: « Solidarity is not optional, but a duty».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u13	I call on the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Ms. Maria José Rita, relatives and friends of Jorge Sampaio : First of all, I would like to tell you that this is an Evocative Session and, in this sense, it is a tribute to Jorge Sampaio. at this time of dismay, the first word, the most important word I want to express on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, is « respect ». We honor an old President of the Republic, a figure who represented all Portuguese, who was guaranteed national unity and whose memory deserves everyone's recognition. But as far as we are concerned, we also pay tribute to a figure that we have always dealt with in democracy as a political opponent. On this, two brief notes, the first of which to mention that the very widespread idea in these days of the consensual, almost unanimous nature of all the political action of Jorge Sampaio may even be very Portuguese, but it is not very strict and, in good truth, does not do justice to Jorge Sampaio, and to his course, not to ourselves, while his opponents. In fact, those who have been appointed, by their allies, as two of their most striking moments have at the time counted our firm opposition. This was the case when he created the ongoing alliance with the CFP that led him to the conquest of the Chamber of Lisbon and, above all, that was when in 2004 he dissolved Parliament, interrupting the course of a legitimate government, with parliamentary support, a controversial decision, for the most part, knowing, as we know today, what followed him. in these and other times, we have naturally been in opposite fields, but if democracy is made of confrontation, difficult decisions, sometimes hard debates, this does not prevent respect, appreciation and even the admiration we may have for our opponents and their qualities. This is certainly the case with Jorge Sampaio. Jorge Sampaio's political action was always coherent, as a left-wing, card socialist and convictionist, and was, in my opinion, the most important figure of the democratic left, after Mário Soares. And because the ideas have authors, I remember that it was precisely Mário Soares and also Diogo Freitas do Amaral who heard the phrase: "in democracy, there are no enemies, but only opponents". In fact, respect! I respect, of course, the young and courageous opponent who, during the New State, was a lawyer and defender of many political prisoners, by the student leader in the, also my, Academic Association of the Faculty of Law of Lisbon. I sincerely appreciate your manner of being, always cordial, correct and gentle. Jorge Sampaio was able to give a word of encouragement to a political opponent, at a more difficult time for this, in the face of a failure. I was a witness to that, he marked me and I won't forget it. Admiration for his elevation in political discourse, for the serious and dignified way he represented Portugal, being, at the same time, institutional and emotional, moving and moving those who accompanied him, for example, in Canada, when he contacted Portuguese living far from the country. I admire your love for Portugal and your dedication to the Portuguese people, your commitment to the cause of Timor, your sense of state in the transition of Macau — and if sometimes it seemed to dramatize, it would certainly be the result of your genuine concern — because of your commitment, even though sometimes utopian, in the defence of human rights and how you have engaged in the cause of refugees. I end with a word I naturally want to address in particular to your family, from then on to your widow, Dr. Maria José Rita, whose role is so important and so important, alongside President Jorge Sampaio, I also had the opportunity to witness, and to your family and friends. I leave you with a sincere word of great esteem that President Jorge Sampaio and his legacy deserve us. I also want to address a word of sincere condolences to your always party, the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the legacy of Jorge Sampaio, for everyone, especially for the new generations, would stress how particularly important, in addition to its integrity, the high and educated form as it did politics. at a time when the radicalization between the opposite fields is growing and the insult in politics is going trivializing, it is very important that we know how to protect and caress this legacy of elevation in disagreement and education in speech. We are aware that this evocation and this tribute to Jorge Sampaio are also a tribute to democracy itself. It is democracy that we celebrate here today, remembering Jorge Sampaio. Well, President Jorge Sampaio!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u15	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : at the time when the Assembly of the Republic formally signs the death of Dr. Jorge Sampaio, I want to begin, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, by extending condolences to your family, in particular to your wife and children, and also to the PS Parliamentary Group. Dr. Jorge Sampaio left the country with the memory of a relevant personality of the national political life of recent decades, having assumed high political responsibilities, including those of the PS Secretary-General, and also institutional, in particular as President of the City Council of Lisbon, Member of the Assembly of the Republic and leader of its parliamentary group, member of the Government during the provisional governments, President of the Republic and member of the Council of State. Jorge Sampaio is also recognized — and we want here to underline him — his democratic journey of resistance and struggle against fascism. The role played in the defense of numerous anti-fascists in the plenary courts during the dictatorship is highlighted, a role taken with courage and genuine dedication. One of the resistant anti-fascists defended by Jorge Sampaio in those circumstances reminded me, days ago, that they both met in their travel to Peniche prison, a fact that becomes remarkable, since it was rare that lawyers moved to political prisons to contact the resistant anti-fascists they represented. It is also noted that, as President of the Republic, Jorge Sampaio visited Peniche's former prison and there paid tribute to all political prisoners. Jorge Sampaio was also a man engaged in the dialogue of Democrats and democratic forces before and after 25 April. It highlights its participation in the 1962 academic crisis and democratic intervention in the 1969 electoral farce, integrating the CDE lists, situations in which it was aware of the allies of communists and other Democrats. The citizen committed to defending humanist and democratic values, Jorge Sampaio leaves a relevant testimony to the universal sense of this struggle in the fights that he waged before 25 April, for democracy and freedom in Portugal, but also in his intervention in defense of Timor-Leste's independence and self-determination or in defense of refugees. Recalling it in all these circumstances, the CFP recalls a relevant personality of national political life, whose course has often crossed with the course of those who, in various circumstances, struggled to free themselves from dictatorship and oppression and to build a future of freedom, democracy, peace, progress and better living conditions. Not forgetting the divergences that History has already directed itself to point out in the face of the position taken by Dr. Jorge Sampaio in various moments of his journey, the PCP wants today, above all, to point out, valuing, valuing, the convergences with which it was possible to build, for the benefit of the workers and the people who benefited from them. We therefore express our condolences to all those who suffer from their loss.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u17	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u18	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The Block of the Left manifests, the Socialist Party and the family of Jorge Sampaio, the deep regret for his death. It is not, however, his death that we want to address today, but rather the life of those who have devoted themselves entirely to the great public causes. We remember the student who was president of the Association of Students of the School of Law of Lisbon and the Secretary-General of the Inter-Academic Meetings, the RIA, and who played a major role in the student crisis of 1962 and in the challenge to the regime. We value the anti-fascist lawyer, who stood out in the defense of political prisoners in the Lisbon plenary court during the dictatorship, and how his close contact with political prisoners was useful in preparing the revolution, allowing the information that resulted in a detailed sketch of the Caxias prison that was handed over to Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho. We recognize the commitment of those who took part in the political struggle, participated in the party life and always assumed a position in the major debates of the construction of democracy. We know how it was possible to dialogue on the left, creating bridges, cultivating respect and overcoming distrust. Lisbon was the stage of this new Portuguese political life and witnessed what it meant in improving the lives of populations in fundamental matters, such as the right to housing in the eradication of the barracks. With Jorge Sampaio we were excited and made the independence of Timor-Leste a reason for national mobilization. And we were great in the world to defend the liberation of this brother-people. But it was not the only example he helped us to give to the world. It was also with its commitment that Portugal became an international reference in drug policy, assuming the failure of prohibitionism and taking the fundamental step in decriminalizing consumption. So history was made and another step of progress was made, which he continued, along with Kofi Annan and other former Heads of State, as one of the promoters of the Global Drug Policy Commission. He showed us how he had a voice against the war and rejected military intervention in Iraq. We know today how he had and how we were right to avoid this military escalation and, in particular, the rejection of the narrative of a supposed war of civilizations, which he denied, and very well. He was involved in building dialogues between cultures, as High Representative for the Alliance of Civilizations or, more recently, in the Global Platform for Syrian Students. These are examples and notes of exemplary life, of a way of making politics with ethics and elevation, of those who know that the final objective of political participation is the common good and that it is not possible to achieve this end without a deep respect for the other, for everyone else. This respect, this empathy, are values that mark it and have marked us all. from this example, this life, this contribution, the Republic and democracy say: thank you, Jorge Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u19	Mr Fernando Negrão, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u20	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Member of the Government, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today recalls the memory of President Jorge Sampaio, who recently left us in this House for five term. Today, Jorge Sampaio, Jorge Sampaio autarca, Jorge Sampaio autarca, Jorge Sampaio President of the Republic, Jorge Sampaio a humanist and statesman, but, above all, Jorge Sampaio, the common citizen who never ceased to be. And I speak in the common citizen, because it was only what he always wanted to be, assuming, with all nature and humility, all the functions of the highest responsibility he has exercised. This example, of the greatest politician who has never forgotten his status as a common citizen, is a heritage that should serve as an example for all those in life who assume high responsibility, whether in politics, where it is a requirement, or in any other area of society. He has been a lawyer in law and a professional lawyer since very early on, a strong defender of the public cause, freedom and democracy. I highlight the civic sense that involved in all its interventions and actions and that was part of its nature, as it clearly was seen and felt in its fight to support refugees, almost until the last day of its huge life. May this example of civic sense last and last in all and, above all, in younger generations as the greatest reason for everything we do and will do. We owe it the persistent political action to oppose and combat dictatorship. We owe it, too, to him, so Portugal now living in democracy and freedom. It was extremely important to play the role that he played in the years of the Revolution, in the dialogue with the moderate wing of the MFA ( Armed Forces Movement ), as an asset supporting the positions of the so-called "Group of the Nine", where Colonel Melo Antunes, his friend, stood out. It was a citizen of the world and an open mind, making a decisive contribution to union, cooperation and diplomacy. As a member of the Committee on Human Rights in the Council of Europe, he defended fundamental rights in an exemplary manner and contributed to the faithful implementation of the principles contained in the European Convention on Human Rights. He was influential and elected the name of overseas Portugal, as co-chair of the African Committee of the Socialist International, in the Presidency of the Union of Portuguese-speaking Capital Cities, as Vice-President of the Union of Ibero-American Capital Cities, as President of the Eurocity Movement and of the World Federation of United Nations Cities. In 1996, when he was elected President of the Republic he began two mandates which, in a consensual way, were considered of great dignity and of great diplomatic sense, of proximity and of free commitment to the Portuguese people. Stressing the high institutional sense, which has been revealed, for example, as Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, where everything has been done to preserve their integrity, as well as the continuation of their recognition and importance for the country's external defence, as well as for the execution of missions to support the people in extreme situations, sometimes even against some voices of their political area. Jorge Sampaio was a man on the left, with strong convictions, who was always faithful in his political action, never failing to have a decisive role in the pursuit of the values and principles he defended and thus conquering his unique, personal and intransmissible place. We couldn't always share the same view. We haven't always agreed on the best way. Sometimes we've had deep differences. But what remains of the institutional relationship with President Jorge Sampaio is a healthy difference in thought and action, guided by respect, esteem and mutual political consideration. Jorge Sampaio left us, in his way of living and exercising political life, a manual of good practices, which cannot be ignored day by day and which translates into fulfilling the word, in frontality and in truth, in commitment, seriousness, righteousness and elegance of the treatment. We all have an obligation here, too, to evoke Jorge Sampaio as a man of truth, which George Orwell so well defined as a revolution in a time of universal deception. And so much so that we lack this example of truth, commitment and seriousness. We know how to honor him. And in the cases of Jorge Sampaio, stands out as the main driving force in the liberation of Timor. The Portuguese gave their hands to a people physically so distant, but historically and culturally so close. And they fought for the rights of the Timorese as if they were theirs, in a loving and fraternal embrace. Timor-Leste was born from the joint effort of many people who defended the victory of democracy and freedom. Jorge Sampaio was one of the great ambassadors of this fight and one of the first to witness the birth of free Timor. In such a way that it is ours today and it is from the Timorese. We share it with him, admiration and gratitude. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In my name and on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, we address to Jorge Sampaio's family and friends our deep condolences. We are proud to have President Sampaio in the defence of Portugal and Portuguese. It is true that we deserve respect for its legacy and its political heritage in our dedication to the public cause. Jorge Sampaio honored the country and honored us all, because, first of all, he never wanted anything else that would not continue to be a common citizen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u21	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Cara Maria José Rita, Cara Vera, Caro André Sampaio, relatives and friends of Jorge Sampaio : We look at Jorge Sampaio and see his serene but determined concern that made him an extraordinary man in the civic and political plane. It was this concern that gave him energy to dare and dream, that gave him intellectual vitality, willingness to act, curiosity about the new, indignation at injustice. It was the serenity that accompanied this concern that predicted it in the analysis, prudentness in the judgments, ability to make alliances, to get commitments, to build consensus, to throw bridges. His life was an active militancy for freedom, democracy and human rights. due to its ethical attitude, due to its intellectual requirement, due to its political seriousness, due to its fidelity to causes, ideals and principles, Jorge Sampaio was a unique, exemplary and inspiring personality in democratic, modern and cosmopolitan Portugal, which we were building after the Revolution of 25 April. in the democratic confrontation, he always assumed the qualities and virtues of his style — elegance, modesty, cordiality and elevation. His example dignified politics, made it deeper and more consequent, inspired several generations of young people, including me and led me to join the Socialist Party. It was the serene concern that led him to choose the hard causes since very young and to reject always, but always, the easiest way. With courage in the student struggle, without fear of personal harm, heroically manifested the firm, clear and combative repudiation to an anachronistic dictatorship and the desire to fight for a free, democratic and open Portugal, an exaltant fight against fear and conformism, a bold struggle against poverty, the lack of horizons and opportunities, a fight for freedom, for the dignity of all, for social justice, for the end of the isolation of Portugal. As a lawyer, he took on the intransigent and courageous defense of political prisoners and the fight for human rights. in it, the utopia, with its radical pulse, was always tempered by a natural moderation and a realism of who always had the feet well based on the earth. Therefore, his serene concern led him, with his group, to integrate the PS, enriching him with new perspectives, new ideas and new methods. It was in the PS that he found a broad and fertile land and also fellow fighters to put into practice his idealism and his daily struggle for a fairer and more decent world. As a Member, I have always been able to exercise the daily commitment of the debate of ideas, in respect for plurality and considering the divergence not as an evil, but as an enrichment of public life. At the same time — and at the same time — we have the pride and humility of, as Parliamentary leader of this bench, meeting me among those who have succeeded him, seeking to honor his legacy, in the way these functions were carried out that one day were his: dignifying the Assembly of the Republic, increasing the confidence of citizens in democratic institutions and constantly improving our democracy — Jorge Sampaio was the antithesis of populism. Jorge Sampaio's serene concern impressed on the democratic local power. for the first time, a national leader of a large party took the candidacy to a municipal chamber. Sampaio put into action a modern and cosmopolitan vision and a long-term strategy for the city of Lisbon, which still remains in the formula « Lisbon, Atlantic capital of Europe ». It was this strategy, this vision and this ambition that began to make Lisbon what it became. That was the « yesterday» which became our « today ». With Lisbon European Capital of Culture, with the realization of Expo 98, encouraged itself, Lisbon was designed in the world. But also an example of how the democratic local power must be close to people's real problems, was their housing policy, thus beginning the eradication of the barracks in the city of Lisbon. Jorge Sampaio was also, with his serene but determined concern, able to dignify the role of President of the Republic without ever being accommodated, dazzled or satisfied. In view of the main objectives of Portugal and the real problems of the Portuguese, committed to giving the country a presence in the world, with the conviction that a country such as Portugal may even be relevant in international diplomacy, of what it has done at the international level, let us highlight and underline its valuable and untiring action to defend the cause of Timor-Leste and the Timorese, which is now exalted by Timor. Another important framework of its mandates was the serene and programmed transfer from Macao to the People's Republic of China. Jorge Sampaio has always demonstrated a position of great intelligence in affirming his disagreement with Iraq's invasion, decided at the Lages Summit, maintaining Portugal's autonomy and defending our permanent interests. It was with his serene but determined concern that he firmly fought our endemic weaknesses: early school dropout, that the history of the twin sisters in Baião became a symbol and made school. He faced the problem of drug addiction without taboos and without prejudice and gave Portugal a role of great relevance in this area and an example for the world. A President who rejected a socially unequal country, who fought for economic development and social progress at the same time. For Sampaio, a modern Portugal is the one where the creation of wealth is a condition for its fair distribution. He even proved that the motto « One for All» of his campaign was not just a slogan but, yes, his way of being in politics. It has always maintained its concern in the fight against tuberculosis or as High Representative in the Alliance for Civilizations Dialogue, the United Nations, or in the Creation of the Platform for Syrian Students, or also in the creation of the Group of Arraiolos. Sampaio was the same as himself, always serving those who need it most. That was the private and public portrait that, at the touching moment of his farewell, his children made him, and in this portrait we all recognize him. In 2019, in the tribute that the PS gave it, with the moving voice stated: « Even in the face of adversity, never, never give up! Do not keep on seeking. ” This statement is also an appeal, a challenge and accountability to all of us. We do not forget your last challenge to keep up with our responsibilities and respond to the emergence of Afghan refugees, because solidarity is not optional, it is a duty. And the best way to honor his memory is to fulfill this humanitarian appeal, continuing his way and his struggle. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the family of Jorge Sampaio, Portugal returns, at this sad hour when we say goodbye, the tears that Jorge Sampaio so often shared with the Portuguese, showing the authenticity of his emotion, either in the face of the moral ideals that mobilize us, or in the face of the fragility of our condition, which we are being questioned. The tears that are ours today cry the loss of a greater figure of our democracy and a socialist who has always been guided by the causes of the future. It is an immense honor to be a militant of the party that Jorge Sampaio chose and that he was Secretary-General. It is an immense honor to be Members of this bench, which has led. The Socialist Party bench thanks everything Sampaio has given Portugal and addresses to his family his deepest condolences. All the time, President Jorge Sampaio!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u23	We now proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 668 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, and non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Jorge Sampaio, who has already been read by myself. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the vote that we have just taken, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Then came the exhibition of an evocative film of Jorge Sampaio's public and political life and was heard an excerpt from his speech delivered in the Assembly of the Republic at the time of the taking up of office as President of the Republic in 1996 after what was heard of the national anthem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-15.u24	Before we close the session, I would just like to announce the agenda for the next session, which will be held tomorrow for 15 hours. in the first point, the Law Projects Nos 708 / XIV / 2 will be jointly evaluated in general. a ( PS ) — Protection and valorization of the Barranquillo and 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recognition and protection of the Barranquinho and its cultural identity. of the second point is the discussion of Bill No. 516 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transfers the seat of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Entity for Political Accounts to the City of Coimbra, making the tenth amendment to Law No. 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), the third amendment to the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, approved by Law No. 13 / 2002 of 19 February 2002, and the third amendment to Organic Law No. 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law of Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Finance ). in the third point, the Bill No. 148 / XIV / 1 will be appreciated. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service. in the fourth point, together, will be discussed the Bills Nos 883 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — regulates the brokerage and accommodation in balconies and similar spaces of pets, making the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October, and 932 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Improves the conditions for the detention of dogs and cats provided for in Decree-Law No 314/2003 of 17 December 2003. in the fifth and last point, the draft resolution No 1161 / XIV / 2 will be evaluated. a (PV) — National programme for the efficient use of water. Thank you all very much. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 18 minutes.]]
