ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The plenary meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government here present. Before we begin our agenda today, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give you precious information. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. They entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills Nos. 882 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 5. a, 883 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 1. a, 884 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 885 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 886 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were also admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1350 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1351 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1352 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1353 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1354 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to the Eventual Commission for the monitoring of the application of response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic and social recovery process, 1355 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1356 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1357 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 1358 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1359 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1360 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1361 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1364 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR). I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u3	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. on our agenda today there is a debate required by the PS on the theme « PPR : an instrument for the economic and social recovery of the country ». To open the debate, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is much more than a debate on only the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ). It is a debate about the essentials of our lives, in the times we live. It is a debate about the ability to overcome, the desire to do better, the commitment to correct mistakes, the mobilization around common objectives, as citizens sharing a large country, with a history of which we are proud and with values that, I am sure, we want to preserve. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has no doubt: the country must be united in its recovery. This responsible unit is the most important asset and everyone can contribute, especially in view of the struggles we are fighting and the uncertainty that dominates our day-to-day lives. To divide ourselves into the most important is to facilitate failure, open space to doubt and leave Portuguese behind. Let us not hesitate or hesitate to promote all bridges that help our fellow citizens to restore their normal conditions and, above all, to achieve the goals that go far beyond what we had in 2019. We know that ruling in democracy is that we are in constant evaluation and in firm and thorny scrutiny, and therefore no one doubts our intentions. We will act with the certainty that we are doing everything and giving everything so that Portugal will be strengthened from the most shocking crisis of memory, a crisis that has trivialized death and filled us with fear and doubt. at the end of 15 tiring and hard months, we are entering another stage. Despite the doubts and ambiguities that the pandemic problem still ends, we must even start the path of recovery. That is what most Portuguese think and therefore count on us. Despite the positive escalation since 2015, in all sectors of Portuguese society, the shock of recent months has shaken the foundations of this trajectory, but it has not taken us back to the good results of economic convergence and poverty reduction. Moreover, I remember that from that point on to the beginning of this crisis Portugal has grown 9, 3 % and above the European Union average from 2017 onwards. at the same time, almost 400 000 new jobs could be created. This performance boosted exports of 18, 3 %, also above the European Union average since 2016. In fact, the eighth largest growth. Investment has grown 26, 6 %, the fifth largest in the European Union, highlighting a 42 % growth in private investment, which demonstrates companies'confidence in political options and 14 % growth in foreign direct investment stock, which shows that confidence has been extended to external investors and that the competitive conditions of the Portuguese economy are indeed attractive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the same time, substantial gains were obtained in the public accounts, with a singular achievement of the surplus in 2019 and a reduction of 17 percentage points in public debt, giving a margin of manoeuvre of more than EUR 20 billion for the fights that no one had anticipated. The country's reputation gains, obtained with these results, are reflected in the reduction of interest rates whose advantages are still evident today: Portugal has saved more than EUR 2400 million since 2015. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that it serves as a lesson to the country that not all options serve us. The fight against the previous crisis has left marks that have not yet been overcome, including the increase in poverty, the loss of income, the decapitalisation of companies, the disproportionate and unhealthy increase in taxes. The correction made in recent years must continue as soon as the struggle to combat the pandemic can be lifted. We said, from the very first hour, that the state would be present to the citizens and that everything would be done so as not to leave anyone behind. We are meeting this requirement and the demonstration of this fulfilment are the successive forms of support and its calibration, as a result of the dialogue established with society and the main social and business partners, but also, above all, by the evidence of the results. The economy resists, GDP (gross domestic product) outlook for 2020 has been improved by the Banco de Portugal and are compatible with convergence challenges. Employment is below the European Union average, foreign direct investment reveals pandemic records and positions Portugal in the top 10 countries with the highest foreign direct investment in absolute terms. Exports of goods are responding well, despite the negative impact on services, and they already account for 43 % of GDP, i.e. we are only 7 percentage points from the target set for the decade. All of this is the result of some very important things: the ability to resist our businesses and our entrepreneurs, the willingness to fight and contribute to Portuguese workers, the quality of our institutions, but also the set of mechanisms that the Government has made available to businesses and families in an unprecedented anticyclical crisis. A response was given that contrasts with the avalanche of austerity of the 2011 / 2014 crisis, which mistreated Portuguese and shook the economy. The mark of that time was the refusal of the implementation of stabilising measures that countered the river of problems that the crisis brought, marking a step in the resolution of Portuguese contradictions. The motto, we didn't forget, was to go even beyond the troika. I therefore repeat: the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group hopes that those who have behaved like this — those who have cried out and implemented European decisions, some anti-institutional decisions, and who have demanded cuts in pensions, wages and higher taxes — have learned the lesson. It is worth noting that in this crisis we have made a difference: the government has already supported 2, 8 million people and 173 000 enterprises with EUR 3, 4 billion from employment support, involving more than 1 million people with the Layoff, to deep support lost to businesses in more than EUR 1000 million and with various credit lines, almost EUR 9 billion financing for 60 000 companies, as well as tens of extraordinary support and whose growth in social security expenditure is unequivocal proof. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only discussing a plan of this kind today, which provides a lot of financial means in full lost, paid by all European countries, a payment not by the actual proportion of the expenditure but by the condition of each country, because this government has also hit the foot and has not stopped until the debate and approval of the already known « basuca » has been placed on the European agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not put ourselves in a kiss to receive praise, but we will not forget that the Prime Minister has always been the face of defending European solidarity with the countries that needed it most. It was a long and complex journey that began in the European debate on the existence, and after its own size, of the bazouca. Fortunately, we have successfully passed this decisive phase, and we have put all our efforts in the design of the plan that has just been approved with unquestionable distinction. After the involvement of an independent personality, hundreds of interactions and debates, two public consultations and the involvement of the Assembly itself, Portugal saw its approved plan in the front platoon, avoiding waste of time, taking into account the needs that are in view of everyone. But it was not any approval: the Portuguese PRR was praised by the European Commission precisely on some aspects that raised doubts and concerns and, of the 11 criteria established for evaluation, 10 of them had a maximum rating. It tells the European Commission, in its assessment report, that the Portuguese PRR gives a balanced response and contributes to its six pillars of European policy and therefore has a maximum rating. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the second criterion, also with a maximum rating, the European Commission says that our plan meets all the challenges identified in the recommendations in the context of the European Semester. The European Commission says that Portugal has provided an adequate and sufficient response to the immediate needs to combat the pandemic. As a third criterion, the European Commission stresses that the plan contributes to the potential growth and creation of long-term jobs, i.e. a maximum classification. In the fourth criterion, the evaluation is clear and excellent. The planned investments and reforms do not harm the environmental objectives. In the fifth and sixth criteria, both again with a maximum classification, the assessment states that the Portuguese PRR contributes to the ecological and digital transition. In the evaluation of the seventh criterion, there is a direct response to those who have doubts about the potential impact of the PRR. The European Commission shall assess as a maximum the lasting impact of the PRR on the country, due to structural changes. As regards the model designed for implementation, the eighth criterion, the European Commission assesses how excellent and says that the Portuguese PRR in monitoring and implementing has all the appropriate mechanisms. In matters relating to the costs associated with reforms and investments, the ninth criterion, the European Commission allocates second-level classifications, praising the rationale for the costs. In the anti-corruption mechanism, the tenth criterion, the European Commission assesses the Portuguese PRR as a maximum score. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, compared to 11. the criterion, also with a maximum note, the European Commission stresses that the Portuguese RPP presents a coherent strategy, in which reforms and investment do not observe any contradiction. In addition to all this, which is not little, and which should fill us with pride, it still reinforces positive comments on the contribution to the construction of the European social pillar, stressing reforms in the context of gender equality, in particular the reduction of wage disparity between men and women, the contribution to education, the contribution to economic and social cohesion and the contribution to enhancing productivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u5	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u6	I'm done. Mr President, today we are debating a good plan, with appropriate means, in the right dimension and with clear priorities, with a mobilized and hopeful country in the future. Tomorrow we will continue the work of recovering our country, to and from the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u7	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u8	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I did not understand who you said the government « beat the foot ». Did you talk about 'knocking the foot' but 'knocking the foot' to whom? I don't get it. What I've heard in recent days was Mr. Prime Minister receiving a very strong earbrush from Mrs. Chancellor Angela Merkel. That's what we heard. But finally... [[Protests of PS Members.]] Mr President, in this pandemic crisis, Europe has put itself at the heart of the answer, that is true, there has been a very strong European response — and still well! But the recovery plan of each country, namely our recovery plan, Mr. Carlos Pereira, is the responsibility of the Government of the Socialist Party, the Government supported by management. And that is precisely where «the pig twists its tail », Mr. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The PRR is the product of an option and that is the option of the Socialist Party. The PRR represents about two-thirds of State support, State public expenditure, State investment, and one-third for companies. This is an option of the Government, a wrong option of the Government. The PRR is not focused on companies, I fear it from the beginning, and this is an indisputable truth. The PRR is not focused on creating more and better jobs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u9	What the PRR should do was bet on employment and investment. But you don't, that's not what you do. Just a week ago, we had a debate in this Parliament on competitiveness. It was very clear in this debate that socialist governance has been able to delay our country, our economy, in the countries we compete with over the past 25 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u11	And it has achieved absolutely worrying results: lower competitiveness, lower productivity, lower GDP per capita, worse public services, overwhelming tax burden on families and businesses and a stagnant economy in the last 25 years. So, what was required? A RRP focused on structural reforms, which increase the competitiveness of the economy and businesses, a RRP promoting investment and exports, a balanced RRP looking at the current territory. In this regard, Mr Carlos Pereira, in recent days Mr President of the Economic and Social Council ( CES ), Francisco Assisi, said that we should increase productivity, raise incomes and improve population qualifications. He said these are some of the key points to take into account in a post-pandemic scenario. And it's true, we can't agree any more. With regard to what you said here in your speech, in which you spoke a little bit about the European Commission's report on the PRR — and it was not foreseeable that this PRR would be rejected because it is an option of the Portuguese Government — I would like to ask you three questions to which I would like you to answer. First of all, why do the Socialist Party and the Government consider a plan more important based on public investment, public spending, and do not put companies at the centre of recovery? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u12	Portugal has had a stagnant economy for 20 years. Why does it seem to you that the same recipes will produce different results, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u14	It is clear to all Portuguese that in five years the Government of Management has been totally incompetent in the implementation of public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u16	What leads us to think that now it's going to be, with the volume of what's planned in the PRR? Mr. Carlos Pereira, our great and illustrious Portuguese Alexandre O’ Neilll may have said the following: « One thing thinks the horse; another one who is riding it». But I would like you to explain to the Portuguese how the government will answer these questions, so central to what we have to do in the coming years, Mr. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u17	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u18	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, thank you very much for the questions put. I want to start by saying that it seems that the PSD has returned to the debate on the lack of support for companies in the PRR. In the previous debate, if I recall — and until we can consult their report — the subject was different, it was that eventually there was little public investment in the PRR. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] In other words, the PSD will wander between public investment and private investment, according to the Member who intervenes or as appropriate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, we also need to observe the PRR carefully. They are in the PRR nearly EUR 5000 million for companies, and of course we all know that most of the public investment that is there will be realized by companies. So there's a lot of money there for companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, as you know, there is also a limit for the implementation of the means by companies, this does not happen only to the State. In fact, the difficulties in implementing the means exist not only by the State but also by the companies. And it is not reasonable, nor would anyone understand, that we could possibly have EUR 16 billion for companies and that they would execute everything. You know that this is not possible, even because they would not have the capacity to finance it. So, Mr. Member, there are EUR 5000 million for companies... [[PSD protests.]] ...and more EUR 6 billion in PT2030, which is twice what we had in PT2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore hope that all this money will be used well by companies and that things will go well, because we believe in the potential of our business economic fabric to recover the country, which will be absolutely essential. About public investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u19	It was a disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u20	Mr. Deputies and several Mrs. PSD Members are systematically bringing the issue of public investment and we have, systematically, even if we do not like, to remember what you have done with public investment. Look, Mr, it was as follows : in 2011 35, 2 % fell, 32, 3 % fell, and in 2013 10 % fell, and in 2014 6, 9 % fell.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u21	Go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u22	In 2015, it increased by 17 %. But do you know why? Because we closed the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u23	Even so, it's bigger than the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u24	Let me finish! In 2016, it fell again...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u25	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u26	Let me explain, let me explain! In 2016, it fell again because we started the program and you didn't know how to leave the program ready. The program was so poorly prepared that it was impossible to run as it should be in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] In 2017, it increased,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u27	Podera! If it didn't increase! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u28	... in 2018, increased; in 2019, increased; and in 2020, increased 18, 1 %. Therefore, it is not worth systematically bringing a lie to this plenary when you know that this is not the case. Now let me end by looking at what you mentioned in the last debate on the PSD electoral programme with regard to competitiveness. In fact, I hadn't read it, but I went to read it and started right away for competitiveness. To that end, you say that the cycle of competitiveness is made up of an innovation bet. We agree. But it was precisely the PSD and CDS that created the biggest tom in innovation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2014, Portugal was the country that fell most in research and development ( R & D ), which placed it at an incredible distance from what was the main goal of research and development in GDP. But let's keep going. The PSD also says that in order to solve all these issues of competitiveness, it is necessary — and look at this! — changing the Ministry of Economics. So what does the Ministry of Economics need to do? I will read what is said in the PSD electoral programme: « It is necessary to reformulate the entire Ministry of Economics, in order to give it the ‘soul’ of an economic policy (...) ». The soul! I am a Catholic, I believe in God, but if it is just to have faith, we will not get there and that is not what we will overcome the problems we have. As for the attraction of foreign direct investment, Mr President, they also say that it is important. Now, I have just said in my speech that the country, with the Socialist Government, managed to place Portugal, in time of pandemic, on the top 10 of the most attractive economies from the point of view of foreign direct investment. That is, from my point of view, very clear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I will finish by talking about the European funds. You know what the PSD's plan for businesses and for Community funds — and now the Minister has this tip — does he say?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u29	Even tell the ministers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u30	The PSD plan for companies and for Community funds basically says that the proportion for companies should be around 20 % to 30 %. Now, the PRR has 30 % and the PT2020 will have 25 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u31	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 22 April of the current year, Portugal was the first Member State to submit the final proposal of its PRR, as it is known. Last week, the European Commission completed its analysis of our proposal, and its President gave public testimony to the highly positive evaluation of this same PRR. Once again, it was the first plan to be completed by the European Commission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So far, we have done, on time and strictly, what we were expected to do in terms of negotiation and approval of the PRR. Some intend to devalue this effort that Portugal collectively made to always be at the forefront of the successive stages of implementation of the PRR. We want to make it clear that this effort pursued by all, by a very diverse set of actors who, with the Government and the Administration, have actively collaborated, this effort, unquestionably successful at the internal and European level, had a double objective. Firstly, a goal of the Portuguese Presidency, which now ends, to give a significant impetus to the Next Generation EU. by setting an example, in line with the front line, Portugal has achieved one of the mottos of its Presidency : « Time to act ». Yes, in this semester we were the locomotive that pulled the train from the recovery and resilience process in the Union at 27. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At national level, we also wanted to be the first, not to receive any distinction or praise, but only because we understand that it is necessary, the country asks for, our economy asks, our territories ask, the Portuguese people urgently ask for support, funding, a strategy to help Portugal recover, to help Portugal from an economic and social point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what moves us, it is the interests of the Portuguese, their economy and their territories. This is what we have done at European level and this is what we have achieved at this time not only for Portugal, but for a number of other countries which will also be made available in the near future. In the context of a programme with new rules, we were able to negotiate and adopt a PRR, which naturally corresponds to regulatory matters, at the same time responds to national strategies. Mr Afonso Oliveira, « beatos o foot», yes! "We beat our feet" for our interests. [[PSD protests.]] Let me give you an example...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u33	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u34	Let me give you an example: what the PSD and the CDS did not achieve in the negotiation of the previous Community framework, in terms of financing for, for example, roads, we have achieved in this Recovery and Resilience Plan,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... defending it, repeatedly and intelligently, to get highways that are part of the closure of the networks and are as essential as cross-border links, such as links of business areas to the main road network, from the financing of the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was with the effort and support of all Portuguese, politicians, Members and Euro MPs that we achieved this attempt and that you did not succeed within the framework of Portugal 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u35	You were an executioner of the painting!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u36	But that is not why it was not for our strategy to meet the regulatory requirements that we were unable to respond, and robust, to our needs. I speak of betting as unprecedented investment volumes in health, housing, support infrastructures for the elderly, children and people with disabilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am also talking about economic resilience through capitalisation and innovation to businesses, support for the decarbonisation of industry, bio-economics and the presence of SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) in the digital economy. Finally, I am talking about investment in territorial infrastructures, such as those I have just mentioned, such as network closure highways, and interventions in water management in territories most threatened by the drought scourge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I speak without any kind of complex, a strong investment in Public Administration, in modernization and agileization in critical areas such as justice, efficiency of public spending, digital education and social security, and in general relations with citizens and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party and its Government do not have any kind of complexity in this type of investment because it will contribute to the competitiveness of the country and businesses and to the improvement of the lives of citizens in Portugal. All of this was certainly achieved in complex negotiations, which lasted eight months, involving administrative technicians, diplomats and political leaders, as I said, including this Assembly of the Republic and the European Parliament itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of this was achieved not only in injury but with great advantages from a broad process of public hearing, with more than 1700 contributions and with the active participation of several stakeholders interested in this process. Having arrived here, with the approval of the European Commission, only a few final steps are missing, which will be completed in the coming weeks. The first stage is overdue and the objectives set have been achieved. Running the PRR according to its own rules and within the defined deadlines is now our priority. We aim to: execute, conduct and implement investments and reforms; gather the means and project teams; prepare and develop the necessary plans and parts; launch the contests, award the works and supplies of equipment; monitor and monitor the work; deliver results; report results and information. from here until 2026, the priorities of the PRR cannot be other. It will be on this path that we will seek the support of all and all. We will try to converge with other wills and we will try to mobilize not only the Portuguese but all the forces that we want to achieve along this path. We know that, to go far away, we want to be accompanied, but we also want to go quickly and, to go quickly, we know that we have to make choices. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u37	14 were registered. Members to request clarification from the Minister, who has already informed the Bureau that he intends to respond to two groups of seven. To that end, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Planning, in this discussion on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, it is undeniable that it represents a lot of money, but at the moment it is not enough to ask when we can go to the bank and how the millions will be distributed. We need to go further and think about the strategic options for the country's recovery and future, not from criteria determined by the Brussels technocrats and the interests of the great powers, but from criteria that take into account the needs that the country faces, which are different from the problems of other European countries. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u39	When European Commissioners commend the PRR presented by the Government, saying that it corresponds to the objectives of the European mechanism, the translation to good Portuguese is: "These are the good-behaving ones who accept without questioning what we have already decided. Do not keep on seeking. ” Without denying the importance of'resilience', 'climate' and 'digital transition', will there not be other dimensions that need to be answered in an economy with as many weaknesses as ours? For example, are there dimensions such as strengthening the productive apparatus and dynamising the economy in industry, agriculture and fisheries? How will production capacity be recovered and imports replaced by national production? How are we going to produce more to owe less? Without denying the importance of tourism, how will we stop being overly dependent on this sector, particularly in some regions? How and when, in sectors such as energy or banking, we will no longer be dependent on multinationals and foreign capital, which are not interested in the strategic character of these sectors and invest in fundamental assets for the country? For so many years, the CFP has been almost alone talking about the importance of national production. Now, even the Strategic Vision of Costa Silva, speaks about this. But it gives the desire to ask the following: if this is a strategy for the future, would it not be better to start by not destroying the already installed productive capacity? I refer to the example of the Port refinery. The closure of this refinery means that we are going to import what we produce, not only refined fuels, but also other products that are used by industrial poles, particularly in Estarreja. It is not a matter of energy or climate, because fuel will continue to be sold, it will become imported; it is, above all, the destruction of another industrial unit. This is another example of what remains the lack of a policy that takes national production as a priority, which demonstrates the need for public control over strategic sectors. As much as necessary these options for the future of the country, these are options that do not fit the criteria of the European mechanism. The government should « hit the foot », yes, and insist on this priority of national production and strategic sectors, but that is not what we have seen both in the PRR and in other dimensions. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u40	For a request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Planning, in a recent interview, Mr Minister spoke about the need for compliance with the implementation of the PRR – he still spoke about it today – saying that we are going to examine every semester and we cannot fail. He also said that every six months Portugal will have to comply with the evaluation rules that it has agreed with the European Commission. On the other hand, Portugal has committed itself to achieving 341 indicators and objectives, with 32 reforms and 83 investments, on which realisation depends to achieve the disbursement of the funds. It is assumed that some of these indicators or targets will be achieved by the simple execution, or not, of the project and others will depend even on legislative reforms, such as in the area of housing or health. What is still not clear to us is that concrete evaluation rules have been agreed with the Commission. Are we talking about subjecting ourselves to rules similar to those of the European Semester? Or are we talking about the pure and simple execution of projects? Are we facing any scenario in which we might be talking about conditionalisms or counter-compliant by the fulfilment, or failure, of these 341 objectives? The Minister knows that we have already asked him this question several times, but it has the same reason to be: firstly, because the European history in this matter is very bad, especially for Portugal ; and secondly, because there is still no clarity about what this "six-month examination" really means to which the country will be subject. Therefore, we would like today to clarify, indeed, what is on the table. But I wanted to ask you one more question about public investment in general and the meaning of the RPP in the context of that same investment. in this debate, the right continues with the fact that there is no more public investment in the PRR,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u42	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u43	... although this also depends on the day and the subject they're talking about, and I wanted the state to be a direct tournament for the private, without a great criterion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u44	No great criteria? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u45	No great criterion went to the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u46	We have never accepted and continue without accepting this view of the right and this debate that you want to do. In fact, there is no more public investment. Just look at the numbers: Portugal continues with very low levels of public investment. In fact, the PRR in practice does not mean, or may not mean, an increase in public investment. So much so that some ministries are forwarding State Budget money to start some PRR projects already, so that there are no delays. I'll give you an example. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing has already planned to spend about EUR 125 million of the funding included in the RPP on a matter that is not new, which has been a long time ago and which is the Local Housing Strategies. They're in the PRR, but they're already coming back from the State Budget. Therefore, we are no longer in the face of investment, we are in the face of a temporary exchange concerning the origin of money.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u47	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u48	Secondly, it was Mr. Minister himself who spoke about the projects of the works in the meters of Lisbon and Porto and of the projects in the area of energy efficiency, which are already in progress, with funds from the State budget, although part of these projects also go to the PRR. Therefore, we are talking about projects that were already registered, in fact, in the State Budget. There is therefore no increase in investment; there is once again a temporary exchange concerning the origin of the money. After all, Portugal remains one of the countries in the euro area which has the lowest public investment as a percentage of GDP. Where do we want to come up with this reasoning? Oh, my God! To a very obvious question: where is the announced increase in public investment, which, from our point of view, is very necessary? The Minister knows that the Left Block has always defended the increase in public investment, but, according to the analysis of this PRR and how it is being executed, there is no increase in public investment. We wanted this to be clarified. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u49	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have seen the Government constantly, over the past year, re-retiring with the PRR, describing it as a great opportunity to start a lasting, strong economic recovery that allows the country to gain space in its economic statement. We accept that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u51	Ah! Less bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u52	In fact, this is extremely relevant to the Portuguese economy. However, the signs that we have been collecting cause us the greatest apprehension. Mr Minister, in the forecasts contained in the Stability Programme, which covers 2021 to 2025, it is the government itself that confesses that after the PRR and during the PRR, the economy will not grow by more than 2 %, far less than all the Cohesion countries, those countries with which we compare ourselves and by which, inevitably, year after year, we have been overcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u53	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u54	Both for me, and for those who look at the country and want another ambition, a more advanced economy, with greater prosperity, and not a Prime Minister who rejoices and asks, humbly, when you can go to the bank, for us, that is very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u56	But, Minister, there's more. Notice: the European Commission itself, in the evaluations which the Socialist Party described as an exuberant recognition of the PRR which it presented, says that the other countries comparing with us, notably Spain, Greece and others, have a greater outlook for economic growth through the PRR than ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u58	It remains extraordinary that those who present the PRR as a driving force of the Portuguese economy are in line with the fact that our programme is a programme of perpetuation of dependence, of perpetuation of decline, and not of the convergence of the country's assertion in the European framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u60	But as far as implementation is concerned, we also have significant doubts. Mr. Minister : contrary to what has been said, Portugal, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, in 2020, and hopefully in 2021, is the country that registers, and will register less public investment in the European Union! The question that the House is asking is the following: Does the Government, which has registered public investment over all these years and has fallen to EUR 1400 million in 2020, assure us that it is competent, contrary to what it has been, to carry out the public investment that it has registered in the PRR? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u61	Finally, Mr Minister, I want to talk about the horrendous mistake, the tragic mistake of the government's political options. Do you know why we say that companies are more important within the PRR and that distribution is wrong? I will tell you why: Portugal was the country that supported less and that had a greater crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u62	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u63	If we support less, we have a bigger crisis, we have less than 18 % of investment than we had in 2018 and we have our companies completely decapitalized, there is no need to be a mathematical doctor to understand that if we do nothing different, the result will be the same. What we want from the Minister is a firm commitment. Will Portugal converge, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u64	It is the time of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, to ask for clarifications. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, the PS propaganda machine has made extraordinary hours to try to make this Recovery and Resilience Plan a consistent plan, but it has not succeeded. [[Protests of PS Members.]] This, for us, Liberal Initiative, is the plan of the « but ». First example: European Commissioner Elisa Ferreira says it is difficult to see Portugal, after so many years of receiving so much support, to continue among the countries that are lagging behind, but the Prime Minister says that we have a great history of implementing the funds. What he means is that we can spend all the money that they give us, because growth does not see it, otherwise we were not in that group of the countries that are later.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u67	Another example: the Minister of Planning tells us that we are in a lot of hurry and is very happy that we were the first with the approved plan, but then we will see and Spain will execute the PRR in half the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u68	Say it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u69	Surely, it is because Spain has no problems, it is a much slower country than Portugal and, therefore, it is much faster than us! Open... But it happens that the governance that is planned for this PRR is so heavy that we really couldn't go any faster.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u70	It's heavy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u71	It's too heavy. And that liberal maxim is right that central planning is even the greatest enemy of economic freedom. But I have more examples. The Prime Minister was very pleased with the reduction of context costs that is foreseen in this PRR, relative to the costs of justice and social security—I also like to reduce these context costs! — but it did not occur to reduce the cost of the larger context of everyone, of companies and people, who are taxed. On the companies that are drowned in taxes in Portugal, it is vaguely said in the PRR that it will move in the deduction of retained and reinvested profits—it is not quite clear how — and people continue to drown in taxes and are forced to emigrate, especially the most qualified ones, in order to be able to rise in life. More: the government was very angry with the Liberal Initiative when we said that this Recovery and Resilience Plan was not intended for companies, but it was going to scratch the patch than it could and could not increase the values, it included everything that was indirect impacts, indirect impacts of indirect impacts, to reach a third of the plan's application to companies. But in fact, directly to companies only go the capitalization money of the Portuguese Development Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u72	You know how!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u73	And, let's see, in the goals, they're going to support 1300 companies by 2026. When we have 450 000 companies in Portugal, the Development Bank will hopefully support 1300, this in accordance with its own words, Minister, if we are creative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u74	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u75	I mean, we still don't know how we're gonna do it. Last example: Mr President also said that it is very good, finally, to be able to measure and be measured by the objectives we propose, and I agree with 100 %, but if the plan has not gone to Brussels today, we were still to have quantified objectives and timetables for these same measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u77	Therefore, this may be a Recovery and Resilience Plan, but it is a recovery plan for the state and resilience—it would even say resistance—for people and businesses, and we're going to spend another six years watching the other countries move on, that is, six more years walking back. [[Congrats from PSD Members Cristovão Norte and Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u78	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Begonha, from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, my intervention is precisely about an area which proves that the social recovery of the country and public investment are present and are a priority of this PRR. It was when the country needed to stay at home, with this pandemic, that the problem of the housing crisis revealed the greatest social risks and it is clear that there cannot therefore be a fight against the crisis, we cannot even recover the country without making access to housing worthy of one of the great objectives of our Recovery and Resilience Plan. The one who has been, for decades, a right underestimated by successive governments, the poorest relative of the social state, has been one of the fundamental pillars of this governance: ensuring access to housing for all as a collective obligation of the state, such as health or education. And investments in the PRR advance that same design. Leaving the social responses of housing or access of middle classes or young people to the housing market revealed a spectacular failure of right-wing policies in this area, as well as a profound need to intervene in it. This intensified the urgency that the country has to carry out the most important investment in housing in decades, such as that of the PRR. And all our effort and energy must, in fact, be focused on taking advantage of this opportunity for the country in such a short period of time, up to 2026. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The investment provided for in the RPP for housing is, in fact, one of the best examples of collective effort, and at different levels of governance, necessary to meet this opportunity for families, who know how urgent housing responses are. The growing number, which has already been mentioned here, of local housing strategies held between central and local authorities reveal, precisely, an important consensus on the importance of Programme 1. the right to create 26 000 housing solutions, or eliminate 26 000 deficiencies already identified. They also reveal the vital importance of combating the greatest obstacle to public intervention to respond to the housing crisis—either to create more decent housing or supply at affordable prices—which is the very small size of the public housing park, which the Government has chosen, and well, to place as priority. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u80	We are faced with an opportunity to invest more, to realize more, within the objectives assumed by the PS and the Government to overcome structural challenges in housing and that do not run out in the PRR: increasing social and affordable housing; eliminating from the country the scourge of unsafe, unhealthy or overcrowding housing; financing the National Stock Exchange of Urgent and Temporary Housing for those who need it most, ending with the deficiencies of housing dignity until 2024; improving the lives of the middle classes and young people, for those who pay housing, often equivalent to impoverishment; increasing the offer of student housing; among others. To meet these designs and overcome the challenges in housing, we know that PRR will not be enough and therefore public investment and housing policies will continue beyond the time horizon of 2026. Mr Minister, focusing on the PRR, it is clear the vital importance that this instrument has for a real impact on advancing the right to housing. And the question we want to ask you is about the execution of more than 3,000 million for housing, so that no opportunity in this area is left behind. Mr Prime Minister and Mr Minister say that the important thing now is to do, so our question is the following: in the framework of the implementation of the PRR, what priorities and next steps will be taken in this area so important for the country? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u81	You have the floor to ask for clarification by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, first of all, I ask you — it has already been asked several times, not only by the CDS in the past, but by Mr President, today. Members of other political forces—which responds to something that is fundamental. This PRR is presented with indicators which, from our point of view, are very difficult to match with each other, particularly the indicator of the multiplier effect of each euro attributed to this PRR with the values of economic growth that our economy is supposed to have over the years. Clearly, the multiplier effect must be lost somewhere, because it does not reach economic growth. To understand, indeed, what effect will the PRR have on Portugal, I ask you the following: in terms of growth, how many relative positions will Portugal conquer, compared with its European partners? That is, as a rule, we have grown less than many of our partners and less than our most relevant partners. With the PRR, how many places are we going to recover? Another important indicator: GDP per capita. We have also lost positions in GDP per capita in recent years, which means that our per capita wealth has fallen. With the PRR, how many positions are we going to recover in the GDP per capita indicator? I mean, how many countries are we going to go through? Are we gonna get better than how many of our current competitors? Another indicator and that for us is the most important of all at the level of Portuguese economic well-being: average wage. This PRR will have an effect on our economy. How does this effect come about at the level of the average wage? That is, how will the Portuguese feel, at the end of the month, about what their remuneration is, the effect of an investment plan with the size that this investment plan has? I am referring now to two concrete questions about how the government tries to mislead the one who is an essentially public sector programme, showing that it also devotes some attention to the private sector. I will only ask for two concepts in the rhetoric and in the Government's text, the concepts « mobilising agenda » and « co-promotion ». The Government presents as relevant the « mobilising agendas ». It was Mr. Minister of Economy who said that these objectives — which are not ambitious — 53% of GDP exports increased by 2030, increased R & D investment to reach 3% of GDP by 2030, and reduced CO2 emissions by 55 % by 2030, reached the « mobilising agendas ». It turns out that universities and companies that are called into these'mobilising agendas' — in the Government's speech they are called to make quality applications — have no idea how many'mobilising agendas' there are and what are the themes of these'mobilising agendas', nor do they know what their role is in these'mobilising agendas'. Therefore, before defining objectives and assigning the responsibility for meeting these objectives to companies and universities, the Government agreed at least to say what these'mobilising agendas' are, how many will exist and to which sectors. Then we have the question of 'co-promotion' between the public and the private. What does that mean? What does it mean in terms of money and what does it mean in terms of responsibilities? In order to have a 'copromotion', i.e. applications developed between public and private entities, he also agreed that those who could compete with them — universities and companies — know something. The only thing you know so far is that until September you will have to present expressions of interest. Knowing that they will have to present expressions of interest by September, they would have to know at least what the government is talking about when it presents these « mobilising agendas» and this « co-promotion ». There is much to be done, Mr Minister, for the involvement of entities that may benefit from this PRR, and therefore the growth success in GDP per capita and wages also depends very much on the capacity that the Government has to density what is currently going to be presented without real insight into what that means in the field. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u83	You have the floor for a final request for clarification in this first series, Mrs Filipa Roseta, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, Minister, 2, 7 billion, 26 000 fires for housing : clearly this government has already entered into history as the government of the « paper houses ». He never talked so much about something he did so little. [[Mr Duarte Marques's laughter.]] This government of 'paper houses' tells us that it will do this: it will use 2, 7 billion to 26 000 fires. And I ask, Minister, what are these 26,000 fires? Where are they? I will explain why I ask this question. It is that the first 30 councils that asked for them, with local strategies, have already reached 26 000 fires, and all the others are still missing. Therefore, my doubt is how Mr. Prime Minister is walking through the country promising the 26,000 fires to everyone,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u85	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u86	... when the various local housing strategies have already exceeded these 26,000 fires in a lot. Have you ever seen what's going on in the real country? Oh, my God! Have you seen what's going on? You are promising everyone the same 26 000 fires, when local strategies, as a whole, have overcome them in great measure. Only the Lisbon Metropolitan Area has passed, the 30 municipalities that have applied have already passed...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u87	The 26,000? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u88	Mr. Minister, I will be waiting for your answer. But I'd say one more thing. This size policy that you follow, i.e. as the municipalities arrive are being served—so, whoever comes first, receives first—has no equity or social justice. Where is equity or social justice here, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u90	What the PSD proposed, and was rejected twice in this Parliament by the Socialist Party, was that money should be invested in energy efficiency and support for our isolated elderly. We have proposed — that is what is in our document — that there should be dignity in housing and in the ageing of the most fragile up to the last day of life. That was our proposal, because those who need to work need jobs, jobs, jobs — qualified jobs, jobs for their capabilities, to be all they can be. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to think about this: the last Deloitte report says that Portugal has 6 million homes for 4 million aggregates. It is the country of Europe with more housing per inhabitant—has more dwellings than Germany, has more dwellings than Italy, has more dwellings than France. The country has houses, it doesn't have heads! We need head to think how this can be done! And do you know who is the largest owner of the homes that are abandoned and returned? Do we know? Oh, my God! It's the state! Do you know who the Prime Minister was in 2016 who promised to end the scourge of abandoned buildings and in the last five years he hasn't done anything with the same buildings he's now saying he's going to rehabilitate? It was Antonio Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u91	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u92	So if in the last five years, with 6 million going to the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, they have not been executed — 6 million! — How do you want to convince someone that you are going to do something in the next five years? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u93	In reply, Mr. Minister of Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the various questions. First of all, on the recurring subject of support for companies, Mr President. Members have a good opportunity to access the information already validated and confirmed by the European Commission. They excuse the evaluation of thinktanks on their own, because there is now the European Commission's audited evaluation. I respect very much the assessment of each of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen — I must of course respect those Members who are present in this House — but I finally leave to the Portuguese court the choice between the opinion of each of the Members. Members and the opinion of those who, by their own law, have made the evaluation of the programmes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And what I can tell you about the question of companies and the weight of support for companies, in the programmes with the evaluation completed so far — is public knowledge that are eight programmes — Portugal has the highest percentage of support for companies with regard to direct subsidies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is not only the first because Greece devotes all the loans to financing companies, which Portugal has already done, outside the PRR, through credit lines. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, I would like to say again that from the programmes which have already been completed by the European Commission, Portugal is the one which devotes the highest percentage — indeed, as Mr. Carlos Pereira has already said — in line with the recommendation of the PSD alternative programme which has 30 % allocated to the RPP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As it will have the same percentage in Portugal 2030, it will even double the effort devoted to supporting companies for the next Community period. I don't like to discuss strategies based on money allocation. It is a bad criterion, because we are not here to distribute funding packages by various types of beneficiaries. What we are interested in is the strategy behind the programmes and that is where financial resources are allocated. This is the way to discuss the programmes and their adequacy to the reality that they want to transform. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not, at first, depending on the power and the various games of interest, that we distribute and pre-affect resources...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u95	There are no games of interest, there is the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u96	... which are of a public nature and which, as such, must pursue objectives of public policy. Therefore, I do not like to discuss a pre-distribution of public resources allocation by the nature of beneficiaries. Anyway, there's the information I just gave. On the issue of Mr Duarte Alves on strategic options, of course we are here to discuss strategic options. Of course, we have some different views on how to approach the economy, but there are points of convergence. I have already said that one of the problems the Portuguese economy has is its high content imported from the investment variable, which limits our investment capacity, especially in periods that require greater intensity of this variable, and that, from a macroeconomic point of view, causes the growth of this investment variable. in this perspective, it is of interest to us, for example, that there is greater national participation in the investment component, as well as production in general. This is because, in the growth of production in general — or stimulating programmes of this kind, which will stimulate demand — we are also interested in greater participation in national supply. Therefore, from this point of view, we have convergent paths. What we are looking for is that the development of this national productive capacity will take place in a perspective of global competitiveness, not only based on an internal market perspective, only to meet domestic demand. We may have points of disagreement there, but we have points of convergence too. I use to answer the question of the central measure we have to support productive investment within the framework of the RPP. I have had the opportunity to say that, within the framework of support for companies, we are not merely undermining the support that exists within the framework of the PT2020, which will be continued within the framework of the PT2030. I repeat, we will no longer mimic these types of support within the PRR framework because that is not why the PRR exists. The PRR exists to bring additionality — I am going to the question, moreover, raised by Mrs Isabel Pires — but what matters is that the PRR focuses on new and additional dimensions, which PT2020 and PT2030 do not even have a vocation to do. That is why, on the mobilization agendas, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, it was unfortunate that he had not had the opportunity to go to Porto Business School yesterday, where we launched a contest of ideas for the mobilization agendas. Yesterday we announced that, in the coming days, competitions will be opened, with all the conditions written there. That is why you say you do not know, but you will see your curiosity satisfied in the next few days! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[So, say it!]] [[So, say it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u97	In the next few days! So don't come here... the program is still not approved and see that we're already in such a hurry,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u98	Hurry up? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u99	Yeah, hurry up! It is that the programme is not yet approved and what we want to inform, we want to mobilize, we want to create conditions to form consortia from now on! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover: what we did in this session was to invite companies, institutions of the scientific and technological system to mobilise the rest of the companies, the rest of the institutions to help them, in the first phase, to apply for themselves and to manifest interests in order to then, in a second phase, to have the competition. This was done the week after we heard a positive assessment from the European Commission. So what do you want more? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] On the question of indicators methodology, what we agreed with the European Commission is what is written in the regulation. These indicators will not have any quantitative metric that results in a quantitative assessment of a rating that automatically gives rise to a quantitative result. What is written in the regulation is that there will be an evaluation that will say whether compliance is satisfactory or not. This type of assessment carries risks, it is true, but it is also more flexible for us, both on one side and on the other. That is what is written in the Rules of Procedure and that is how it will be. Therefore, we will present the data on that set of indicators and then we will negotiate the evaluation with the Commission, naturally defending our vision and certainly negotiating with the Commission, six months a half, that same assessment. That's right. We are waiting for what is called an operational agreement to be proposed, which must take place after the European Council finally adopts... [[Pause.]] Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, I have made an assessment, the European Commission has made another one, the Portuguese who choose in which they have more confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What has been said is published on all sites. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u100	I respect and consider your opinion. That's your opinion. On the issue of evaluation, this is a technical assessment based on a model that has been chosen for all European countries. It is a macroeconomic model, the QUEST, which is adopted from a technical point of view and has therefore been defined by the European Commission. So, I'm sorry, for our part, you gave those results... you have questions to ask about that. You'll have every right to put them, but the result you gave was that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u101	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mr Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, just over 15 days ago, in the Assembly of the Republic, a recommendation was adopted to the Government, on a proposal from the CFP, which responds to the enormous consensus in the Setúbal Peninsula regarding the access of this region to the structural funds, in a process in which the association of municipalities in the region was able to bring together several intervention agents on this matter. This recommendation, adopted with the votes in favour of all parties, recommends that the Government reconstitute the NUTS (common nomenclature of the territorial statistical units) III — Setubal and Great Lisbon Peninsula — study the redesign of the NUTS II and, until completed, strengthen support with the structures of the European Union and already implement, within the multiannual financial framework, measures to ensure that funding is not reduced throughout the metropolitan area and that additional compensatory flows to the Setubal Peninsula through all available financing instruments, including the Recovery and Resilience Plan. We all know how the Setúbal Peninsula has been penalized in access to Community funds. Although its indicators are characteristic of a convergence region, it is not considered as such, which constitutes a huge injustice that needs to be resolved and leads Portugal to receive fewer transfers from the European Union as a whole. The Setúbal Peninsula has also been severely penalized by the reduced public investment of successive governments, despite several commitments already made by the government, but not yet implemented. The Government cannot continue to ignore this reality. The resolution, adopted unanimously, points to the way forward. It is now in the hands of the Government to ensure its implementation. This week, on the parliamentary days of the CFP, we had the opportunity to meet with several officials from the economic and social area area and which strongly place the need for measures, particularly within the framework of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which allows the region to have more access to the funds. Therefore, Mr Minister, considering that the Government has already taken the commitment to move forward with the process for the reconstitution of a NUTS III in the Setubal and NUTS III Peninsula in Great Lisbon, we would like to ask what is the situation with regard to this process and when the Government intends to start the study on the redesign of NUTS II. Whereas the PRR is not regionalized and its implementation is national, the Government has the conditions to define its application on the territory. We therefore want to see what measures the Government intends to take now so that the Setúbal Peninsula will not be harmed and will be able to access more Community funds. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u103	Mrs Rosário Gambôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the approval of the PRR by the European Commission enshrines, in the words of the Prime Minister, the transition from hope to confidence, opening the doors in time of action. Now, the plan is not a blank check, it is a compromise with goals, objectives and timetables that everyone convenes, that must unite us and bring us here today. I would like to introduce the culture component, which is in the PRR, because for the Government public consultations are effective, heard and the opinion of the citizens is taken into account. However, the inclusion of culture in the RRP, with a very significant volume, will enable, according to the characteristics of the RRP, to boost a necessary recovery and reform programme and, at the same time, to lay structural foundations for a different future. In short, there are two major areas in which culture is organized: the rehabilitation of heritage — material, natural, immaterial — and digital transition. In the case of culture, an ambitious programme, but more than the millions of digitizations or virtualizations of espolio images, public archives, finally of the various measures that the PRR envisages, I would like to bring today the transformative effect of this public investment—because it is a public investment—in culture, in society, in the economy, in territories, in the lives of Portuguese and the various actors and agents of culture. Rehabilitation of heritage, training cultural equipment, digitizing content are strategic options that will have a strong impact, from the outset, on the strengthening of the market for cultural goods and services, on employment, on wider, decentralized and democratic access to culture, art, heritage, on the creation of new publics, on the competitiveness of urban networks, on the economic, social and institutional sustainability of low-density territories, finally on national cohesion. Otherwise, we see: there is no heritage rehabilitation without architects, no craftsmen, no specialized artists; there is no digital transition without authors, no directors, no producers, no sound technicians, no stage and light designers. Strengthening connectivity and digitisation is, at the same time, a necessary condition for the preservation of cultural goods for the future, but they are also incentives for network work. This networked work can allow a set of new similarities between different institutions, introducing new modes of organization, circulation, programming and dissemination of artistic content between different equipments and thus revitalizing an already fragile sector due to all the situation that was experienced, particularly with the pandemic. Mr Minister, this activation of people and institutions will thus have a huge impact on national territory, on territorial attractiveness, on the establishment of people, through cultural projects in different territories, businesses, on the increase in demand, mainly through technological skills, artistic in several areas of economic activity. Mr Minister, on this I would like to ask you a question: the PRR is a whole, cannot be viewed Atomically in parts, has a background vision, an integrative strategy. The reforms and investments envisaged in each component of culture, in conjunction with other components, such as education, innovation and the economy, will certainly be the key to success. Mr Minister, I ask you how you see and think about these synergies and complementarities, between the various components of the RPP and the component of culture, in view of the objectives that are defined for them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u105	Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members, Minister, this is not the Porto Business School, nor any website. We are in Parliament, the Socialist Party marked this debate because there was something I had to answer to. Therefore, Minister, it is your obligation, when you come here, to answer questions, whether from the PCP, the Left Block, the CDS, the PSD. But don't answer anything, as usual! That says a lot about the respect you have for Parliament or, perhaps, about what you do not want to explain about the folder you have in your hand, with which, in fact, you have been reading for many years, even during PSD governments. Mr. Minister doesn't even hesitate to bite his hand when he talks about the past. The Minister is, above all, someone who has been the executioner of various Community funds programmes — it is good to remember this! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Minister, you say you invited companies to attend, but you don't clarify. The major problem of Community funds in their mandate is the lack of predictability and timing. We want to know when the warnings come out, what predictability is. It is not inviting some companies and then inviting others! ...Minister, this has always been the criticism we made you, because it doesn't work! He says he doesn't value the money he puts on investments. You are, Mr Minister, perhaps you do not appreciate it, but the Socialist Party and its government are doing only that. They spent six years talking about the money they put in the State Budget to justify their priorities, but then, as Mrs. Filipa Roseta said, they don't spend, they don't invest, they don't run. That's the Socialist Party's reality in the past year! Mr Minister, what I wanted to say to you is very simple: this PRR is a kind of son of the captivitys of Mário Centeno, because it is basically an amalgam of investments that have to be made, of money that remains to be used. We want to know whether it is guaranteed that some of these investments, which require public spending, will have resources in the State budget to continue to finance and exist. Can you assure us that you will not replace the State's expenditure with Community funds in this case of the RPP? What remains in our feeling is that Portugal, above all, loses an opportunity to transform, loses an opportunity to change, because what will be done is just to improve a little bit the country that has less helped businesses and people. That's the chance we're losing! I assure you, Minister, that we are going to make a victorious and constructive opposition, because the money is not from the PS, the PRR is not from the PS. The PRR arrives in Portugal thanks, unfortunately, to a catastrophe that has killed many people. Therefore, for every euro that will be invested, we must think about the people who have suffered so that we can have this opportunity. [[PSD applause.]] Neither vaccines, nor money, nor any of that belongs to the Socialist Party! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u107	Mr Nelson Silva, from the NAP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the issue today, we cannot help but give voice to what has been an unacceptable retreat from a long path of conquests in the field of human rights. Neutrality does not rhyme with human rights! Neutrality does not rhyme with LGBTI rights (Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex)! Neutrality is all but necessary in relation to the violations currently taking place in Hungary. It is therefore not acceptable for us to take refuge under the shield of diplomacy. That is not the position of the NAP, that is not the position of our society and that must not be the position of Portugal in the European and international bodies that it integrates. Turning to today's issue, it was with some surprise that we heard Mr. Prime Minister say that we have a good record in the management of European funds and that the level of fraud and irregularities in this matter is generally low. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these statements can only be from those who live in an alternative reality. Question : What history should we be proud of? the history of OLAF ( European Anti-Fraud Agency ), which tells us that between 2015 and 2019 under the Structural Funds for agriculture, Portugal was the eighth largest country in the European Union as a result of fraud and irregularities? Is this history that we should be proud of? What history did Mr. Prime Minister speak of? of the one who tells us that one of the chronic problems facing our country is that of the manifest inability of the proper implementation of European funds, which is evident, for example, in the multiannual financial framework 2014 - 2020, where only a little more than EUR 14 billion has been executed, i.e. an execution of only 58 %? What history did Mr. Prime Minister speak of? of the one who tells us that Portugal has failed to play a full part in the involvement of civil society in the implementation of the European funds, which leads to the fact that in Eurobarometer data it is said that only 38 % of Portuguese claim to have knowledge of projects co-financed by the European Union in their region and that only 12 % claim that these funds have brought about an improvement in their daily lives? The problems associated with the management and implementation of the European funds are clear and we cannot and must not put them under the carpet. The risks of fraud and irregularities are there for those who want to see them, running to the risk of getting worse with the way the government is taking, with the blessing of the PSD: to ease the control mechanisms of the Court of Auditors ; to create new control mechanisms, which most seem to be a Tower of Babel that wants to be a control simulation ; and, whatever is on the top of the cake, to provide in the Stability Programme a cut in the expenses of the sovereign bodies in the order of 264 million euros, which will naturally cover the Court of Auditors. The NAP has worked in this area, either by setting up a transparency portal for the management of European funds, or by introducing transparency measures in green hydrogen business, but it is necessary to go further and understand how far the government is willing to go. Are they available to approve the NAP proposal, following the good example of other countries, to create a citizen assembly which, with a citizen audit logic, ensures the existence, within the framework of the governance model of the European funds allocated to Portugal, through the Recovery and Resilience Plan, of a mechanism with monitoring and control powers, composed of citizens without affiliation in parties or political associations? Will they prevent the 2022 budget from cutting EUR 264 million to the sovereign bodies? Will they ensure that the next budget of the Court of Auditors can have an adequate and modern information management system capable of responding to the challenges of the bazouca? But more than talking about the general problems of management and execution, it is important to talk about the specific options of the PRR.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u109	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u110	If there are some proposals that are consistent with the proposals made by the NAP for economic and social transition, including the commitment to digitalisation or energy efficiency, this is a plan that, in environmental matters, falls far short of the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u111	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u112	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows, but it's good to repeat, that the culture sector was the first to confine and will be the last to get out of the pandemic. And after a year with a desert of answers and a lot of promises, what do we have, Minister? I recall that in September 2020 the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for and recommended that Member States allocate no less than 2 % of the RPP to cultural and creative industries. The PSD repulsed this excellent measure here in Parliament and, surprisingly, it was adopted with the votes against the Socialist Party. Curiously, following this moment, there was an open letter, made by cultural professionals, addressed to Mr. Prime Minister to whom he responded with great lightness and irresponsibility. Using a football expression, Mr. Prime Minister « shot at the corner ». Interestingly, when the first version of the PRR was presented, there was no line on culture. The fact is that the Government has been forced to withdraw and, although our proposal has been rejected, it has won the challenge to the Government's proposal, with the Minister and the Government presenting a sum of about 250 million devoted to culture. Mr Minister, we are pleased to be right, but we think it is little. And it's little because of this 250 million, 100 million come from the digital transition, as you know — they were stolen from the economy — and 150 million go to the cultural heritage. The remaining question is only one, Minister: if we are talking about resilience, where are the people, where are the structures? How is it that this sector, which is an area that urgently needs support, will be able to maintain structures, often informal, and will be able to keep working? They do not advance stage without actors, they do not advance stage without orchestras. What's going to happen to culture in the PRR? Now they're back. It's time to go back any longer, because we don't see an answer to the culture sector. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u113	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u114	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, Portugal's accession to the European Union and access to Community funds have allowed for unequivocal progress in the country and improved the quality of life of Portuguese, and this progress has been made in several areas. In health, for example, since we have community funds, we have built and requalified hospitals throughout the country, we have created dozens of health centers and equipped our SNS (National Health Service ). In the environment, the population covered by drinking water supply increased by 70 % to more than 95 %, we value protected areas, our beaches and our rivers, we build and expand the Lisbon and Porto metro network, which serves thousands of people and we will continue this, too, in the PRR. In culture, we requalify our heritage and our identity. In education, we've improved qualifications. We made a huge leap in science. In exports, we have supported and modernized thousands of companies. In addition, in the last four years, with the support of the Community funds, we have reached records in the exports of companies and recorded economic growth above the European Union average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But on the other hand, the rigour in the management of European funds has been recognised by the European institutions, has been recognised by the European Commission and, even more recently, by the European Court of Auditors. This may be little, but the truth is that Portugal, as far as structural and cohesion funds are concerned, has never had any suspension of payments and we are of the few in Europe where this has not happened. So, yes, Portugal has a history of using funds that should be proud and not self-flag. This is a frankly positive performance that Portugal should be proud and recognised by Europe. Obviously, there is always room to improve and to do even better and better. As far as the PRR is concerned, we have reason to have hope and confidence to do even more and better, for three simple reasons: firstly, the robustness of the plan — according to the European Commission says, "it is a robust and ambitious plan"; secondly, rigour — is a plan with strong control mechanisms; and thirdly, implementing capacity — 10 % of the value of the PRR is already being launched in competitions. The PRR is already on the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, for those who say that rigor, or robustness, or capacity of execution is lacking, this is already happening. Finally, I refer to the bet on sustainability, climate transition. One of the three structuring dimensions of the RRP affects the climate transition, where Portugal has led and in which it has to continue to lead in the future. That is why I ask the Minister a question on this subject, on the basis of the Government's ambition regarding the climate transition, because there are doubts about this ambition. on our part, there is no doubt. In fact, we have a much greater ambition than other countries in the area of climate change, and I would like you to comment on this subject within the framework of the RPP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u115	Mrs. Isabel Lopes from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Portugal must concentrate on — and I quote — « cease to be a country of cohesion; it is sad to see that Portugal, with all these years of support, is still among the backward countries». The cartoon of this statement is that it comes from a figure that is, since 2019, European Commissioner with the paste of cohesion and reforms. Yes, it is a pity to continue among the more backward countries in Europe, but this is due to policies, and only to socialist policies. The PRR should consolidate instruments of rebalancing and ordination of the territory, but in fact, and contrary to propaganda by the government, the PRR little or nothing will contribute to the much needed territorial cohesion, risking becoming another missed opportunity to transform Portugal into a more balanced, more coherent and therefore fairer country. The three axes of the « babauca» point mainly to the coast, favouring, in an unacceptable way, the metropolitan areas of the port and, essentially, that of Lisbon. We already know that these are the most densely populated areas in the country, but with the policies of these sê-CLs they will be increasingly, alongside an ever-populated interior. There is an axis missing, we call it this way in this PRR, which points to the appreciation of the interior. In propaganda, this PRR promotes the recovery and resilience of the economy and society and promises territorial cohesion. Beyond propaganda, there remains only the disappointment of more hollow promises, more vain expectations, more a statement of intentions without practical concreteization, more a missed opportunity that we cannot accept. Mr Minister, when can we « go to the bank », as Mr Prime Minister says? When can we "go to the bank" and direct this money towards an effective investment within the country? Are we still in time, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u117	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also come back to a question from the previous round, asked by Mrs Isabel Pires, on the question of some investments that were the subject of a mechanism that we have created under the State budget law for this year. It was a mechanism to anticipate funds to finance the start-up of projects financed by the PRR and also by the REACH-EU initiative ( Cohesion Recovery Assistance and the Territories of Europe ). These are projects that have been able to start up for preparatory phases and have benefited from interim funding, if you want, that will later be integrated into the PRR. But these are not projects that were registered in the State Budget this year and that will then be financed or refinanced by the PRR. No, on the contrary, they are PRR projects for which the funds were anticipated so that they could be removed. A typical case is that of housing, which had an advance, if you want, of money worth around EUR 23 million, which corresponded to local housing strategies, which were already on the ground. In total, EUR 123 million has already been transferred through this anticipation mechanism to their beneficiaries and will now be regularised under the RPP. So you don't have to confuse that. In fact, what I have said, when I come across countries that have very high expenses in the first few years—such as our Spanish neighbor, who has a rate of execution of PRR of 30 % or 35 % in the first year—is that the Portuguese PRR does not have that very high rate of expenditure in the first year precisely because it is marked by the additionality of funds. In other words, it is to finance new projects that are not registered in it, i.e. the PRR does not serve to finance projects that were already registered in the State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue raised by Mrs Rosário Gambôa, on culture, and also taking advantage of it to answer Mr Paulo Rios, who also raised questions on the same subject, in fact, I always said that we were available to start an extended hearing process. He always said that we were available for an extended hearing process, if necessary with consequence. We do not have complexities to review our options according to the hearing process and to recognize that sometimes we have to correct some of the options we have made. That's what we did about culture, that's what we did about the sea,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and these options do not result in any recognition of less rigour with which we had made the first options. We recognize, yes, the advantages of having an open and democratic process of hearing, with the consequence that often does not happen with this kind of public participation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So here is an example of how things should be conducted. Unfortunately, this is not always the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u119	After thanking Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u120	Mr. Deputy, you understand how to understand. I have already told you that it does not cause us any discomfort or any complex to review our initial options. Therefore, on the question of culture, Mrs Rosário Gambôa stressed here a reading that should be made of the PRR, which is an integrated and intelligent reading: an amount was entered for culture with the label of culture, with the designation « culture ». But this does not mean that culture does not also have expression, it does not also have resources that can go to seek other components of the PRR. I give two examples: we have a measure that will re-equipate, which will renew, which will re-qualify vocational and technical education. And within this technical and professional teaching, there is artistic education, such as the teaching of music, which has beautiful schools. Look, you have beautiful schools in the country! Did you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u121	I knew it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u122	But it is said that the PRR does not support the interior, which is not true. When it is said that a measure of qualification and competence does not target the interior, this is not true, because we will also support, and with great pleasure, the requalification of the Mirandela School of Artistic and Musical. And we do it with great pleasure, because that school has great success, attracts students from all over the North. So when you have fast readings... that doesn't have to have the label of the territory. Second example: on Monday, we opened a contest — another! — to promote higher education in areas such as science, technology, mathematics, so-called STEM areas ( Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) and also arts. So here's another area where we're going to favor culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, due to a manifest lack of time, I would now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Planning to answer questions relating to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u123	For lack of answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u124	Although there is little time left, then I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State of Planning, Ricardo Pinheiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, housing in the Recovery and Resilience Plan is, in fact, one of the most important components — component C2 - Housing — which we believe has had a very rigorous model of follow-up. In fact, the first milestone to be fulfilled in component C2 was precisely the approval of the decree-law that regulates the National Stock Exchange of Urgent and Temporary Housing. in the same way, the 60 Local Habitat Strategies may be provided for the allocation of 590 fires, covering 34 families in Portugal. It is, in fact, one of the measures that certainly focuses more on social support and also reflects the way in which the component itself is robust in a model that lacks relevant social justice. It was also adopted by the European Commission itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u126	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The challenges caused by the pandemic are enormous and the response to this pandemic will be crucial to how we will emerge from the economic and social crisis we are going through. Months of announcements on the so-called 'European bazouca' culminated in the presentation of a very different recovery and resilience plan. I said that last week, but in this debate it is even more pressing to say that public investment is an essential engine of economic growth. However, after the various answers from the Minister, it does not seem to us that this is exactly what we are watching with the PRR. It is important to look at certain areas considered as mobilising agendas or with another pompous name that you want to give it. Firstly, with regard to energy efficiency and the fight against energy poverty on 22 June, the Government, with the presence of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Planning, had an action to disseminate and launch some PRR programmes, including energy efficiency, which had already advanced part of the candidatures. It was then said that, for residential buildings alone, the PRR will make 300 million euros available. Apparently, this is good. It would be good, but when we look at the Programme better we realize that the most sure thing is that this money does not reach those who actually suffer from energy poverty. On the one hand, 130 out of 300 million will be spent through the so-called 'checks' or 'values-efficiency' already announced, with a forecast of 100 000 checks, although the allocation criteria are not known, but even if they are attributed to vulnerable aggregates, that is not enough. And that is not what we say, says the Government, on page 32 of the Energy Poverty Strategy, where it admits that in our country there will be about 700,000 people in severe poverty. So it's not enough. On the other hand, the remaining value of these 300 million is based on the Sustainable Building Support Programme, whose regulation makes it clear that we are facing an anti-invoice programme, i.e. the person has the expense with the window or thermal insulation and is then reimbursed by 85 %. The question remains: is this really to combat energy poverty? A quick search allows you to realize that, for example, with the exchange for efficient windows within the required parameters, with minimum dimensions and a number of only four, the value can be around the 550 €. A family that depends little more than the minimum wage, for example, will have a very difficult choice to make. Therefore, the size of the population with lower incomes cannot make this type of expenditure, so it is excluded from the measure. Again, the great announcements must be well explained when, after that, they do not correspond to a need for which the Left Block has warned: the need to combat energy poverty. Another relevant area is that of health, and here our concern is also great. As always, we have heard health professionals, also about these ads, and there are well-founded fears that such counterpart or conditionalisms are part of the exchange currency for the coming of the PRR in health projects. But let's go somewhere. On the one hand, we are still talking about more equipment, necessary and important, but we are not talking about more professionals. Now, since there can be no reinforcement of professionals with the PRR, what in the area of health is a central point, then what will happen to new means and equipment? Who's gonna operate them? Is everything going to be later contracted with the privates or will it be fully privatized? What is going to happen and how is it that, without professionals, these new equipment will be used? On the other hand, in the documents, first hidden and then disclosed, where the Government commits itself to a series of measures to access the PRR, the following is read in the health area: « Update of reference networks for the various hospital specialities, the reconfiguration of hospital service portfolios and the strengthening of the metropolitan emergency organization model ». This model of metropolitan urgency, whenever presented, involves the closure of existing hospital emergencies, and the reconfiguration of the service portfolio, whenever placed on the table, is to concentrate certain specialities in just a few hospitals. Therefore, the Government must state what these commitments are made with the Commission. Knowing the European counterparts as we know, what assurances can the Government give that this reorganization will not, in fact, be detrimental to the National Health Service which, on the contrary, needs to continue to strengthen it? Thirdly, in the area of care, if the year 2020 taught us something was that in Portugal, particularly in the care of the elderly, the model fails, which should lead the State and society to equalize another model. The PRR could and should be the opportunity to make this assessment, but the choice was not that. It is EUR 92 million from the PRR to, it is said, innovate responses, rehabilitate and license homes that have been outside the system. This does not add capacity to the country in this area. This legalizes what was previously not legal and that was identified during the pandemic, but does not necessarily create an increase in the response, nor even a different answer. We therefore believe that the construction of a new model, based on public policies, would be necessary, as it would have been necessary to take advantage of the PRR to make this change. That is not the option that the Government has taken and we cannot fail to register. Therefore, only in these three areas do we see the following: firstly, that the announcements are more pompous than the reality demonstrates; secondly, that there is no effective addition of public investment, and the answer that Mr. Minister gave to the question we initially put proves this; and that, with the PRR, the serious problems identified in health, care, housing, energy poverty will not have a resolution for themselves, but only a mitigation. Having been said by several people, several times, that the PRR is an opportunity that cannot, unfortunately, be lost in fundamental matters of our lives and that involve serious and robust public investment, it seems that this opportunity may have been lost, and that will not be acceptable at the time of recovery of the crisis we are going through. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u128	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP. [[Pause.]] Mr Nelson Silva is not present in the Chamber, so Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u129	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : I welcome the initiative to set the debate on the Recovery and Resilience Plan, a matter of utmost importance, of the greatest opportunity and of great concern to the Portuguese. With the COVID-19 pandemic to deeply affect the economy, the proposal submitted by the European Commission and approved by the European Council in July 2020 requires a significant strengthening of the financial package to be made available to the Member States, complementing the European Union's multiannual financial framework with a new extraordinary recovery instrument, the NextGenerationEU, which integrates the RPP funds. The Government has always stated, until exhaustion, that the PRR aimed to support the sectors most affected by COVID-19, whether public, social or business, being a crisis response program. However, between hearings in the Assembly of the Republic and debates, we find that the PRR presented by the Government is, after all, a structural instrument inserted into the Portugal 2030 strategy. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, over the last 15 months, the PSD has presented a set of proposals and suggestions for Portugal, in an emergency situation with a view to economic recovery, and the Strategic Programme of the European Funds, all until October 2020, after broad participation and deep reflection. The PSD reaffirms that the focus of economic policy must be the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, based on structural reforms that have long been required by the country. The PRR of the Government is a plan that did not involve civil society, which has little to do with the so-called « Costa e Silva plan » and which, not based on a clear diagnosis of the bottlenecks of the economy and competitiveness, is not a credible plan to transform the Portuguese economy, is not linked with Portugal 2030, is much state and little economy. It is essentially a list of projects that have not been implemented in the last five years because of the lack of public investment by the Government of the Socialist Party, and, in the assessments that have been made so far by independent entities, does not produce the necessary convergence of the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u131	We now understand, and also the Portuguese, the Government's refusal to conduct the public discussion of the PRR in parallel with Portugal 2030, allowing an integrated reading of investment priorities and, above all, of its financial dimension, as recently defended in this House by Ms. Minister of Cohesion, Ana Abrunhosa. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have found the Government intertwined between a Portugal 2020 which cannot execute — we still have EUR 10 billion at our disposal — and a Portugal 2030 that we do not know. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u132	The government, trapped in its labyrinth, holds both hands to the lifeboat, the PRR, an ambivalent plan. In short, the PPR is what the Government and PS want it to be, an instrument of financing their political agenda in the name of a pretense ideal for the country and of maintaining power, supported by a strategy that is that of the media agenda for the management of expectations. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PRR has just been approved by the European Commission and immediately began the race: Mr Prime Minister wants to go to the bank; Mr Alexandra Leitão congratulates the millions for the modernisation of the Public Administration ; part of the grants for 2021 are already intended, the metro in Lisbon and the port metro ; and the President of the Republic came to say "no political crises or budgets dropped by 2023 not to put the PRR in question". It's the state of art we have. By faith in the implementation of the PRR and in that if everything will develop as planned, even with the aid of Portugal 2020 and Portugal 2030, despite the multiplier effect, the Portuguese economy will grow to 2025 much less, in real terms, than our main competitors: less than 2 % in 2025, in real terms! [[PSD applause.]] This small growth is explained only by the absence of structural reforms in the Portuguese economy and by the danger that, as already mentioned, the RPP funds are used to finance objectives, usually through Budget, the so-called budgeting, which rhymes with captivating, which UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) has already pointed out. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u133	However, since the RPP's funds are available from Portugal, it is necessary for the Mission Structure « Recover Portugal » to launch notices for applications essential to the implementation of European Union funds, with the transparency required in the timing of notices and procedures. In the face of the doubts and concerns of the PSD and Portuguese, the Government will be tempted to present work done, such as the notice already issued this week for higher education institutions, amounting to EUR 252 million. It is true, but it was wrong in terms of transparency to confer — and I quote — « the evaluation and monitoring of projects above to a high-level panel, benefiting, where necessary, from the support of external experts ». So, Minister Nelson de Souza, the famous centralized mission unit « Recover Portugal », your crown jewel, didn't have this responsibility? Oh, my God! Are we already beginning to duplicate structures and dilute responsibilities? Oh, my God! The year 2023 will assess the performance of the government's political action. Mutatis mutandis will also be good or bad implementation of the European funds and the PRR. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u134	Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u135	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Jorge Mendes, first of all, we must remind the Democratic Social Party that this is not a plan of the Socialist Party, this is the plan of the Portuguese Government, this is the plan of our country and it is the plan we have to recover our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD is a party full of contradictions, an orphaned party of austerity and to go beyond the troika, a party that is orphaned by the cuts of public services and the cut in incomes. [[PSD protests.]] This is the main difference in the response to the crisis that you don't tend to take. Your problem is we won't be responding with austerity. Then I wanted to remind you that the contradictions and zigzags of the PSD on this subject are so many, but so many, that they are normal. Just look at what the PSD has done in other crisis response matters: one day, it defends that the borders with the English are open; the next day, it defends that the same borders are closed. This is the zighuzag that the PSD does in so many other matters and that it could only do so in the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD, in the area of PRR, as in so many other subjects, only what popular culture calls « sun in the air and rain in the nabal. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Jorge Mendes, I would like to ask you a number of questions: what alternatives does the PSD have for this PRR? What concrete alternatives does the PSD present for this issue? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u136	How does the PSD respond to the European Commission's praise, which is even led by someone from Mr. Deputy's political family, that 10 of the 11 PRR criteria are of excellence? How does PSD respond to these criticisms? We know that it is difficult to stand in opposition and criticize a plan that the European Commission commends, but I would like to know the PSD version on this matter. But I recognize Mr Deputy's ability and serenity for analysis, and I therefore ask him: how many times does the PSD talk about overstatement? Do you agree with the excess state? Mr. Deputy was a recognized author of our country. Do you really think we're overstated? Does the PSD disagree with the EUR 3000 million for housing? Discourse of EUR 1, EUR 6 billion for sustainable mobility, or disagreement of key health carriers or social support? Finally, with two very simple questions. First of all, the honourable Member spoke about transparency. He is well aware of the process of the Public Contracts Code and how he has worked in this Assembly of the Republic. Does the PSD here not assume its responsibilities for transparency in this matter, or does it not know, when it comes to support for companies, that EUR 5000 million, which is the affected value, is a much higher value than it was budgeted in the Recovery and Resilience Plan that the PSD presented? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u137	Mr. Jorge Mendes, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u138	Mr President, I thank Mr Hugo Costa for the various questions he has asked me. Mr Deputy, who scheduled this debate on the PRR, was the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u139	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u140	We know what was going on there, but it was a debate scheduled by the Socialist Party and we were waiting for the Minister here today to clarify us more than what is in the papers, which unfortunately did not happen at the various hearings of the Committee on Economic Affairs. In the end, we always have a hand full of nothing, because, moreover, the Minister repeatedly does not respond objectively and clearly to the questions posed by the various interventions of the opposition. The Minister always tells us: "You have your options, you do the reading that you understand," but that is not what we expect from a minister in these debates. We hope that, in the face of the relevant criticisms and doubts, it will respond to the concerns of those who put them, but above all Portuguese. At the end of this debate nothing adds to what comes in the social communication and to what is in the role, nothing adds to the proposals that Mr Minister has put before us. With regard to the questions asked by Mr Hugo Costa there is one that seems to me like La Palice, when he says that in the evaluation of our PRR, of our document—which was made by an experienced team, by people who do this normally—it was not expected that he had 10 or 11 "excellent" in all the criteria. I think it was! In fact, no one makes such a document so as not to have an "excellent" classification in all the criteria. It would be very bad for the government to present a document of this dimension not to take such care. Therefore, in the beginning, the classification of 'excellent' or'very good' is almost always guaranteed. All of us in this field know what this is like. But I should be concerned, for example, about the evaluation of our RPP, not of the document itself, but of some expectation, particularly regarding the growth of the economy. Indeed, there are a number of institutions in which I have many doubts that the impact of PRR and Portugal 2030 — and Portugal 2020 — on our economy is desirable to achieve levels of convergence with the European Union as we wish, especially with the countries that are our main competitors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u141	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u142	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal was the first country to present the Recovery and Resilience Programme and the essential of its work is done. A highly positive and difficult approval, contrary to what the honourable Member has suggested now, but which has given room for the PRR to be already on the ground. But the dimension that I now want to highlight is what the PRR can contribute to improving the lives of Portuguese people, particularly in access to health care. And being primary health care the entry door of the National Health Service, they will obviously have an investment reinforcement to improve national coverage and provide the family health units with more answers - as an example, with more dental medicine offices and equipment for basic life support-, but there will also be an extension of the National Palliative Care Network, with more thousand places and ten community teams, and the construction of 96 new health units, from then on to replace the units that are already inadequate. And it also deserves special attention to the dimension of the completion of mental health reform, because this being, as we all know, is absolutely necessary. We know that the response taken in this Recovery Plan is very comprehensive and cross-sectional, going through the various levels of care delivery: primary care, hospital care, continued care and mental health. But I also wanted to highlight the concern about decentralization and articulation with the authorities, benefiting, contrary to what has already been suggested here, the interior territories,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to mitigate the asymmetries that, unfortunately, fear to survive. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, now for the most unbelievers: make it clear that nothing is hidden. I remember that everything is published, everything is inspected, which makes it easier for the future to audit and control the implementation of the PRR. For now, Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, we can only congratulate you and wish you the greatest success in implementing this Plan. We'll be here to monitor him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is faced, at the same historical moment, with old problems, which stem from always being the same policies, with few nuances, those practiced in these tens of years by PS, PSD and CDS, and with the consequences of an epidemic never imagined and which has been brought about. The PS brings the debate today one of the instruments that the Government has at its disposal to respond to the second part of the problem, the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot answer the second without answering the first. That is, the Recovery and Resilience Plan has generated a lot of expectation in the country, for citizens and for companies. However, with this plan submitted to the European Union's ties, it is not expected that an effective recovery of the country will be initiated, nor will it become the most resilient country. The PRR can become one more lost opportunity and can result in an irreversible mistake, rather than effectively reverse the lines, trends and options of the past, starting from the national production and consumption, making the country less dependent on the outside, either in terms of supply of products or tourism, such as the particular case of the Algarve, which lives, above all, of mass tourism, which has felt and continues to feel supermanent in economic terms. The diversification of activities is decisive in a region such as the Algarve, with support from its endogenous resources, the fisheries sector or traditional agriculture. However, this does not seem to have been a priority of the PRR. The Algarve cannot be just the sun that was covered by the storm of the COVID-19, it is necessary to create resilience to other unpredictable clouds that may arise. The Greens consider that the PRR is based on a model that will continue to accentuate the differences between the coast and the interior and between the urban and rural areas, where it is clear that there is a perpetual disinvestment in the interior of the country, as it is visible, for example, at the level of public transport, where there is no real and significant investment perspective to expand the supply of the network, to ensure a fundamental right of citizens, which is, in particular, on the basis of access to other rights such as health, culture, justice, leisure, education and the right to the environment and quality of life. The PRR, although it is not a Cohesion Plan, for the values and resources involved, should correspond and contribute to bringing the various regions of the country closer together, but falls above all on metropolitan areas, and it is unlikely that the measures and applications of the PRR will arrive fairly to the various regions of the country. Will cities such as Vinhais, Penedono, Baião, Pampilhosa da Serra, Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo, Arraiolos or Alvito benefit both from the PRR and any of the municipalities in the metropolitan areas of Porto or Lisbon? The pandemic showed hidden poverty bags in the metropolitan areas, some of it structural and generational. However, poverty is so little exclusive to urban centers, it is a cross-sectional reality throughout the country. Recent data reveal that the pandemic has thrown more than 400 000 people into poverty, exacerbating the gap between the rich and the poor. Will micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have the same opportunities and the same means of access to the PRR as most of the large companies that are already in front of the digital transition and have placed themselves on feet to try to keep most of the investment? In view of the availability of resources and financial means, the Government should have given a full response to social equipment, particularly for the elderly. However, it seems that it is not yet that the conditions for the necessary structural response will be created in the provision of such care, the responsibility of which must be primarily the State. With regard to health care, although the PRR is involved in important measures and investments, many of which have long been required by the Greens—for example, at the level of primary health care, mental health—and which fall late, it is necessary to effectively create conditions in order to ensure that such improvements are not only material, but that the SNS is strengthened with human resources, contracted in a stable way. This little or nothing plan addresses the issues of work and workers. There is nothing about the need to strengthen and guarantee their rights and the fight against precariousness. Rather, this digital model will produce thousands of excluded info, in particular the older ones, and push them into unemployment situations. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another plan that leaves much to be desired as regards responses to environmental problems: vague ideas and objectives, sub-financing in key measures, lack of impact assessment. As much as the PS wants to show here facts it does not have, the problem is whether the acronym PRR will not be the acronym of a rehabilitation and retardation plan: reallocation of means for the same as the usual ones and delay of the crisis, which will be inevitable if we do not change course and change priorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u145	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP reaffirms and underlines something essential in this discussion. For the CFP, a development programme needs to adopt short-, medium- and long-term measures aimed at the recovery of wages; combating unemployment; replacing imports by national production; combating the country's structural deficits; addressing the problem of public debt by economic growth, with a reduction in its weight relative to GDP and pointing to its renegotiation; assuming that public investment should be set at a benchmark of not less than 5 % of GDP; building infrastructure that has been under way for decades, integrated into a national development strategy; putting environmental, territorial and social balance as inseparable elements for national and inseparable development of wage policy, distribution of production in the territory, public services network and transport and logistics communication routes. These objectives require a wide range of policy options, guidelines, programmes and projects, which cannot be reduced to the RPP and which should mobilise the various instruments available from the State budgets to the Community funds, with around EUR 60 billion which are set for the coming years, without forgetting the possibility of using external funding, taking advantage of the low interest rates. The country needs answers that are not only consistent with options that are registered in the PRR as they are far beyond their indisputable limits. It should be warned that the reindustrialisation of Europe cannot be achieved on account of an even greater deindustrialisation of our country. The idea of the PRR as a country's lifeline is an illusion and it only confirmed the degree of submission and dependence with which it must be broken. We are talking about resources that, once again underlining, are essentially the anticipation of future revenues that Portugal will lose later and that, contrary to what has been said, ensure the direct transfer of billions of euros to the economic groups, which add up to the billions of public investments that will be realized by the private sector. And to those who in this House and out there are repeating the demand of the economic groups of more money from the PRR for their own safes, it is important to ask, by looking at the profits feast and dividends to shareholders, so many times decapitalizing companies, sending the money out of the country instead of investing and still saying that what is needed now is to transfer public to pay private profits: even more, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! In addition, it is nevertheless significant that the Government has increased this direct transfer from the RPP to the economic groups by more than EUR 300 million to a total of EUR 5 billion. The alerts and concerns, which are relevant and should be heard, on the conditions and capacity of the State and public sector structure for the effective and timely implementation of the Structural Funds, cannot be the alibi for draining public resources or for delivering the future in outsourcing. The response begins with the investment in the reconstruction of own capacities, including for strategic planning, direction and direct follow-up in the performance of functions and investments to be guaranteed by the State and the public sector. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The so-called recovery and resilience plan is neither worth the name nor an end in itself, it must truly be a policy and strategic planning tool that responds to the country's problems, needs and potential. The technocrats in Brussels may be satisfied and consider that all this is guaranteed, but our criteria are others. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u147	Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u148	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The pandemic that Portugal and the World have gone through has shown to satiety how important it is for people to live in a social state. And it is part of the idea of a social state a strong public administration adapted to the challenges of the present and the future. The digital and generational transition required by the state machine requires investment. The private economy requires investment in the Public Administration in order to have faster and more effective responses; the private economy needs public investment in order to leverage the services and works it performs; the employment, public and private, needs investment in the Public Administration and needs investment from the Public Administration. Those who today criticize the option of guiding a part of the PRR to improve and speed up the state machine are the same ones that will come here tomorrow to require better public services,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... are exactly the same ones that will come here tomorrow require more public investment in works and acquisition of services, as a way to dynamize the economy and private companies. Those who today criticize the option of guiding a part of the PRR to improve and speed up the state machine are the same as they said yesterday the opposite, today they say their reverse and tomorrow they will return to the criticisms of forever. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The Portuguese have already become accustomed to hearing the right to say one thing when they are in opposition and doing another when they are in government. The Portuguese begin to get used to hearing the PSD say something here, in the Assembly, and dissipate on the twitter of their leader next. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u149	Do not count on PS to invest in the social state, do not count on PS to invest in the economy, do not count on PS to stop fighting for Portugal's recovery in all its domains. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The first PRR to be approved in Europe was Portuguese, the warnings are coming out and the state and companies will be able to take the best advantage of this unique opportunity to transform Portugal. Because there is no doubt that investment in the public sector and public sector investment through the PRR are essential to leverage the economy as a whole and the private economy in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u150	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one more Member and it is from the same party as the speaker who just spoke, which is Mr Fernando José. I wonder if there is any more party that still has time and wants to sign up, so that there is an alternance and two Members do not speak "Frando" consecutively. There are no other inscriptions, after Mr Fernando Paulo, you have the floor Mr Fernando José of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u151	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: On the basis of the diagnosis of needs and challenges, the Recovery and Resilience Plan was organized into 20 Components, which, in turn, comprise a total of 37 Reforms and 83 Investments, which go beyond EUR 16 billion funding and in which education is assigned a relevant role in this joint effort that all of us call on and in which the authorities will be fundamental partners in the design and implementation of the measures and projects that in the next decade will re-qualify our councils for the future that is coming, full of opportunities. The measures provided for in the Recovery and Resilience Plan for Education thus reflect the country's commitment to its students, preparing them as best possible for a rapidly changing world, in which skills development is the decisive factor for its success in the labour market and as citizens. To this end, about a billion euros will be invested only in the fields of education, in five strategic aspects: for economic and social recovery and resilience, with a view to increasing the digital skills of the population to respond to the progressive digitisation of society, employment and the economy; modernising vocational education and enhancing the offers of dual certification to create 20,000 new vacancies per year; extending the Network of Living Science Clubs to the entire school network; encouraging adult literacy, mobilizing more than 30,000 adults for the education and training system; encouraging sport practice and the adoption of healthy lifestyles. For this purpose, an investment of EUR 500 million is planned for the Digital School, which will, for example, enable all schools in the public network with high quality internet; install 1300 digital education laboratories in schools; provide and produce more and better digital resources and educational content. Under the Qualifications and Skills component, an investment of EUR 480 million in vocational education is envisaged, which will enable the installation and/or modernisation of more than 365 Specialized Technology Centres throughout the country by 2025, thus breaking territorial inequalities and enabling the local economy. This is not therefore the time for protest policy to protest, this is the time to act, united and in consensus, at a unique opportunity that everyone calls us to the future that is coming. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u152	With no more « Fernandos » inscribed, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very telegraphic way and in the few seconds that remain, I still have to do the same as the opposition did here today, i.e. not say much or even get to be more substantive than VV. Ex. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] I wanted to leave this note in the very short time I have: resilience and recovery, resilience achieved by this government in the last five years, with rigour and with good accounts,... [[PSD protests.]] ...and, in conclusion, Mr President, recovery for which the Portuguese entrust to this government, under the leadership of Antonio Costa, who, at the time we were leading Europe, achieved the historical envelope of structural reforms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I end with a note: we have an opposition that does not want to see, does not want to hear, does not want to know, but no opposition will stop the recovery of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u154	We shall then move on to the end of the debate. Mr. José Luís Carneiro, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In response to the opposition to the lack of transparency of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the Commission underlined the intense work of national teams and the ongoing process of participation of citizens and institutions, which reinforces the political contract established between them and the Government. Moreover, the mechanisms of control, implementation, detection and combating conflict of interest, fraud and corruption, together with decentralization, are assessed with a maximum rating and seen as crucial factors of the Plan presented by Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More than putting incision and suspicion into the public space, we have a duty to contribute to a culture and a spirit of responsibility with democracy and with institutions. The indicators show that our journey has been made on the right track. If we looked at GDP per capita in euro ( based on 2016 ), we found that in 1995 it was EUR 880 and in 2019 it was EUR 20 780 ; if we met GDP per capita at constant prices, we had EUR 14 475 in 1995 and EUR 19 780 in 2019. The minimum wage was EUR 260 in 1995 and EUR 600 in 2019. Monetary poverty and its intensity also decreased from 18, 5 % in 2005 to 16, 2 % in 2019, and the risk rate of poverty after social transfers increased from 21 % in 1995 to 16, 2 % in 2019. The Portuguese society as a whole has been making a way for the general improvement of its living conditions. For this improvement they have greatly contributed to the European funds. And they both contributed to helping the weaker regions as they were essential to train workers, to improve the indicators in health, infrastructure, in the training of institutions for innovation and the internationalization of our economy. Since it is legitimate, some statements made in recent days on the benefits of the European funds are somewhat strict. The Portuguese PRR, the first to be delivered and approved in Brussels, allocates 30 % to direct support to companies. It is about EUR 5 billion, as has already been said today, worth more than 25 % of Spain and 23 % of France. It is therefore incomprehensible that some, particularly the main opposition party, continue to say that there are no resources for companies. Contrary to what has been systematically repeated by the oppositions on the right, this is not a Plan to be absorbed by the Public Administration and the State. The Public Administration will be dedicated 7, 5 %, in an effort to improve the quality of public services. These resources are intended to incorporate innovation, knowledge and technology, and open up opportunities for the entire national scientific and technological system. The Recovery and Resilience Plan is expected to place Portugal on a growth path higher than expected before the crisis. According to estimates by the Ministry of Finance in 2026, our product could be 3, 5 % higher than it would be without the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a plan for future generations and a third of its constituent elements have a direct relationship with children and young people, as is the case with strengthening pre-school education and stimulating quality employment for younger people, to which investment in education, health, transport and mobility is combined. The policy measures related to the climate transition and the digital transition are also evaluated with a maximum rating, seen as decisive and lasting factors for the modernization of the state, companies and for the modernization of our society. Reformist will is particularly emphasized in the areas of justice, social services, business fabric, population qualification levels and health services. On the other hand, the Commission has recognized the uniqueness of our Plan as regards the objectives of cohesion and its linkage with the goals set out at the Social Summit in Porto, in the fight against poverty, in the promotion of employment and in the training of people throughout their lives. It should also be stressed that Portugal is the fourth country in the European Union with more money for arts and culture, being this dimension associated with our model of economic and social development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u156	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we all want is that the resources of this Plan and the Plurianual Financial Framework ( QFP ) can contribute to a more agile and smarter state, a more innovative and more competitive economy and a society based on a freer, more autonomous, more responsible, more qualified, more robust and more cohesive citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-24.u158	At the conclusion of the debate requested by the PS, on the PPR, I have the cyclical task of announcing the agenda for tomorrow's session, which will take place at 10 a.m. and in which we will discuss together the following diplomas, the proposals and bills discussed in general: Proposal for a Law No 89 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1153 on the use of financial and other information for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating or repressing criminal offences; Proposal for a Law No 90 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Amend the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and related laws, implementing measures provided for in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy ; Proposal for a Law No 91 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1937 on the protection of persons who denounce violations of Union law ; Proposal for a Law No 98 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash; Bill No. 411 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Alter to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 2019 — Approves the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, amending Article 10. the, respectively, conferring the period of disgust between the exercise of governmental and public and private positions and the incompatibility of political and high public positions holders may exercise any functions or duties in undertakings with which they have negotiated by the State as holders of the protection folder they represented; Bill No. 564 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — aggravating the minimum and maximum criminal frameworks provided for in relation to crimes of passive and active corruption; Bill No. 671 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ) — Creates an Article 150. o -A in Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March ( Criminal Code, in its latest version, as amended by Law No 58 / 2020 of 31 August ) ; Bill No. 749 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ) — Revocation of residence permits for investment activity ( visasgold ) ; Bill No. 798 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Criminalization of unjustified enrichment ( Fifty-second amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March and seventh amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July ) ; Bill No. 799 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — prohibits the State from resorting to arbitration as a means of resolving disputes in administrative and fiscal matters; Bill No. 805 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates the crime of unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth ( Second amendment to the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions); Bill No. 816 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July on the extension of reporting obligations and the densification of the crime of concealment of enrichment; Bill No. 843 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Extends the reporting obligations of the holders of political positions and high public positions and creates the crime of intentional concealment of enrichment by the second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July; Bill No. 860 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — The second amendment is made to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July with a view to preventing and combating unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth; Bill No. 866 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the complainant's protection regime; Bill No. 867 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the crime of withholding profits and reviews the penalties applicable to liability crimes committed by holders of political and high public positions; Bill No. 868 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the sorry status; Bill No. 869 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The twentieth amendment is made to Law No 21 / 85 of 30 July, which approves the Statute of the Judiciary Judges, creating the crime of withholding income and unlawful enrichment and amending the conditions for the exercise of non-statutory functions ; Bill No. 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The second amendment of Law No 68 / 2019 of 27 August approving the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, creating the crime of withholding income and illicit enrichment and amending the conditions for the exercise of non-statutory functions; Bill No. 874 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Strengthens the transparency duty imposed on holders of political positions and high public positions ( second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ) ; Bill No. 875 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves measures to combat corruption and economic and financial crime by amending the Penal Code and related legislation; Bill No. 876 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-eighth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by Decree No 78 / 87 of 17 February; Bill No. 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July by extending reporting obligations and providing for mandatory communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the lack of indication of the facts that led to capital increases; Bill No. 879 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Approves the complainant’s protection status; Draft Resolution No 86 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Government involvement in the search for solutions for the end of tax havens. After the debate, there will be regular votes. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 43 minutes.]]
