ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the Sirs. Officials of the authority that open the galleries to the public. of our agenda today are three points. The first point, which was required by the CFP, consists in the general debate of Bill No. 1014 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme of protection and support for tenants. of the second point is the general discussion of the Bill No 119 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) — Regulation of the application of special contributions for the year 2022. from the third point there are statutory votes. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the file she has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 1019 / XIV / 3. a ( BE), 1020 / XIV / 3. a ( BE), 1021 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) and 1022 / XIV/ 3. a (PEV) and Resolution Projects Nos 1507 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE), 158 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ), 1509 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1510 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1511 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH), 1512 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ), 1513 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ), 1514 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ) and 1515 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u3	We will enter the first item on the agenda, which was set by the PCP, and which is generally appreciated by the Bill No. 1014 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme of protection and support for tenants. For the presentation of this bill, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP convened this debate and presented this proposal for extraordinary measures of protection and support for tenants because there are thousands and thousands of people who will be confronted with the threat of being homeless, in addition to all those to whom this is already happening or even happening. If the situation was already very serious before the COVID-19, if there were already countless people expelled from their homes and neighborhoods, left without alternative and to the mercy of real estate speculation, then with the pandemic crisis it became even more urgent to take measures to protect tenants so that they would not be left homeless in front of the social and economic impacts of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u6	Well, ladies. Members, if someone in this Chamber considers that the impacts of the pandemic are overcome, that social problems are no longer felt, that there will be no poverty situations arising from the epidemic and the decisions that can still be made, if one considers that this is already a matter solved, then ask for the word, because the discussion has to be another. It is evidence that we continue to face the indisputable need for effective responses in protecting and supporting tenants, because problems continue to make themselves felt. Moreover, we are in the immediate vicinity of an even more dramatic problem that can be struck by tens of thousands of families, elderly people, with low reforms, with the familiar "law of waste" to apply, from January onwards, to all leases prior to 1990. If so far the situation was, and is, of extreme gravity, what can happen if nothing is done is a real social emergency. We are talking about the older contracts, in which the situations of older people still prevail, more socially vulnerable — often with their lives marked by loneliness, poverty, health problems — and which, from January onwards, may have the owner to apply the "law of evictions", putting them on the street to free the house and do more profitable business.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u8	If we point out these risks and threats because of their gravity, we are not making abstract considerations without grounds, we are taking into account the concrete reality and what has happened for years in the application of this law approved by the PSD and the CDS. In the contracts under the New Urban Rent Scheme (NRAU), there are already countless cases of tenants who had to leave their homes, not because they refused to pay the rent, but because the landlord—or the real estate fund—has taken the knife and cheese in hand to denounce the contract and start charging double or triple income. The dramatic cases of people who were left homeless, single-parent families where the adult was employed, had wages, and was confronted with an exorbitant increase in income. And now they go from bags to back, from shelters to pensions, with the children having to go to school, without support or alternatives. This happened everywhere where the law of the jungle of real estate speculation is living, and only during the pandemic crisis did it happen because there were safeguard measures in the law that blocked some of these barbarities. And now that these safeguard measures come to an end and some rub their hands with the famous « contractual freedom between the parties », there is also the immediate prospect that is potentially placed on hundreds of thousands of people with leases prior to 1990. But the truth is that we are not dealing with any contractual relationship, we are not facing a supply of goods or services in the free market. We are talking about an indispensable living condition and access to a basic right which is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic. It is a question of responding to the constitutional imperative to ensure that all Portuguese have the right, for themselves and their families, to adequate housing, in conditions of hygiene and comfort and to preserve personal privacy and family privacy—Article 65. the Constitution, the same that recommends a system of income compatible with the family income. But this discussion highlights this other reality, which is indissociable from this: the extent of impoverishment of the population and the consequences of low wages. in a country where the national minimum wage, €665, is the reference value for one in four workers, and where the value of the average rent per square metre in January this year was fixed at €11, €20, the reason for the high cost of housing costs, in particular in the lowest income quintile, where the rate of effort is more than 40 %. It is urgent to increase the wages of Portuguese workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u10	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer talking about the most profound and comprehensive amendments to the Urban Rent Scheme, the numerous serious rules of the "Crist laws" which need to be corrected or repealed. This debate we had last September, with the proposal of the PCP, which maintains all fairness and currentity, but which has already been rejected when the PS, the PAN, the PSD, the CDS, the CH and the IL gave their hands to vote against our bill. What is now in issue is the immediate answer to a problem that is there at the door. And this social emergency can take on new proportions if it is not blocked or prevented. This is the opportunity that the CFP brings you with this schedule. That is the responsibility that the country demands from you with this vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u11	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration of two Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, there are two fundamental questions in this debate on housing that we have to bring here. The first is the vision of the future of a country which, within the framework of constitutional law, we want to build, with just housing, with dignity of housing and with the possibility of a person being able to have housing on his land, to be able to build his home in perfect conditions of dignity. Mr and his bench know — I know, and the PS bench also know — that in recent years we have taken significant steps in building a vision of the future and a space for the future with regard to housing. The issue of housing has gained a new political centrality — this is unquestionable — with Programmes 1. law and affordable yield and with extraordinary responses within the COVID-19 pandemic. We have made progress in what is the full right to housing citizens. There is also a second issue, that of the palliative aspect, which is to have concrete measures that respond to immediate and urgent problems, and it is essentially those which the CFP bill seeks to answer, solving these situations. But let me tell you, Mr President, that some of them leave us any doubt. The question is whether the CFP is doing an act of contribution in this debate because it has not approved some proposals here and which were also poured into the version of the State budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u14	That is why, in this debate, Mr Bruno Dias, let me tell you that I would rather not have this debate at the moment, but to have a special debate and to add to the initial proposals of the State budget the contributions that we can now make. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you know that we could have continued to give body to a basic housing law? Does the honourable Member and his bench know that they leave a very strong mark on what each of the benches wanted to defend here? We know what we stand for, others know what they want to defend. That is why, in this debate, unfortunately, what we are doing is watching an act of contribution by the CFP: some proposals that were in the State budget could have advanced and not advanced, and are now also submitted. So, honourable Member, we will be where we have always been, in the search for solutions that give more justice, more dignity and advance in housing policy in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u15	You have the floor for the second request for clarification, Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, the CFP presents to us once again a bill that distorts reality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u17	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u18	... but that has a virtue, if we can call it virtue: this bill of law is clear to show that the PCP is even an assumed enemy of the landlords. The CFP wants to extend the suspension of termination of lease contracts by 31 December 2022, i.e. whether the landlords continue to wait for the tenants who were supposed to have delivered the buildings by 2020 to surrender them at the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u20	I ask: why, Mr. Deputy? See this concrete situation: a lease, whose tenant died, imagine, on March 21, 2020. The suspension came into force on 20 March 2020 and the house is not delivered because the landlord cannot demand the termination of the contract since it is suspended until today. Therefore, the honourable Member and the CFP want you to continue to be unable to demand the delivery of an empty house, with a late tenant and whose lease has not been passed on. Tell me, Mr Bruno Dias: to whom does this measure benefit?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u21	To the dead he's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u22	Nobody in this House, I think, can understand who this protects, which recipient of protection is in the mind of the PCP within this bill? That is what we are asking you to do, Mr President : to explain it to this House, but also to all Portuguese, who are completely stunned by this measure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u23	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by thanking Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PS and Mrs Marcia Passos of the PSD for the questions they have raised. Mr Hugo Carvalho spoke about very important things: the right to housing, the vision of the future, of a developed country, of progress achieved. I leave you with only one challenge, Mr. In January, when people begin to be confronted with even more serious income liberalisation processes than is happening today, when people who are already confronted with the obligation to leave their homes—because they leave their homes, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they are going from hostels to shelters with the children behind them; and don't say that it doesn't happen, because it's not an abstraction, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen — if you look at this problem, go there, Mr Hugo Carvalho and go there. Members of the PS and PSD explain to them the progress achieved, they will talk to them about future vision, they will talk to them about the right to housing, this theory so beautiful that you bring here to offer. The problem now is to pass the law, the law which guarantees extraordinary safeguard measures, so that people, those older people, these people who live alone do not — in an even more serious and more extensive way, as could happen with contracts prior to 1990 — unprotected and in the near future of receiving the letter from the landlord. And we will not now theorize about the condition of the landlords and their heterogeneity, because, by the way, when the PSD intervenes in these discussions, it comes to light, as it was once again, that the priority of the PSD is to ensure that the tenants go to the street, and as soon as possible, having, in fact, said that they should already have gone. But we are concerned about the situation of people who are confronted with the decisions of these economic groups, of these real estate funds, for which families, children, those who live these threats are numbers on a spreadsheet. But, for us, they're not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, they are people whose rights, whose dignity and their future must be defended, and defended by measures of these. Absolutely absurd arguments, such as those brought to us by Mrs Marcia Passos, absurd hypotheses from a academic point of view, do not have any legal fit. Tell me, then, how many houses have you seen or know that they are empty because the lodger died, because the landlord has the house closed and cannot rent it because the person who was there died. And what our law now prevents the house from being rented? Oh, my God! Is this the PSD's contribution to the debate? Oh, my God! I want to leave a last word, a recommendation, for Mr. Hugo Carvalho. You don't even remember talking about the State budget, because if there is anything that has been evidenced in this whole process, it is that the last concern of you was to have a budget. From the moment Mr President of the Republic came to say that, if there were no Budget, there would be elections, you immediately dropped the Budget and told not everything that the CFP would put on the table that was urgent for the discussion of responses to the country's problems. So if you really want to solve the problems, the question is very simple: who votes in favour, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u25	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today intends to use the pandemic to impose its political agenda, normalizing what was supposed to be extraordinary, what is wrong. In the background, the PCP wants to go back to the time of frozen incomes, with the worst preservation of the buildings and without renewal of the city, which is wrong. Even the CFP must recognise that the problem of high housing prices is, above all, a problem of lack of supply in relation to demand. Now, the offer will not increase if we do not invent once and for all public land and buildings and put them to the service of housing and if we do not create conditions so that there may be more construction projects. However, construction costs have increased, especially due to the prices of materials and the lack of labour. Therefore, if the State wants to help, then do everything to lower the costs of its responsibility. As the tax burden on the sector has increased, which is close to 40 %, twice as much as in Spain. Is the PCP available to defend the reduction of this tax burden? In addition, it is essential to end legislative instability in the lease market, which leads to or does not have a lease, or to have more expensive incomes, because they incorporate what might be called a « risk premium ». I end by citation by the Court of Auditors in an audit of the measures which the PS Government, also supported here by the CFP, introduced to address the adverse impact of the pandemic on the housing sector. According to the Court of Auditors: « Of the five measures, with insufficient or incipient degree of implementation, two had no results, only one goal had one, without having reached it, and none proved effective in achieving its objective or in recovering the initial situation ». In other words, trying to remedy and treat symptoms, and bad, is not to deal with the problem. That's what the PS tried to do, and that's what the PCP also proposes to do here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by congratulating the Portuguese Communist Party on bringing this issue to discussion at the end of the legislature. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 17 February 2012, the Minister responsible for the area of the environment and housing announced, in this plenary, a reform of the lease law, which she intended, she said, to dynamize the sector. At the time, he said the Minister of Assumption Cristas : « I want to begin by giving notice of some results of the 2011 Census. These data show that around 76 % of Portuguese are owners of their housing, which compares with a European average of 60 %; they show that there are 772 000 leases, of which 33 %, of which about 255 000, are contracts prior to 1990, which are immediately covered by the bond system; they show that 70 % of the income is below 100 €; they show that 60 % of the leasers are over 65 years old; they also show that 47 % of the contracts are after the 2006 reform and that the universe of the old contracts has fallen in 10 years from 440 000 to the 255,000 ». I use the words of the ex-Minister to dismantle the idea that the liberalisation of the lease market — operated with demands of evil and unconstitutionality — would dynamize the lease market. The so-called'market', Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the same. I would like to quote again the former Minister at the end of her presentation on the same date as 2012 so as to make it clear what she is proposing, and I think that the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Commission should be informed. Members may understand what happened: « I just want to finish by saying that when we look at our lease market, we quickly find that the offer or is of poor quality, of degraded and uncomfortable houses, or it is very expensive, with very high incomes, well above the possibilities of people. And when it's not at stake bad quality or expensive income, then, most likely, it's because the location is not famous, typically forcing lazy, weary and harmful pendulum displacements to the environment. We are convinced that this proposal is capable of responding positively to the challenge we face. It's a balanced law. It is a law which is not of any particular interest, but which serves only the interests of all Portuguese in terms of a lease market to function well and to provide to all, in particular to young people who no longer have the credit to buy home, suitable housing for their needs and affordable prices.' Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members have spent almost 10 years of this prophetic intervention at the time, Minister for Assumption Cristas and this tragic day that came to substantially reduce — it is true — the number of people over 65 years of age protected by law and also from contracts prior to 1990, which mostly protect and protect these people. This law was declared unconstitutional in some of its terms, because it violates the trust and stability of older people, especially protected by the Constitution. Over the past 10 years, I ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen: what has the liberalisation of the market done? Did he lower his rents? Yeah, no. Would you have made more housing available for rent? Not either. Has she guaranteed the rehabilitation of the building for residential rent? Not either. Did you guarantee rent for the younger ones? One more time, no. We can conclude that this was a law that had the only objective of destabilizing the housing lease and of ensuring that thousands of people protected by the law and the Constitution were cleared. It was certainly a very bad law. Today, however, this law has not been substantially altered. The amendments to the law have established a minimum ceiling for contracts of only one year — a person enters and may already have to be thinking about leaving home. In addition, this law maintains the transitional contracts that press for the instability that rents in the country after the pandemic, before seeing again the space that inhabits the local housing. This law does not remove the transition from the old contracts and does not guarantee all tenants who have been unconstitutionally stripped of protection and even, let us say, the compensation that the State owes them. These were minimal measures that, in September of this year, the Left Block presented here and that the Socialist Party — together with the PSD and the CDS — has plummeted. The same Socialist Party that in 2012 said that contracts should be for at least five years, the same Socialist Party that, in the Housing Bases Act, did a left hand job and included stability and protection, as well as active follow-up of the public housing eviction that recently referred social security to the competence of the authorities in the field of decentralization. in this crisis of identity to which we are witnessing, I wonder: will this be another Socialist Party already? The one that probably emerges since the end of 2019? It was also this Socialist Party — again, I don't know whether it will be the current or the previous — that committed itself, in 2017, to more than 170 000 public fires until 2026. What is true is that the commitment has been systematically failed. And not only those more generic commitments, but also, for example, Programme 1. the law, which ceased to celebrate the 50 years of April and perhaps, who knows, will celebrate the 52 years. And it's not just the Block that says it, it's also the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has now made a very detailed analysis — and I invite you. Members and Members of Parliament to examine - it is - the budget entries for 2020 in the housing programme and also the entry in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ( PEES ), which has been made viable in this House with the Supplementary Budget for 2020. Indeed, in the measures in which the Government intends to act, the Court of Auditors refers to a budgetary implementation of only 16 %, corresponding to EUR 10 million of the estimated EUR 63 million entered. And I am going to detail, because I think it is important that we understand not only the legislative failure since 2019, but also the budgetary failure which can no longer be attributed to the start of the programmes. In the context of the conservation and rehabilitation of the IHRU housing park ( Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation ), in 2020 the Ministry reduced by 30 % the number of fires to be rehabilitated, budgeted EUR 7 million and executed EUR 5, EUR 4 million. of the 4000 houses that would rehabilitate in four years, rehabilitate, in one year, only 300. In the protection of housing rent — income subsidies — of the 4 million euro budgeted, only EUR 1, 2 million was executed, i.e. 30 % were implemented. For the public housing park at affordable costs of EUR 48 million budgeted, 7 % were executed. In the conversion of the local accommodation, announced with pump and circumstances of 4, 5 million euro budgeted, there was zero execution. In the measures to reduce, suspend or exempt public park income, in which thousands of poor aggregates could have been supported and in situations of work informality in domestic or construction sectors, but also in others, IHRU responded to only 30 requests, which reached some €30 000 in the framework of these 30 applications. I recall that IHRU has a residential park with about 14,000 fires. In order to respond to the housing crisis and the pandemic crisis, the government had already entered a low value for the housing sector. When we were supposed to be all at home, with the housing needs we know in our country, the government mobilised only EUR 63 million. Now, of these, he used 10 million euros. Well the Government and the Socialist Party can "fill their mouths" with the priority that housing is, but what the numbers show is that the budget for 1. the law is insufficient, the regulation of the basic housing law is half—and at many points it preferred to leave the people unprotected—and the other programmes are always executed on the third. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, « propaganda and water sells every one of you». The Left Block does not embark on government-operated budgetary and legislative magic tricks. Our commitment is even to the right to housing and to the withdrawal of the period of the troika and of Christian Assumption from our history. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u29	To request clarification, Mr. Eduardo Barroco de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u30	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, I should like to tell you that I wanted here to try a kind of change in the behaviour of the Socialist Party as if there were two. Mrs. Deputy, there are no two Socialist Parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u31	There are many more!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u32	... nor has the Socialist Party changed since before the vote of the State budget for now. contrary to what Mrs. Deputy meant, the Socialist Party is the same as since 2015 and in conjunction with the Left Block has assumed housing as a priority. There is certainly no government to whom you can accuse of not having a priority in housing other than the Socialist Party — in fact, it is the same Socialist Party who always, in the history of Portuguese democracy, ruled on the left, led the left-wing governments. So much so that, despite the power of the honourable Member not to recognize it, the population recognises it, because whenever the population, in legislative elections, wanted to choose a left-wing government did not vote on the Left Block, he even voted on the Socialist Party, which is the party of the popular left that represents the majority of Portuguese voters. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mrs. Member, of no use coming here to talk about propaganda when what you just did was exactly an exercise of propaganda. The honourable Member spoke, for example, of the need to care for the protection of older tenants. Mrs Deputy, in the State budget, the suspension of the transition to NRAU was anticipated. Now, we cannot do propaganda again, as the honourable Member wanted to do here; what we want to do is do public policy with data and we will know who we have to answer. It is not by chance that the Government of the Socialist Party, when preparing the Census, included in the survey changes to let us know what population exists in Portugal right now and who are the people who are covered by these legislative amendments. Therefore, we need to make public policy, given the concrete reality, and this is not a pamphlet speech, as the honourable Member has done; it is a matter of understanding how we can better support these people through public policies; it is a matter of building supported solutions; it is a matter of knowing how we can actually make a difference in people's lives. The honourable Member has made a bold presentation of the projects which she has already presented in September and I have absolutely no problems with it, because the honourable Member can present whatever she wants, but it cannot be to ignore the differences that exist between the Socialist Party and the Left Block in order not to accept this proposal at this time. And we just don't want a simple reason: because, contrary to what you said, we don't want to do politics on the basis of emptiness, we don't have to do politics on the basis of pressure. In fact, people would not understand that we, being soon to receive the results of the Census surveys that the government has prepared, as it was already included in the State budget proposal, purposely to develop appropriate solutions over the next year for this problem... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, take it easy! It would not be understood that we could deceive people and we could again be one year from now to another to promote changes to respond to what we had not been able to respond to at this time. That is why, Madam Member, the Socialist Party is the same as it has always been and will answer in the housing on the left, as it has always answered, but with one reason: we do not do this on the basis of pressure; we do it on the basis of data, because it is political prepared and sustained that the Portuguese want, it is not pamphlets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u33	In reply, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u34	Mr President, Mr Baroco de Melo, in fact, you raise here a number of questions which seem to me to have been clarified during my speech. You will not have, perhaps, followed by the amendments that we have made to the Housing Bases Act, to the lease law, the manoeuvres that the Socialist Party has been introducing into the different legislations and that have opened a trap for people over 65 years of age to live in the same house for more than 15 years or more than 20 years. Members of your bench will know more about what I'm talking about. Nor will you know, or you will probably know, that the Socialist Party was defending that lease contracts were at least five years old and that what is set out in the law is one year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u35	It's three years! Three years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u36	It's a year! There is no renewal of contracts, it is a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u37	Three years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u38	You will read the legislation, Mr. Deputies. Adjourn often without regard to the protection of tenants in the rental legislation, sometimes without regard to the rules of the Housing Bases Act, sometimes without regard to the budgetary implementation of 1. the law, sometimes without regard to the implementation of the ESP ( Social Emergency Programme ), also now in 2020, sometimes without regard to the rehabilitation of the IHRU building, sometimes without regard to the continuation of the construction of a housing or public housing park the accessible income, is these issues that we are talking about. We are talking about legislative amendments, as well as budgetary amendments, and not in any way — I say this again — filling our mouths with the idea that priority is housing. Misleading people is, in fact, delaying and filling their mouths with these words. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u39	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva has the floor. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u40	Mr. President, I am beginning to warn you that I have registered my presence. The system doesn't give me the record, but I'm here. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the first moment of the health crisis that the NAP has alerted to the social and economic crisis that would arise and, of course, to the need for measures to protect the right to housing. But the problems associated with housing were not born with COVID-19. Immediately before the crisis, we were the country where the price of housing increased and in which spending with housing more reflected the overload of family charges. All thanks to the erratic policies of PS and PSD, based on an unsustainable tourism model, with the logic of short-term profit, which drove people away from cities, particularly young people. Unfortunately, we have seen little political will to follow a different path, so it seems to us that the exit of the health crisis will no longer be a return to the past and to the mistakes that led us to the housing crisis. But during the health crisis the NAP said « present». Of course, we acted in defense of the owners of our own house. We were the first party to propose that the Government approve a moratorium regime for housing credit. We proposed that the people who resorted to moratoriums should not pay interest to double with the capitalization of interest in the loan, a proposal that was plunged with the abstention of the Arrival and the vote against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL. More recently, at the end of these moratoriums, we were able to vote in favour of all parties and the PS's abstention to grant a seal tax exemption to all persons and associations who, having benefited from the moratorium regime, have to renegotiate their credit due to the situation of weakness which still makes themselves felt. We have always been on the front line in defending the rights of tenants. We defend the need to ensure that the deadlines are not too closed to ensure some stability, something that has not been accepted. In April, we argued that the lease moratorium regime should cover non-residential tenants, who are not second tenants, but the government has unfortunately taken months to recognize what the NAP has already recognized. Only two months ago, we brought here several proposals, including the provision of effective responses and social monitoring guarantees throughout the clearance process, ensuring the prevention of evictions in case of action that falls on the public or municipal housing of vulnerable people or families, without previously ensuring adequate and dignified re-housing solutions throughout the family, meaning, for the purposes, by family aggregate, all the people who make up it, as well as its pets, who are increasingly taken as an integral part of the family. We have also put forward a proposal for the necessary extension of the moratorium on the payment of income due under lease contracts under the pandemic. All these proposals were rejected with the votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS and the Arrival, and the abstention from the IL. in this debate, we wanted to participate in our own proposals that gave concrete answers to the needs that the social and economic crisis still places us and we wanted to increase the period of deficiency applicable after the end of the moratoriums provided for under the housing and non-residential urban leases and the provision of essential services. People continue to need public responses that curate the vulnerability situation in which they still find themselves. If a family, due to the contingencies of the crisis, is unable to pay the benefits of the water account, provided for in its payment plan, it must not see the service being cut; yes, it must have tolerance and time within a clearly defined period. This proposal could be discussed and approved here today, however, the CFP once again placed its party interest in meeting people's needs and rejected this agenda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u41	You guys did your thing about vertebrate animals last week!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u42	... which is regrettable and contrary to the PAN philosophy in the face of the PCP proposals. We put the interests of people and populations in front of any party interest. Thus, in this debate, the CFP opts to be alone and for the proposals that we have two considerations that we find relevant: firstly, these proposals do not fall short of the excessive dispatch of previous proposals from the CFP in terms of lease, despite providing for, with a rule logic and framework, the non-applicability of the NRAU to certain contracts, which we do not follow and which we hope to see remote in the specialty; secondly, we are in favour of a set of proposals that present, without losing sight of a certain logic of balance and greater protection of tenants in the context of the current crisis we are experiencing. However, we cannot also lose sight of the gentlemen, particularly the small tenants, because, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, not all of you are real estate funds, and these people cannot be forgotten either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u43	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All Portuguese have the right, for themselves and for their families, to adequate housing, in conditions of hygiene and comfort and to preserve personal privacy and family privacy. This is a constitutional imperative which places the responsibility of compliance on the State. In fact, in order to ensure the right to live in every citizen, of every family, it is up to the State to: plan and implement a housing policy inserted in general planning plans of the territory and supported in urbanization plans that guarantee the existence of an adequate network of transport and social equipment; promote, in collaboration with the autonomous regions and local authorities, the construction of economic and social housing; stimulate private construction, subject to general interest, and access to own or rented housing; encourage and support the initiatives of local communities and populations, aiming at solving their housing problems and promoting housing cooperatives and self-construction. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the constitutional imperative is this and is provided for in Article 65. the Constitution. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the constitutional imperative is clear: it is up to the State. I'm going to repeat: it's up to the state! It is not for the gentlemen. These aren't, sirs. Members, an extension of the State. These are not an arm of social security and are not institutions of social solidarity. And in this, as in many other constitutional imperatives, the State, and specifically the government, fails. It fails when the government does not programme and does not implement a housing policy capable of giving adequate answers to the needs of Portuguese. It fails when it does not promote investment and when it does not create opportunities for people, opportunities for better jobs, for better living conditions. These are cross-sectional problems to society as a whole, they are not problems of tenants or landlords, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, these are problems of society. Ladies and gentlemen, so many times—and it is good not to forget—they are so often natural people who survive and support their families with the value parks of their incomes. But for the PCP, which today brings us a diploma for appreciation, it is not so and it has not been so. By resorting to sensationalist expressions, for the PCP, the lords are, excuse me, the expression, "poopworms" that spoil the lives of the tenants. And this is all less true. Your arguments, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are fallacious, as is easily demonstrated. The CFP, for example, states that, in relation to contracts concluded before 1990, there is a prospect of the expulsion of families outside their neighbourhoods. But why? Expulsion, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Contracts concluded before 1990 enjoy an exceptional and transitional scheme that protects tenants, in particular those who are 65 years of age or older or who have a disability of 60 % or more. in these cases, Mrs. Members, the contract regime only becomes more flexible with the leaser's agreement. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, but I will repeat: in these cases, the lease arrangement only becomes more flexible with the leaser's agreement. In addition, this transitional regime has existed since 2012, as has already been said, that is, it has been in existence for almost 10 years. A regime which, at this time, has undergone some changes, which have always been in a sense: to strengthen the protection of tenants. Where is the danger of the expulsion of the families, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! It did not exist in 2012 and does not exist today, since we are facing a perfectly stabilized regime at this level, according to which all renters aged 65 years or older and tenants with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 60 % are protected, and know that they are protected. Another sensationalism note of the PCP is what it says about the National Rent Balcão (BNA), claiming that it is a serious discretionary factor. For the PCP, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, BNA is a torment. But you believed, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, that torment is for all those who resort to it to carry out a eviction, to recover their buildings, their houses, from all tenants who do not comply with their obligations—and this we also have to say: either because the contract has expired and does not deliver the houses, or because they no longer pay the rents and there they remain abusively dwelling, as if the houses were theirs. This one, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the real torment! It should be recalled that the creation of the BNA resulted in a tax to reduce judicial expectations, thus creating an alternative procedural regime to the judicial process and to the courts. It has not been created — we must say this, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! — with an intention to facilitate the disposal of waste. It was created by an imposition to reduce judicial expectations. And who he's resorting to, to the BNA, you know, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is little or nothing about the facilitator. Then, a third fallacy: the PCP reports that the COVID-19 epidemic has made the differences between the weak resources of most housing tenants and the great interests linked to the financing of the real estate. What you're trying to say with this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? What are these differences? What the COVID-19 has shown was quite different: it was the lack of resources from many families to deal with crisis situations such as those we live through, in particular the difficulties in maintaining their jobs, because the economy has stagnated; the difficulty in maintaining the quality of life of their families, because many have lost their jobs; the difficulties, Mr President. Members, in order to honour their commitments, including the payment of income from their homes. But if these difficulties exist for all, as is evident, the causes, in addition to the COVID-19 epidemic, are also related to the inability of the government, supported by the left parties, to equalize and implement solutions that respond directly to the difficulties of families, such as the difficulty in paying the incomes of their homes. This function, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the State and not to the gentlemen. Until — it is important not to forget — the condition of a tenant is not always synonymous with a person in need of help. And when it is, then such people in need of help must be able to use public services to find housing alternatives. But such measures cannot be found at the expense of delays in the proceedings, as well as the diploma presented to us by the CFP. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has been well in choosing the issue that brought the debate, but once again failed the assumptions and, as has happened with this government, has also failed in the solutions it has presented us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u45	Two Mrs were registered. Members for clarification requests, one from the PS and the other from the CFP, to which the honourable Member will answer together. First of all, Mr Luís Reis has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, more than discussing the amendments to the extraordinary regime of protection and support for tenants, it seems clear to me that what we are really discussing today are two views, different for the country, on programme 1. The law concerns. If, on the one hand, on the left, even at different speeds, we have the concern of an interventional and regulatory State, capable of promoting the stability of urban lease and, at the same time, protecting the situations of greater fragility, on the right, under the aegis of the supposed objective of urban rehabilitation, the liberalisation of the lease market is defended, with the adverse consequences which are so well known. It is never too much to emphasise that between 2012 and 2015 the right to housing was one of the most under attack rights, with a permissive regulation and that it intended exclusively to benefit the owners. In fact, I can recall a well-known phrase from the then Minister for the Planning of the Territory, Assumption Cristas, who said that the right to property prevails over the right to housing. And today, for Mrs Marcia Passos, she was also overcome in her speech that is so for the bench of the Social Democratic Party. But in this particular case, rights do not necessarily have to overlap, it is a balance. Just as the result of our action is not just numbers or statistics, they have a human face, behind this reality the drama of many families persists in this matter. Although in the last two legislatures we have reverted some of the measures that weigh on these same families, there is still a long way to go to ensure universal access to housing, a path that will naturally not forget additional aspects, in which we have come to work, such as encouraging urban rehabilitation, such as combating energy poverty, the necessary link between national and local housing programmes, obviously with a deep involvement of the authorities, but also in simplifying processes. This is a course that upholds the right to housing and whose responsibility must call us all. And it is not enough for the PSD to take refuge and appeal for regulatory responsibility, as the honourable Member has already done in recent debates on this matter, when they were the main ones responsible for the various instability factors resulting from Law No 31/2012 — it is necessary for the Portuguese to know what they are coming from. The question that arises, Mrs Deputies, is whether, after the « Cristas law» and after voting against the Basic Housing Law, the stability that the PSD plays is the return to 2012, with market liberalisation, with the exponential increase in incomes and the facilitation of evictions. on our part, the Portuguese know what they can count on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u47	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now speaks for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Márcia Passos, of her speech, it turns out that the PSD whether the state is not the guarantor of housing, but rather a muscular instrument, at the service of forcing the evictions to many tenants who need the right to housing is assured and that it is not today. The question I wanted to ask you does not have to deal directly with this subject, but with another one, which did not mention in its intervention. Several times we have heard the PSD very concerned about the situation of companies, the need to support companies, the competitiveness of companies. What I wanted to ask you has to do with one of the most important factors in many small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the basis of this country's business fabric, is precisely the cost of renting. The PSD forgets that it approved with the CDS the « law of waste », which not only protected the right to housing, but also contributed to a brutal increase in income for thousands of micro and small businesses, particularly in the restoration, small trade, workshops and out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u50	Many of these companies have been forced to close or relocate away from their customers, and what we see in cities such as Lisbon or Porto is an example of this. See how much of the local trade was expelled to install shops, some of them from large chains, just for tourists to see. It is seen as the expulsion of this small proximity trade, the fruit of the « law of waste», even destroyed a social fabric that gave life to the cities themselves. This ended with the breadwinner of many of these microenterprises. And if it is true that the PSD, together with the CDS, has responsibilities in the adoption of this law, it is also no less true that the PS has always refused to revoke these standards, allying itself to the right and thus placing the great interests of the real estate funds above the interests of many of these commercial tenants. But if there were companies that managed to survive the "dispatch law" of the PSD and the CDS, the fact is that the pandemic, contrary to what the honourable Member said, has greatly aggravated the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as well. And since many of these companies have not yet recovered a normal framework, we ask the PSD if it is available to approve what the PCP, today, proposes: prolong the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants, created to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, and ensure that NRAU is not applied to lease contracts prior to 1990, two measures which also apply to the commercial lease and which of its approval also depends on the future of many micro, small and medium-sized companies in this country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u51	To answer that, you have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Luis Reis, we do not want to go back to 2012, because that meant we were going to catch up again in a country that was broken down by the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] So we really don't want to. We don't want to, sir! What we want is balanced solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u54	What the PSD wants is that, in a situation where a tenant cannot pay the rent, it does not have to be the landlord to bear this condition and that it has answers in society, because the state gives it these answers. That is what we want, that is, people find solutions in public services when they themselves cannot get them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u55	That is exactly what you want, and always wanted, the PSD Parliamentary Group: balanced solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u57	Mr Duarte Alves, with all due respect to you, do not come to speak in support of the owners of commercial incomes, because if it had not been the PSD, in time of pandemic, to propose solutions for the payment of incomes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u58	It's true! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u59	...to this day, these gentlemen would be completely deprived of support... [[PSD applause.]] ...and these renters would continue, too, without the same ones. [[PCP protests.]] Therefore, Mr. Member, solutions for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is a plan of the Social Democratic Party, which will continue to fight for it. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u60	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Portuguese Communist Party for having scheduled to debate such an important and timely issue...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u62	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u63	... such as the need to create mechanisms of protection and support for tenants, in this particular case and in accordance with the proposal under discussion, through the creation of an extraordinary regime. in this discussion, it is important, first of all, to remember that our Constitution includes the right to housing on the list of fundamental rights. This element cannot be forgotten or ignored in this debate, especially because of the text of our country's Basic Law itself, it is clear and explicit that, in order to ensure the right to housing, it is up to the State to adopt a policy aimed at establishing a system of incomes compatible with family income. But more: the Constitution also expressly states that all Portuguese have the right, for themselves and for their families, to a housing of adequate size, in conditions of hygiene and comfort, which preserves personal privacy and family privacy, as, moreover, has been mentioned today. If this is a responsibility of the State in normal circumstances, more relevance takes place in periods such as those that we unfortunately still live today. In fact, the pandemic continues to affect all levels and dimensions of our lives. Unsurprisingly, it has caused a set of problems to micro, small and medium-sized companies in our country, with all the importance that these companies represent for our economy also at the level of jobs, but it was also without surprise that the pandemic has caused a set of serious problems to thousands and thousands of families also in terms of housing. The truth is that a very large universe of people has lost their jobs and so many others have seen their income substantially reduced, especially those who, contrary to their will but because of demands or imperatives of collective interest, have remained in layoff and, therefore, with sharp losses in their incomes and family budgets. in this circumstance, thousands and thousands of families were objectively unable to respond to the commitments they also made at home, because the thin family budget does not allow them to cope with all the expenses to maintain what is essential to life. It is also interesting to recall that the problem was not created by the pandemic. The problem comes from behind and far from behind. What the pandemic has done was to expand the dimension of the problem, because the problem already existed and long ago, having known, in fact, a substantial impulse with Law No. 31 / 2012, a law of the PSD Government / CDS-PP, therefore, of the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, which would, in fact, remain for history — and with all property, be said to pass — as the « law of waste». Indeed, such a New Urban Rent Scheme has introduced a number of elements which, as it was predicted, have enhanced, and continue to potentiate, a set of injustices and arbitrariness at the level of the lease, injustices that are imperative to correct. It is necessary to correct them because, in spite of the specific changes that have been made in recent years, particularly in the previous legislation, which in some ways have minimized the most negative effects of such a « layoff law », still remain, in this scheme, elements of gross discretion, as is the case of the Rent Balcony. Therefore, in conclusion, we follow the proposal under discussion. We follow it not only because we also consider it absolutely imperative to establish the extension of the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants by extending the period of validity of Law No 1 -A / 2020, as is also envisaged in the proposal presented by the CFP today for discussion, but also because it seems fair to us that the extension of the exceptional regime for situations of delay in the payment of due income in terms of urban lease contracts, whether residential or non-residential. The same is true of the proposed amendments presented by the CFP in its legislative initiative concerning the rules which continue to impede instigating problems to people and which require an immediate response, in particular the period of transition of the contract, the protection of the tenant of 65 years of age or older or with a disability of 60 % or more. Finally, but not least, it is necessary to remove from the scope of the application of the New Urban Rent Scheme the lease contracts prior to the entry into force of Law No 6 / 2006. In conclusion, I would like to say that for the Greens Ecological Party the proposals, or measures, today are very important not only for thousands and thousands of families, but also for many micro and small businesses. These are proposals, or measures, more than fair, that seek to shake the threat faced by thousands and thousands of families in view of the possibility of being homeless. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u64	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Housing, the priority of the right to housing, is one of the great marks of the governance of the Socialist Party, of the PS parliamentary work in this House and also of several important consensus between the parliamentary left, in the previous and present legislatures. This is an undeniable fact whether it has been recognised today or not by whom it should do so. We recall that it was the governance of the Socialist Party that allowed to go beyond a de-investment of decades, which resulted in a residual public housing park, which hypothesized the emancipation of young people and prevented, continuing to prevent, many from living in the lands and cities they choose and where they work, imposing, at this time, a line that divides those who have possibilities, or money, to live wherever they want and those who move away from the urban centers. This disinvestment also resulted in the absence of affordable rent or housing with minimum conditions of dignity. We have withdrawn, since 2015, the proper conclusion of the governance of the right, of the use of the market as a solution for everything and of errors with devaluation on housing. Where there is less public investment, there are more inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since then we have been implementing the largest public investment in ever-inhabited housing of our democratic history, with global and structural responses, as requested by the PCP, to respond to the problems of housing of Portuguese. There is no precedent in our history for the efforts being made by the government, fulfilling the Housing Bases Act, implementing a new generation of housing policies, with the creation of a public housing park at affordable costs for the middle class, with tax incentives created for affordable lease, with a paradigm that fights for the rehabilitation of the heritage of all put in service of the country, instead of their alienation, or with Program 1. the right, with more than 100 approved local housing strategies, to respond to 35 000 families on which the state has a greater responsibility to ensure a decent housing. Yes, to the full commitment of the Portuguese State to housing, we added synergy with the municipalities, to respond to the many housing challenges, because the PS has the experience of its own local heritage. The truth is that, during a long period of de-investment of the central State, the Socialist Party, as a large authentic party, had, over almost five decades of democratic local power, successive local elected decision-makers who solved problems in the field of housing, building public housing, rehabilitating degraded housing parks, legalizing whole neighborhoods and urbanizations, laying down barracks, in short, dignifying the lives of generations of Portuguese and Portuguese, who obtained greater social justice and better housing conditions than those that were linked to them by previous generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, through the socialist governments, the State also assumes its responsibility. Therefore, it may be good to remember that the Socialist Party is the great party of housing in Portugal. It's not another, it's the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We don't need them to remind us, sirs. Members, that the wild liberalisation of incomes has led to tragic social consequences just for the poorest, for the most unprotected, for the older, consequences that we are still recovering and reverting and with which we do not admit that, falsely, no party on the left seeks to associate or consider appropriate. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] We did not privatize, we did not disgruntle, we did not liberalize. This is how we are doing a great reform in housing, with public investment and social justice, in a country that has invested in the right causes, such as ensuring that everyone has home, without, therefore, stop growing economically. What we do not, even without liberalizing, without deregulating, without deprotecting, is to ignore the balance between the parties, landlords and tenants, to which we remain sensitive, or to ignore the importance of stability in lease relations, which the CFP project does not value either. But there are some changes that will be needed in the very near future, which have even been involved with the budget lead and that the PS here assumes the responsibility to resolve. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it must be made clear in this debate that the PS agrees that, 10 years after the famous 'Cristan Law', it is necessary to find a balanced solution for all parties, which ensures, in particular, that no tenant shall remain in a situation of vulnerability with the transition to the New Urban Rent Scheme. It must be made clear in this debate that the PS will not allow or enable, today or in the future, a solution that repeats the nefarious scenario of evictions, of unmeasured income updating, leaving behind thousands of unprotected people, as happened in the past, without social or legal protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block well know, the Government entered into the State Budget which was downgraded a rail standard suspending the deadlines in 2020 and extended the transitional period,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] ... with a view to working over the next year on a definitive and coherent solution. The CFP which criticises a temporary solution to protrude a transitional regime to solve a problem to people is the same party that today proposes to extend this period, not one year, as we propose, but for five more years, without resolution. But the Portuguese can rest and all the tenants whose regime ends only in November 2022 and not in January 2022, as it has already been heard today, because there will be time to correct the problem that was not the PS that created. They will not be the victims of this budget's lead, too, of the tenants who were expecting a solution on this matter in the Budget, because, on a proposal from the PS Parliamentary Group, if the government is in office, we will again present the suspension of the transitional period or a definitive solution, knowing the data from the Census that will allow us to have a serious public policy of response for those who, due to economic deficiency, need that measure. We will be asking the other parties in the House if they follow the PS or which side they are on. What we cannot do is follow fears, delays or last-minute remedies to a policy that has to be a structural response to the country. This response was given in the XXII Government Programme of the Republic and the key PS options to respond to housing challenges were present in the State Budget for 2022, which the PS approved. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the PS continues with the same determination and conviction it had before: that the public investment in the country and the housing reform should generate the same social consensus on its importance that the public school or the National Health Service (SNS) have in Portuguese society and that the Portuguese know that with the Socialist Party there is a guarantee that they will not be devalued, dismantled or privatized. So we will work until the last day, until the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, and in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u66	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the entry for two requests for clarification, one from the PCP and one from the PSD. I ask you how you want to answer, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u67	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u68	I therefore begin by giving the floor to Mr António Filipe of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u69	Mr President, Mrs Maria Begonha, I do not have much to say or ask you about the first part of the Socialist Party's self-deployment intervention on housing policies and housing assurance, but, Mrs Deputy, I have never seen any Member here from any side of this House speaking against the right to housing. Until recently Mrs Marcia Passos began her speech, and very well, quoting, textually, the article of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u70	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u71	So, of course, that is not what we are discussing here. What we are discussing is very concrete proposals from the draft law submitted by the CFP and on that, in fact, Mrs Deputy said very little. The concern we have — but, of course, you do not have — and what we are discussing is what we are going to do about the situation of people who, in the middle of the pandemic, and we know that unfortunately the pandemic is far from being damaged — have been unprotected. That is to say whether the transitional regime that has been approved to protect people in this context, to protect tenants and, in particular, those who are in the most disadvantaged situation, should be maintained or should cease. That is the question that is on the table, on which the honourable Member said virtually nothing and took up some of the idea that Mr. Eduardo Barroco de Melo referred, i.e. that the PS now found in the proposal from the State Budget for 2022 the panacea that would solve all the evils. For any problem detected in Portuguese society it will be said: "Ah, but the State budget, if approved, would solve this problem! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Madam Member, then, what happens is that the Socialist Party not only did not want its Budget to be approved—and this must be repeated: the PS did not want, the PS refused any convergence that could lead to the approval of the Budget—as it now says that it does not approve the proposals put forward to solve concrete problems, saying that it would solve them through the Budget, when it is not true, it is not true! [[PS protests.]] In other words, what happens is that the Socialist Party, by refusing to make proposals for solving concrete problems by saying that it would solve them in the budget, is demonstrating that it does not want to solve them now or want to solve them in the budget debate. [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, when they come to praise the Socialist Party's policy, I would like to know, in the face of the problems that may arise with many tenants in this country in the near future, if the honourable Members do. Members will tell you that it is a left-wing position to allow these people to be cleared and to remain on the street because the Socialist Party refused to extend the support deadlines for these people during the pandemic. But in conclusion, Mr President, the honourable Member has come to tell us that the Socialist Party has proposals to see the results of the Census. In other words, the Socialist Party refuses to equalize solutions now, when they are necessary and urgent, and comes to tell us: "Well, we will solve this after we know the results of the Census. » Madam Member, I think what people should read in your statement is that it will not be after the results of the Census but, yes, after the elections of 30 January! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u72	The Socialist Party does not want to solve the problem now to appear to people on the eve of elections to promise that it will solve them later. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u73	To make a request for clarification, Mr. Jorge Mendes, of the PSD, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u74	Mr President, Mrs Maria Begonha, I have listened carefully to your speech by praising the government's house epic. And he even said: "A mark of the governance of the PS and of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group", which, and will allow me, of course, leads me to ask you some questions, almost of impulse. First question : do you really believe that today, after six years of socialist governance, we are better than the housing market? Do you really believe that? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u75	Second question : do you really believe that the lease market is more dynamic, with more supply and incomes more adjusted to the Portuguese financial capacities over six years? Madam Member, what we find by statistics is that reality is very different from the reality that the Socialist Party wants. It's exactly the opposite of what you said. Today we have fewer leases, rents are higher, almost prohibitive, and government houses are still paper houses or paper houses! Here you have arrived, Mrs Deputies, even if you would like to believe in the goodness of the proposals and the Government's commitment to solve the housing problems, in particular the lease, how do you explain these results over the past six years, Mrs Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u76	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u77	Ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, since 2012, small steps have been taken to reconstitute and relaunch the lease market, placing on the strengthening of the sector's indispensable trust, including the introduction of future contracts and the annual update of incomes, with adjusted rules. The ideological blindness of the most radical left-wing parties, often imposing themselves on the Socialist Party at the negotiating table of the last state budgets, have again transformed the landlords into what they are not and can be, that is, extensions of social security. But if the State wishes to protect the tenants exceptionally, it must assume this burden, and does not wear it in the domain of the landlords, many of whom are reformed, who legitimately applied their savings in a real estate, hoping that there will be a fair remuneration, a complement to their reform. The landlords, like tenants, are not abstract categories, they are people, mostly micro and small investors, many emigrants from our diaspora and reformed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u79	Madam Member, do you think it is fair, acceptable, dignified, that the State requires everything from the owners, these owners, in tax terms, but does not protect their legitimate rights as masters? In the light of the new proposal from the CFP, 25. the hour—because this proposal appeared at 25. the time too — are the Government and the Socialist Party next to the restoration of confidence, indispensable to the lease market, or again align with the left in its destruction? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u80	In reply, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u81	Mr President, of course, I appreciate the requests for clarification that have been made to me. Mr António Filipe of the Portuguese Communist Party, the recognition, which includes the left-wing parliamentary majority of which the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party are not part, was not a self-reliance. It is not self-recognition to recognize the path made over the past few years, in which it is true that there is an unprecedented investment in housing in Portugal, and until recently we were all able to make that recognition, which I hope we are still able to do. So it is not for self-recognition — and so I am also responding to the PSD — that today, in fact, in terms of public housing and the responsibilities that the State assumes in this regard, we are indisputably better. And, in fact, we believe that this reality should also be recognized by the Portuguese Communist Party. With regard to the questions you asked me about leaving people unprotected, we do not understand how the Portuguese Communist Party argues that we now need to go back to extraordinary measures and regimes, a regime that ended in June/July this year. How do we motivate this amendment? [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] at this moment, we are not faced with the possibility or immensity of confinement, we are close to group immunity, on a recovery route, and it is certainly not to leave this for the day after the elections or for the period of the election campaign, in a machiavellian way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u82	Looks like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u83	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not see what motivates this retreat to exceptional and temporary measures whose regime has already ended. Of course, if we are again facing a confinement, in view of the need for more protection measures, the Socialist Party's Government and this bench, which always knew how to respond when necessary, they will do so. We do not understand how the CFP assesses that it is at this stage and at this stage that it is necessary to go back to these extraordinary measures. Otherwise, but also within the idea of the protection of tenants and people, yes, honourable Member, this proposal for the State Budget did not have all the political and public responses to housing, for which there are also the government's public policies and other responses. The State budget instrument is not the only one. Only in this State budget was it, in fact, with the rail standard, which protected them and protected them, the suspension of the transitional regime for NRAU, which was suspended in 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I was serving! And so much so useful that the gentlemen. Members today present a project that did exactly the same thing, but suspending this solution for five years, which we find neither adjusted nor balanced. And, in particular, Mr President, it does not seem to us to be balanced that, in the face of a lead in the State budget and the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, we make substantive, structural changes to the urban lease, now and under these conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Jorge Mendes, from the PSD, I do not think it is possible to balance views. We have a vision of balance between tenants and lords, a vision that privileges... [[No, that's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u84	...the tenant, the property against the right to housing, and you believe in a vision that the market will have a magical solution to regulate problems, as happened in the past. We do not believe in this deregulation, we believe in the lease market that protects the renter, which protects the part that most needs protection. This is a housing policy that protects the country and is the policy we have pursued. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u85	We are going back to the speeches and now I give the floor to Mr Ventura from arrive. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is curious. We had Mr. Eduardo Barroco de Melo say this: "The PS has always ruled on the left in terms of housing. Do not keep on seeking. ” of what I remember, the only time José Socrates left in housing was when he paid lodging to several people in Paris, and it wasn't from his pocket, it was from another. It was the only time I remember that José Socrates was so left-handed about housing! [[PSD laughter.]] But this CFP debate is curious, because it is a pure electoral exercise. The CFP comes to this House asking for more support for the tenants, but it had six State budgets — six! — in which it could have required the PS to reform the Housing Base Law and never did so. The CFP prefers to be alone in this debate and therefore did not accept that no proposal would be dragged here. unlike other parties, who accept the CFP proposals, the CFP does what it knows best: use its bureaucratic and baffling techniques to prevent the debate in the Assembly of the Republic. It's the usual, which we're already used to, and so we expect that bench to go half as early as January 30 next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u87	Let's get them to Moura!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u88	Half or a third, it may be a third too, sir! It makes sense whether or not it's a protection made to tenants over 65 years of age... [[PCP protests.]] Mr President, I'm sorry, but I can't, it's impossible! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u89	Mrs. Members, on account of our in-depth listening to Mr André Ventura,... [[General laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u90	Imagine what it would be like! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u91	...he asked for silence to be heard. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u92	I know that no one wants to hear me interminously, so I will end by saying this: this project forgets the landlords, kills the housing market. It is a project with a unilateral view of the market, which the PCP only wants to use in electoral terms, a project that cannot look at the landlords as small and micro-enterprises, as some of them are, some of them with the savings of a lifetime, and treats them all as a sort of locating bandits, who want to treat equally and in the same way. That is why this project is legal, but it is not political and it is the duty of this House to block it. Even to finish, Mr President, I wanted to say that this project, to be approved, would kill the market. But the PCP knows well that this project will never be approved, or it is to take something to the election campaign, which did not require the PS for six years, and that is to deceive the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u93	You're going to try to find the nun of Moura!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u94	On January 30th we speak!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u95	If you find the nun of Moura, send her my compliments!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u96	We're talking about January 30!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u97	If you take it again...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Ensuring stability in housing rental is an integral part of the right to housing. However, and even though some positive changes have been made in the New Urban Rent Scheme, this continues to be deeply negative for tenants and does not guarantee stability and security in rental. The uncertainty, anxiety, the fear of losing housing, the fear of being able to be the target of a clearance process and having to leave your home, all this is present in many families, particularly in the elderly, in people with disabilities equal to or greater than 60% and in families with low incomes. I speak of couples of the elderly, of elderly people who live alone, of people who have lived a lifetime in the house where they raised their children and where they now help to create grandchildren, of people who have created a close relationship with the neighborhood, who are an integral part of a community and have a sense of belonging to the place. After a lifetime of work, it is violence that can be faced with the loss of housing where they have always lived, without having anywhere to go, uprooted from the environment in which they have always lived and when the low reforms do not allow to bear the high costs with housing. They are people with high disabilities, with disabilities, who cannot find a job or who, because of their condition, can no longer work, people who have low incomes. As if the difficulties of life were not enough, if there were no intervention, these people could also lose their homes because they do not have economic conditions to bear higher incomes. They are families that, due to their characteristics, should have increased social protection. However, they end up being more exposed to the deregulation of the lease, to the liberalisation of income prices, where people's lives do not count, in the name of the market, of speculation, of profits at the expense of the right to housing. If nothing is done, if the proposals of the CFP are not considered and approved, it will be families in a situation of greater fragility, from an economic and social point of view, which will be in the front line to be able to be cleared and to lose their housing, because, due to their low incomes and prohibitive rental prices, they will have no possibility of finding a housing solution. According to data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), in the second quarter of 2021, the median income of the new lease contracts in the country increased 11, 5 %, an increase higher than that observed in the first quarter and these increases occurred in a context marked by the epidemic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the « layoff law» was imposed, PSD and CDS argued that it would dynamize the so-called « lease market », that there would be more houses available for this purpose, but none of this happened. There was no more rent and no more houses available and this law was crucial for thousands of families to lose their homes and have to live for more distant municipalities, having to face travel times for higher work. The reality was right to the CFP, which stated that the « law of eviction » protected tenants in their right to housing and that the costs of renting would increase and become unbearable. It cannot continue to allow the speculative interests of funds and economic groups in the real estate sector to prevail over the rights to housing, the city and the place, the stability of people's lives and their dignity. With the proposal that the CFP brings the debate, this state of affairs can be stopped already and ultimately ensure the stability and security of lease for families, for the elderly over 65 years old, for people with disabilities equal to or greater than 60%, ensure the protection of these families in a situation of greater vulnerability, ensure that housing costs are compatible with their income and guarantee their right to housing, ensuring them the tranquillity and well-being of life. The problem is more than identified, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not time for you to invent new subterfuges so you don't do anything and leave everything as it is. We need to act, we need to solve the problem, we need to ensure stability in people's rent and lives. The Housing Bases Act, approved in the Assembly of the Republic, establishes the social function of housing, determines that housing should have an effective use for housing purposes and that this is its vocation, to guarantee the right to housing and that all buildings or residential fractions, be public or private, participate in the objective of guaranteeing that right. What the CFP proposes are immediate solutions to address emerging problems. over these years, we have come to present substantive, structural proposals to go further in the answer necessary to the issue of housing. Even in September this year we have put forward a number of initiatives here, but what we are bringing here today is proposed to solve the immediate problems and, above all, to prevent families from losing their homes. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u100	As has been approved today at the Conference of Leaders, in time and in mode, with votes, there is only a quorum for voting. I call on the services to implement their procedures to open the quorum for voting. [[Pause.]] Let us, then, continue our work. Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: You chose this Parliament, announced that it was the dissolution, and until marked date, to continue the legislative process as if we were in normal operation, as if you did not know that there would be this dissolution, and even as if you did not know that there had been a lead in the State budget and that therefore there was a very strong condition for measures with financial impact to be approved during the 2022 financial year. And then there are absurd situations like the one that just happened, with the Socialist Party telling the CFP that it should not have brought this issue because at one time the urban lease is not discussed, the same Socialist Party that thinks that at one time euthanasia is discussed. Therefore, there are very important themes, such as urban lease, which cannot be discussed and other subjects of only importance, such as euthanasia, that can be dealt with at the three stages!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u103	It sent the caution that Parliament had been involved in discussions and legislative approvals during this period. The risk is great and, from a political point of view, the image will not be the best either. In this case, we are discussing one of the issues that has been discussed in the public policy options in Portugal for more years and has been considered one of the reforms necessary for the development of our economy and for the social progress of our population. As much as the left wants and gives the personal name of a minister to the law, in 2012 there was no invention of a question with the urban lease by a minister who remembered to change the legislation on it. If there had been an old regime, it was, in fact, coming from the previous political regime. This is still curious and I think it is always interesting when the CFP strongly defends what was probably one of the most serious measures taken during the previous regime, a freeze on incomes which has greatly affected the country's economic and social development and which, on the basis of poverty, has made a completely wrong policy. He made a policy of those who do not believe in social progress, which obviously unites those who rule at the time the Communist Party and the Left Block, who today represent this anachronistic vision of social development and of what it is to believe that people can go up to the fruit of their work and the just application of the income they can get with that work. This is what happens to many reformers today, who, with their savings, were able to make real estate investments in order to prepare their old age.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u104	All right! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u105	And what does the PCP say? It says: « These people save throughout their lives, have worked and acquired these buildings, but they are now at the service of the State for social action». The PCP also has this position. If it is to contractualize with individuals who have a vocation for certain functions, whether in health or education, you are against and say that it cannot be, because private individuals cannot replace the States in these essential functions, but if they are the reformers or the emigrants doing social action in the lease policy, you think very well. They believe that it is not the state that has to do but, yes, that they are the owners, reformed, I repeat, with often low reforms, and emigrants who have their savings here, who have to replace the state by doing this social policy. That is not the vision we have, that is not the vision — and well! — the legislative amendment in 2012, which was also implemented in a PSD / CDS government, was nothing more than what had already been announced by a minister of the Internal Administration of a Government of the Socialist Party, which was by chance called António Costa, and of what the Socialist Party included as a compromise in the Memorandum of the Troika it has negotiated. Therefore, it is appropriate to know that this reform was necessary for the country; it was aware of it by those who did, but it was also aware of it by those who had ruled before and brought the country to the situation to which it led. In 2012, from the point of view of the lease, what was the situation? We had a paralysed lease market, no housing offer. We had the edifice returned and abandoned in the centers of the big cities... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] The gentlemen. Members may no longer remember, but it is good to remember what city centers were in 2010, 2011 or 2012 and see what they are now. There is no comparison, from the point of view of the state of dwellings and urban rehabilitation, between what existed and what exists today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u107	Then there was the problem of the high indebtedness of families. You may not remember, either, but we remember very well the successive extensions of subsidized credit to housing, made by the Socialist Party, because, not having the courage to make the rent reform, I tried to go « around», rewarding the credit, contributing to the indebtedness of families and, in many cases, to poor credit and to the crisis in the banking sector. A crisis that, in many cases, based these credit subsidies on housing that created a reality of purchasing power for acquisition, that in practice did not exist for people who should have access to the lease market, but who, as they did not have access to that market, followed by a much more complex way that owed them throughout their lives and would cost the State itself, the way of acquiring their own housing. On the other hand, there was also a huge difficulty and limitation to social and geographical mobility, as well as a civil construction sector that was, at that time, completely stopped. I draw attention to the fact that it is appropriate to compare what was happening in the civil construction sector in the time when the Socialist Party led the country to bankruptcy with the reality of this sector, very important for the national economy, at the end of the PSD / CDS governance, the dynamization that was introduced in this sector and the difference that it made in the product and in our economic growth. So the reform has been done in the right direction and we have no problem in assuming it. As a reform of a market that has been halted for decades, it was obviously necessary not only a period of adaptation but also social awareness measures to make the impact bearable by those who have less resources. That was what was done at the time and, therefore, the problem was only later. What happened? After a law which had these protection mechanisms, the Socialist Party could never take either of the two positions: either revoke that whole regime and return to the previous situation or have the courage — in this it is right the CFP — to have mechanisms that, from a social point of view, would correct injustices that existed in the application of the law. in this impasse, we have come to the absurdity of the Socialist Party to say that, now, it is necessary to wait for the Census. Who pushed the belly for six years, not assuming one thing or another, not assuming to repeal the law because he knows that it is necessary and also not assuming a need for social policy that cannot be done by the landlords and that has to be done by the State itself, deserves very well, although it is not the best legislative practice, which the CFP does now: to force them to choose. It's boring, but it really has to be true, because it's not worth the Socialist Party, after six years, to say it's waiting for the Census. It is a shame not to realize that in a public policy like this, they had to take responsibility, they had to understand what was in question, they had to protect the tenants, they had to understand the landlords and the market, in order not to confront the reality that currently exists: the lease market is far worse now than when you began to govern. That should be enough for them to do something, but they didn't. This will remain with the Socialist Party, with its responsibility, because there are no elections or electoral promises that are worth this irresponsibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have a request for clarification from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u109	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u110	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u111	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera's request for clarification will become an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u112	Therefore, there is no further request for clarification, as it has been converted into intervention. But before that, there is an inscription of the PS, also for an intervention. Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Hearing the right to intervene in this debate soon gives us the feeling that there is a feeling of guilt on the side of the CDS and the PSD in relation to the governance measures until 2015 and the negative impact they had on rent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u114	I said I was proud of what had been done!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the great cause of the 'overheating' of the value of income is called 'Crist law' and there are thousands and thousands of tenants who do not forget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u116	If you find that out, revoke the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u117	They do not forget and this was the main cause of the 'overheating' of the value of income. More, sirs. Members, we also do not forget that one of the first measures of this political cycle, in 2016, was to vote a bill to end the execution of penhoras of houses of household for tax debts. And we remember which side were the CDS and PSD: they voted against this measure! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u118	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u119	Mr President, if the will of the PSD and the CDS-PP prevailed today, thousands and thousands of families had already been cleared of tax debts. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] This did not happen because there was a left-wing majority led by the Socialist Party that prevented it. in the same way, we did not stop making a path for the protection of tenants, respecting, of course, the balance that must exist in the rental market between landlords and tenants. That's how we passed the Housing Basics Act on the left. If there were any doubts on the side on which the Housing Bases Act was approved, just remember which side was right: the PSD and the CDS-PP were against it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we should be proud of the great advance that was, in terms of housing and protection of tenants and the lease market, the Basics of Rent Law,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as well as the major changes to the urban lease regime, the creation of a rental injunction system, to balance with the National Rental Balcony, which is already implemented, because it comes from the Housing Bases Act. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Obviously, we passed it on the left, as well as a whole set of measures to protect tenants.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u120	What about last week? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u121	Mrs. Member of the Left Block and Mrs. Members of the CFP today, if there were no such measures arising from the Housing Base Law, adopted in the amendment to the New Urban Rent Scheme on the left, thousands and thousands of tenants would have been cleared and not yet in their homes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Afonso de Oliveira.]] Therefore, the way is to follow this set of measures and this policy so that there is always a balance in the rental market between landlords and tenants. This is taking place with the greatest ever reinforcement of public housing policy, which Portugal has never followed until today, and is due to the impulse of the left led by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u122	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course, the observation angles are very different, but we all realize that the law of the lease in force did not serve to increase the levels of lease, on the contrary, what was found was precisely a reverse movement, that is, what this law did was promote the evictions and that is more than evident. Do it to many families, keep doing it to many families, and that is what you have to face and not keep pushing forward. The more speculation the "Cristan law" were and continue to be an explosive mixture that emptied the city centers and denied the right to housing to many Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u124	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u125	Mr President, I am sorry that I do not have time to answer, I am very sorry, because I would like you to explain to us how, with a law as good as the one they defend here, if you give situations like the one we watch with the homes of fidelity. Do you still remember that? [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] How did such a guarantee law for tenants cause these families to be informed, one day at a time, that they had 120 days to deliver the keys? How did this law so good, so you hear here, make 150 families, some of them that rented houses 30 years ago, many elderly, some of them bedridden, be expelled from their homes? Oh, my God! Some of these people continue, to this day, with "the neck rope"! How can you defend this law? How could this law, being so good, not be able to respond to these tenants? I am very sorry that I cannot answer these questions. It is that those who come here knock on their chest and say that they defend the lords, do not defend the landlords with the correct, honest and human practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u126	No, they're scumbags!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u127	You defend real estate funds. These are the gentlemen you defend!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u128	Oh, my God! Please!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u129	Therefore, this is the point of the matter and those who do not agree with these practices, with the support of real estate funds, could well put themselves on the right side and pass a new law. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u130	But they agree. It's just conversation! They agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u131	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD is concerned about the time the country and Portuguese are facing and, for this reason, we are sensitive and show solidarity to the many thousands of Portuguese who need, at this critical stage of recovery of the pandemic crisis, more than ever, the support of the State. We are discussing a bill on an extraordinary regime of protection and support for tenants. Thus, for us, it is not indifferent to the whole course carried out so far in terms of the lease market. Unfortunately, the lease has been the target of advances and retreats that have been tragic for the true assertion of the lease market in Portugal. What we have after decades of market freezing is a accumulation of strategic errors, which have led to successive income freezes, as well as obstacles and constraints to the possibility of non-renewal of contracts. This is a lack of strategy for the lease that culminated in the growing degradation of the built park, the exponential increase of devolved houses and an untied urban expansion on the outskirts of large cities, which today does not go from dormitories to those working in large centers, with the constant increase of problems that these realities entail from the point of view of mobility, transport, security and housing of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u133	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u134	These policies led to the gradual transformation of historic centers into barren and uninhabited places, with devolved buildings, with bad living conditions and, in many cases, in ruin. The new urban lease legal regime, approved in 2012, combined with other reforms, allowed us to initiate the reversal of this sad reality. Yes, the reform was taking its course and the reality of the numbers proved it. The data are official, are known and are published, plus 266 000 new leases in 2016, plus 84 000 in 2017. Today, we have no doubt that these results would have been much better than this Parliamentary left, which today proposes measures to support tenants, have continued to protect the freezing of income only for one purpose: not to pay the income allowance due to the elderly and people with disabilities. Yes, these results would have been much better if they were not disastrous statements like those of Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, that it was necessary to lose the shame and go get money to whom I was accumulating it. With this intention, the additional IMI (municipal property tax) was born which, today, constitutes an important source of tax revenue for the State, harming thousands of Portuguese. [[BE's protests.]] Although they criticize the government's action in relation to the country's economic and financial recovery, it is true that the existence of a real lease market has become recognized. They criticize, yell loudly, they often lie to the Portuguese to try to get your lies to become truths,... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] ... but it happens that there has been an increasing fixation of citizens of other nationalities, of very high intellectual, economic and social potential, and at the same time foreign investment in the real estate market has grown. But after the 2012 policy reversal measures were introduced, there was such an immediate decline in lease contracts, a brutal disinvestment on the part of the landlords and a breach of confidence on the part of investors. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if the outcome of these policies has brought added value to the rental market. Another question I leave is if there are more real estate to rent. Is there a decrease in the price of income? Don't! Indeed, there are no more real estate on the market and prices have not, on the contrary, dropped prices — and much — and create serious problems in access to housing for young couples. The Parliamentary left suffers from a number of misconceptions about the substance of the public policies implemented. The first is a mistake in the perception of reality. The left did not realize that the problem of people's lives, in this case tenants, is not in the law of lease, is in reality the country faced and faced. [[BE's protests.]] Portugal came out of a deep financial crisis, in which it was placed by irresponsible socialist governments, and then plunged into a global pandemic crisis of unprecedented contours. [[PSD applause.]] The second misunderstanding is that, in a socialist way, whenever faced with a problem, the solution pointed out is always for responses based on the macrocephaly of the large metropolitan areas, forgetting that the country is more than Lisbon and Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u136	We recognize that this is an easier way, but we do not understand that they continue to put the country at two speeds to the detriment of those who live outside the major centers. Not enough misconceptions, the left adds the deep ideological prejudice against private property, as is expressed in the defense of the protection of the freezing of incomes, the imposition of vital contracts, the guaranteed renewal of contracts, the prohibition of evictions, changes in the rules of right of preference. This, yes, Mr. João Paulo Correia, prevents a real lease market! But there is still an unheard-of measure, Mr President, which is the so-called 'temporary property requirement', which is no longer a return to gonçalvism and wild nationalisations. [[PSD applause.]] This becomes all the more incomprehensible insofar as the State, being the largest owner in Portugal, with thousands of devolved and degraded property, of which it does not treat or care, can still expropriate the owner force to solve, on the account of those, a problem that is the State itself. These are the red lines of our parliamentary debate and clearly distinguish us from the left of Parliament. We will never support public housing policies at the expense of the landlords. We reject legislative amendments that constitute real attacks on private property and that turn landlords into social security extensions, but we will also intransigently defend tenants, especially the elderly and the most in need. It happens that this protection, being absolutely necessary, must be carried out by the State itself and not by the imposition of the State on the account of those who did not contribute to the existence of situations of social deficiency. Our policies will always be thinking about the country as a whole, thinking about the dynamization of the lease market, thinking about the legislative stability and thus creating confidence in the citizens, not leaving a social-democratic view of protection to the most needy, protecting who must be protected. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u137	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At present, nobody questions the importance of housing in public policies, even though over the decades it has been a forgotten pillar. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is very proud of the way in which housing has taken place over the past six years. Even if others, in a propaganda logic, forget the advances, minimize them and remove the responsibilities in the recent vote of the State budget, which prevented budgetary increases and the resolution of concrete problems in the area of housing, the Socialist Party is very proud of the work done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, the Socialist Party voted in favour of the Budget, contrary to what other interventions have tried to make it clear, and these parties are responsible for the lead of it. Housing is a constitutional right and the basis for other rights such as employment, education or health. Without this vector, there is no dignity. And those who do not have a ceiling and suffer from cold and heat do not have minimum conditions of dignity to live. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the decades, we have not responded as a society to this challenge. For years, the logic of the market and its free functioning was the rule. The market all solved and the so-called market failures were nothing more than side effects. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite having been approved in the last Parliament the Basics of Housing Act, the rules of which are now in the final phase, it is important to stress that the parliamentary right voted against, and voted against because it has always been against public intervention in the area of housing. in this legislature, we witness a progressive and advanced implementation of Program 1. the law and structural responses based on the strengthening of the public housing park. That way, the 1st. the law is a program that is integrated into a new generation of public housing policies, aiming to promote housing solutions for the most deprived families. More than 100 local housing strategies have already been adopted throughout the national territory, with concluding agreements that enable more than 35 000 families to respond. We should not forget that, in addition to Programme 1. the law, we find even more two key investments: the first consists in the creation of a public park at affordable costs; the second concerns the National Stock Exchange of Urgent and Temporary Housing, a structured response to the needs of emergency and transitional accommodation. I would also like to recall what has been done in terms of legislative progress with regard to the protection of tenants and the stability of the lease. This is a matter of great sensitivity and which has merited the legislative attention of the Government and Parliament, with a view to completely correcting a law against the social spirit, the "Cristas law", and also introducing a set of changes that aim to strengthen the mechanisms for the guarantee and protection of tenants and their stability. The main measures highlight the prohibition on harassment in renting and forecasting ways of reacting against behaviors that may constitute harassment of the strongest part in relation to the weakest part. We know what the alternative to the right is. We well remember the 'law of eviction', one of the blindest and unjustest laws Parliament has in mind. On the so-called NRAU — the work standard that avoided evictions — there was such a solution in the State budget, which the left parliament wanted to reprove, because there was an answer to this problem which has difficulties in achieving it. And, yes, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have missed the call to protect the weakest part! Another central point of the projects is the COVID-19 pandemic. From the first moment that it was evident the need to protect permanent housing without, however, unprotecting the landlords. contrary to what some discontinuous voices on the right, creating noise in a sector that is already in a complicated situation, the measures that have been adopted have allowed a fair balance between landlord and landlord, mitigating possible abuses and safeguarding, above all, the right to housing as a fundamental right, and even at times like this, Parliament has always given a positive answer. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this way, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to work to defend the weakest and most vulnerable part of Portuguese society. As always, they can count on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to find solutions that we always defend for a public housing of quality and that will enable us to respond to the interests of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u139	With no further registrations, we are now moving to the closing phase. The PCP shall accumulate the time available, of 7 minutes and 11 seconds, to the additional period of 2 minutes defined for closure. To that end, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the Parliamentary Group of the CFP allocated this power debate and chose the subject in question, it did so with the notion of the very serious social problem that is the problem of housing in Portugal and the need to find very diverse answers. We know that there is a very significant set of dimensions of this housing problem and that many of them go through a substantive response not only because of the construction of public housing, but also because of the changes to the lease rules, in particular with the repeal of the "Cristas law" or "the waste law", as you would like to call it, and with the approval of a real lease regime that protects and guarantees the right to housing through lease. We brought these proposals to the debate last September and decided that it was not about them that the Assembly of the Republic needed to speak in these last days of the legislature, which will end soon. Therefore, we brought to the Assembly of the Republic the discussion of a bill with measures that constitute an exceptional and temporary lease protection regime, measures that, precisely because of its urgency, justify the legislative agenda and the urgency in the deliberations by the Assembly of the Republic. For the ladies and gentlemen. Members who may already be disconnected from the reality that forced the adoption of these measures not yet two years ago, I recall that the first case of COVID-19 infection in our country was identified on 2 March 2020 and that 17 days later it was being published in the Diarioda República to Law No. 1 -A / 2020, with a set of exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the epidemic caused by COVID-19, which included in its Article 8. the, the measures that the CFP today brought back to the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if in March 2020 it was necessary to take exceptional and temporary measures of protection for tenants, this is the first finding and the first unequivocal proof that the urban lease regime we have today in Portugal does not serve to protect tenants. And it does not serve to protect tenants because in the face of a disaster as a result of an epidemic, the risk of housing loss has been identified as one of the main risks, requiring these urgent measures that were taken in March 2020. This one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a finding that has been made for a long time. It was not only in 2012 that this was observed when the amendments that gave rise to the "Cristas law" were discussed here, it was observed over the years. In fact, we have been drawing attention to the situations of deprotection so that this "Cristas law" pushed the renters of our country, to the successive situations of eviction, of deprotection of families, particularly of people in a situation of special vulnerability that the law did not protect and who have come to lose their housing over time. Today, the Parliamentary Group of the PCP was reminded of the truly dramatic example of the 150 families who were leased and lost their homes practically from day to night, because, in the business done by Fidelity with a real estate fund, the need to clear those families in order to ensure real estate speculation and thus to obtain millions of profits was placed. If there have not been enough dramatic situations over these years to prove the lack of protection to which tenants are subject by the « law Cristos», I ask: what more needs to happen in our country in order to be effectively recognized? This truly explosive conjugation of the "Cristas law" with real estate speculation, particularly that which we saw between 2016 and 2019, has transformed what was previously concerns in the finding of a reality that is really dramatic in relation to housing and in a situation that could have been resolved also in that period. This is because, also between 2015 and 2019, in the previous legislature, this problem could have been solved by repealing the 'Cristan law' and approving an appropriate lease scheme. Why didn't there be such a decision? Because the PS constituted itself as a blocking force to these solutions. [[PCP applause.]] Instead of ensuring the repeal of the ‘Cristan law’ and the approval of a lease scheme that effectively protected the leasers, the PS chose to maintain the ‘Cristan law’ and only take decisions to extend the work standard in respect of contracts prior to 1990 and leasers over 65 years of age or with disabilities. The circumstances in which we are today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a direct consequence of these PS options. It did not have the PS, in the previous legislation, pushed this problem with the belly, with the extension of those standards for more than five years, and the PS had accompanied the PCP proposals to revoke the "Cristan law" and create an urban lease regime genuinely concerned with the protection of tenants today, we did not have to be concerned about the date on which the work standard will cease to produce effects, from which all lease holders of lease contracts prior to 1990 will be subject to the speculative rise of income and eventually subject to the eviction due to the inability to bear these income increases. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from the parties to the right of the PS there are no new arguments. It is the ideology of business against the ideology of defending the right to housing. It is the ideology of the transformation of the State into the armed arm of the evictions against the ideology of the defense of housing as a right and of the right to stability and to the protection of the lease as part of this right to housing that the Constitution enshrines. Neither the PSD, nor the CDS, nor its most reactionary successors heard a word that was of concern to the tenants. Even when we were talking about urban renting and not renting the places of the lists of the Arrival, which then quickly give off who is elected, when we were talking about urban renting and the right to housing, there was no element of concern, not even when we were dealing with the income of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, sir. PSD members, when we are dealing with renting and the proposals that the PCP has brought to the discussion today, we are also dealing with the protection of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have to bear exorbitant incomes and who are subject to the speculative rise of incomes, a situation with which you do not care. Here, too, we have once again the ideology of the big business against micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, whom the PSD has never defended, as they had already done in the past, when we discussed in this House the proposals of the PCP for the protection of these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are leasers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech by saying the following: in this debate, we do not understand what the PS wants. The PS says that in the budget proposal there were initiatives precisely to extend the duration of this work standard. Today, at the initiative of the CFP, it says that these initiatives do not serve. Furthermore, the PS says: “We are concerned about the rental situation and, depending on the evaluation of the Censuses, we will be able to resolve the problem later.” Today, in the face of proposals that could prevent these problems from happening, the PS says that they are not necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u141	Mr. João Oliveira, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u142	I conclude, Mr. President. The approval of the CFP proposals points to tenants the possibility of having their problems solved. It seems that the PS does not want to solve the problems in order to have proposals in its electoral programme. We have left this last challenge: think if what must weigh more is the solution to the problems of tenants or have an electoral programme to dispute the elections on 30 January. It is that the worst thing could happen, after they had not wanted the Budget to be able to have elections, it was now, above all, that they did not want to solve the problems in order to have proposals in the electoral programme. Bad service to tenants, bad service to those who claim to defend the right to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u143	Mr. João Oliveira, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u144	That challenge remains. Voting the CFP proposals, they generally approve them in the global final vote, and here we will be in the next Parliament to solve all the other problems that will continue to be solved, because these too, the PS, so far, did not want to solve them. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u145	Mr. Deputies, you miss that I had to draw your attention to time. This concludes the debate of Bill No. 1014 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ), as a general rule, we consider the Proposal for Law No 119 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) — Regulation of the application of special contributions for the year 2022. To begin the debate, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law which the Government brings today to the Assembly of the Republic is that during the presentation of the State budget for 2022 the renewals of contributions to the energy sector, the contribution to the banking sector and its additional contribution to the pharmaceutical sector, the contribution of medical devices and also the additional of the IUC ( single circulation tax) have been proposed. The fact that Parliament has brought down the proposal for a State budget made it possible to raise the question of whether, in relation to these contributions, there would have been an express intention of rejecting them. in this sense, in order to give legal certainty to those who are the recipients of the contributions, the Government felt it important to bring this bill to the Assembly of the Republic, so that the ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Members may express their views on the maintenance in force of the special contributions presented here. I am, of course, at the disposal of any matter which they consider appropriate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u147	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The State budget, whose proposal was dropped here a few weeks ago, constituted a real touch of management finishes, at least in its version 1.0. Management has been disappointed, but only a few weeks later, when it comes to statising the economy or creating 'extraordinary' taxes, taxes which are temporary until they become definitive and which only demonstrate one thing, for the socialists, it is easy to find new ways of charging people money. And the evidence is that they are preparing to approve this legislative remedy at the only point where they can agree: more taxes. In this regard, it is important to leave two notes. First note: on the vast list of taxes that the Government tries to raise is not the additional to the ISP (Oil and Energy Products Tax). Is the PS recognising the error made with the introduction of this tax or is it simply in electoral mode, afraid to reintroduce an unpopular tax before the elections? Second note: is the Government aware that, in arguing that this diploma is imposed on grounds of « legal certainty », it is giving strength to taxpayers'arguments that, following the retroactive application of many of these taxes in the 2016 and 2020 budgets, have entered into legal dispute with the State? The state must be a good person, starting with consistency in the arguments it uses and abuses to collect money from people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u149	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today's debate, contrary to what a simplistic view might wish to pass, is not about taxing people anymore, it is about tax justice, about demanding solidarity from the sectors that have the most and most can, especially in the context of a crisis like the one we are living in. This proposal aims to ensure that several special contributions continue to exist next year, something which, without this proposal, will not happen due to the lead of the State budget. In other words, if this proposal is to be sucked, the additional solidarity on the banking sector will no longer be in force next year, which we have adopted here in the 2020 Supplementary Budget and which is in force this year. We are talking about a contribution to ensure the sustainability of social security through funding from the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security and which in 2020 generated a revenue of EUR 34 million. Does it make sense that a sector that only generated total public expenditure between 2008 and 2018 of more than EUR 25 billion would be saved by the lead of the State budget? Oh, my God! Can we even abdicate this revenue, when it is known that this fund will be exhausted in the early 1950s and that the social security balance will be deficient by 2030? Oh, my God! What is different is whether we should go on the easy way of, year after year, extend the duration of legislation approved 10, 6 or 7 years or whether we should improve it. We understand that there are necessary changes and we will propose them in the field of specialty. One of the cases in which these changes are needed is that of the extraordinary contribution on the suppliers of the SNS medical device industry, since, according to its design, there is no innovation in our market and there is until the withdrawal of some fundamental products to the provision of health care. On the one hand, it seems to us that this contribution should be applied in tenders, contracts and agreements concluded or submitted after the entry into force of the State Budget Act, something which safeguards the previously established situations and does not frustrate the expectations of companies in the negotiation and conclusion of contracts and agreements with institutions of the SNS. It is also necessary to ensure that, at the same time as requiring the payment of contributions to these suppliers, the State, on the other hand, makes an effort to reduce late payments, something that does not exist in the current framework. Finally, since 2020 we have seen an effort by companies that have invested in innovation, for example, for the development of diagnostic tests for COVID-19. This effort has to be recognized and the minimum that this Parliament can make, in this sense, is to ensure the exemption of payment of the rate in the value of sales of SARS-CoV-2 diagnostic tests, a measure of the most basic justice. Having said that, the NAP will vote in favour of this proposal and that there will be an opening in the field of expertise to alert the concerns we are pointing out here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u151	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : It proposes that the Government extend to 2022 the extraordinary contributions, particularly on the banking sector, on the energy sector, on the pharmaceutical industry and also the contribution created to reduce public charges with the acquisition of medical devices for the SNS. On the other hand, it also proposes to ensure the application of the additional IUC for gas oil vehicles. The vote of the CFP, in response to this Government initiative, will be in favour. However, we do not fail to show that, even with these contributions, there remains a strong scenario of fiscal injustice, in which the large economic groups of these sectors, and other sectors, continue to have at their disposal a number of 'coals' which make effective taxation on these multinationals much less than is supported by the generality of workers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We're talking about the use of offshores to hide dubious incomes and to escape taxes. We are talking about countries with clearly more favourable tax regimes, where European Union countries such as Malta, Ireland, the Netherlands or Luxembourg are included, where they run away from the holding offices in order to avoid the payment of taxes in Portugal. We speak of the exemptions provided for in the IRC Code (the income tax of the public) and the Tax Benefit Statute, which allow profits made in Portugal not to be taxed in the country. We are talking about a wide range of tax benefits to which the government and the PS would like to add a re-editation of the tax credit to investment provided for in the 2020 Supplementary Budget, which counted on the vote against the CFP and which only served to give tax stamps to large companies. We are talking about situations such as the scandal of the sale of concessions on the dams of Miranda Land, a business between EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) and ENGIE of EUR 2200 million, which, with the complacency and support of the Government, continues to pay the tax due, as well as contribute to the segmentation of the fundamental electro-productive network. We speak even about the extraordinary contribution on the bank, created in order to ensure a contribution from this sector, at the time when all Portuguese faced enormous sacrifices, and which today serves to give the bank a privilege that no other sector has: a tax directly assigned to the resolution of the sector itself. We are also talking about the liberalization rates, the non-application of compulsory housing from a certain level of income, which means that labour income is taxed at an average rate much higher than that of capital income, problems which the Government did not want to give a solution beyond the symbolic. This is the scenario of the tax system of privilege that large economic groups continue to benefit, while workers, pensioners and small businesses continue to bear high tax burdens, not only in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), aggravated for the lowest incomes, as a result of rejection over the years of the PCP proposals to increase the minimum existence and specific deduction, but also in VAT (tax on value added) where essential goods such as electricity and gas continue to be taxed at 23 % instead of 6 %, or in fuels, without any tax relief measures combined with the fixing of a maximum price scheme. The bill, extending some contributions, does not change this framework of a strong fiscal policy with the weak and weak with the strong. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u153	For an intervention, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presentation of this bill demonstrates, to the satisfaction, the complexity of the Portuguese tax system. If we had a simple tax system, with taxes and taxes, we all knew what we had to pay, an investor knew what to pay, in a clear and transparent way. This has not been the practice of the Portuguese legislator: extraordinary contributions that then become permanent; additional on the extraordinary contribution; additional to taxes; special contributions... And, Mr. Secretary of State, if necessary, the Portuguese language is rich and can still find other adjectives to create more taxes for people and companies to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u156	Unfortunately, there is no courage to say « we need money, we want money, we want to charge more and that is why we need to keep eternal fees, contributions, additional contributions», which have often been created to be punctual. And that's why we've reached the highest tax burden ever in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u157	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u158	Now, when we arrived here, the government was confronted with the reality that these contributions would expire and hence the need to clarify and prolong their existence in time. And quickly, because he cannot abdicate this revenue, he brings a bill to Parliament. Paradoxically, he was concerned only with wanting « to clarify» in the words of the Secretary of State, or to extend in time the contributions for which we could be at risk of concluding that they expired from 1 January — « what is to bring out the taxpayer, to the company or to the family, we will already present, not the devil weave them». On the other hand, as regards other measures which are in favour of families or businesses, and for which there may also be doubts as to whether or not they are extended over time, this concern has not been in the mind of the Government when presenting this bill. Do you want me to set an example? The non-increase in procedural costs. If this is not provided for in the proposed law, they shall be automatically increased on 1 January.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u159	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u160	This proves how the government has two weights and two measures: « Whatever it is to pick up, let's do it; whatever is for families or businesses, it is soon seen, and if it is not done better, because people even pay more». [[PSD applause.]] That is why, Mr Secretary of State, we say that nothing that comes from government proposals is neutral. We must always have all the senses on alert, read in the lines and in the interlines, because we are used to your position, which is very clear: to get the most out, to have the tax burden at most. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u161	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I believe that the first thing that is important to clarify with regard to this proposal is the obvious fact that the State budget for 2022 has not passed. Therefore, what we are discussing is a kind of micro-state budget for 2022, moreover, it is as if the PS said 'good, in relation to the Budget in its generality we cannot agree, but in this respect there should be management agreement and, from there, we will propose a budget only from the point of view of revenue'. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if a budget has revenue and expenditure it is not by chance. It only makes sense for the State to collect revenue, charge taxes if it is to then have expenses, and Parliament can assess where that money goes. What the government is asking for is an extension and a blank check, saying 'to charge, we can understand ourselves, then having no agreement as to how we will spend the money, we will soon decide during the election campaign'. I'm very sorry, but blank checks don't seem very sensible to me. At the time when the budget was not approved, all we heard was: « We do not know how we will run European funds. Attention that the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) is there, and without budget, it is not known how European funds will be executed ». Interestingly, what appears here urgently is nothing about the implementation of European funds, but rather the collection of extraordinary taxes and contributions. It is still very relevant what are the priorities that appear in this proposal. Another thing that matters to say is this: what we are discussing is contributions of a completely different nature. The first is 2010 and the latter are 2020, so there is a 10-year interval between them. Some have reason because the country was going through a very difficult situation — it seems to me that it is not going through now, others have reason because they served for certain funds and others have environmental justification. They're very different cases. What the Government has proposed is not that these contributions should be examined and that what is to be ordinary, what is to be forever and what is to be exceptional, so that, when the exceptional situation that justifies them disappears, they are removed from the legal system. What the Government is proposing is: "We'll extend this one more year and then we'll see and see how it gets." That's a blank check and blank checks we can't pass. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u163	Mr Vera Braz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, this intervention begins with a value: EUR 400 million. This is the value that is at stake with the proposal put forward by the Government. Mr Duarte Pacheco, it is not the government that does not abdicate this revenue, are the Portuguese that do not abdicate this extraordinary revenue of EUR 400 million, which contribute to the sustainability of such important areas as the energy sector, such as social security or the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u166	I would like to ask Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, who will certainly have the opportunity to answer later, in which these areas would be cut if we did not have these extraordinary contributions. As for the National Health Service, I would like to mention the importance of funding the fund for innovative medicines, a real contribution to unlocking research and therapeutic innovation for drugs that are tendingly expensive and that improve the quality of life of patients. We all remember, of course, the case of baby Matilde, who needed the most expensive medicine in the world and who mobilized the country, having obtained a 100% participation by the Portuguese state.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u167	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u168	This is what we are talking about: allowing the continuity of the collection of values that enable us to maintain the adoption of policies that benefit people. This proposal and consequent discussion on contributions — some date back to 2010, others to 2014, the latter created by a PSD / CDS government, and have been extended in all Budgets, having only two been created last year — exists only because we are in a vacuum caused by the failure to approve the State Budget for 2002, to which the PS is alien and whose risk of non-continuity of essential measures and policies to improve the quality of life of the Portuguese will be attributed to those who voted against this Budget. This government does not relinquish its responsibilities. Aware of the need for sustainability of commitments made in such important areas, the Government submits this proposal to ensure legal certainty as to the maintenance of the required contributions and to avoid jeopardising the realization of this expenditure, in which, by strengthening, those affected by their failure to perform it would be the Portuguese, their well-being and their quality of life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u169	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Left Block does not oppose these contributions, because they are important. I think they are relatively consolidated in the system, although in the form of an extraordinary contribution. And they are renewed annually in the State budget. Three of these contributions were created by the PSD/CDS government, so I think the right will agree with them until they are created. Although the rest were subsequently created, at least in the case of the bank's contribution, I believe that the PSD/CDS Government has lived well with them throughout its mandate. These contributions are relatively stable in the tax system, in the broad sense, and their funds have a destination. These are not any blank checks, they are established contributions that have a source of revenue and an associated destination. These contributions finance the State and allow a fairer distribution of the tax effort. contrary to what has been said, in which they stated that these contributions serve to raise money for people or to increase the tax burden on people, I remember that we are talking not about people but about the banking sector, the pharmaceutical sector, the medical industry and the EESC (extraordinary contribution on the energy sector), that is, large electric producers. It is these 'people' that the right is speaking, in order to prevent such contributions from being covered. I would also like to mention a question about the bank and the contribution it made to fund the Resolution Fund. After so many discussions the Government had, saying that it was the bank that financed the Resolution Fund, which was not the State's money that financed the Resolution Fund, after all, the Government is asking the Assembly of the Republic to renew a tax that is revenue from the State and it will then be sent to the Resolution Fund for the payment of the debt that the bank has to the Resolution Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u171	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u172	Mr Secretary of State, it is necessary to clarify this point. Of two, one : either is the bank that pays to the Resolution Fund or, then, is a tax that the State charges to the bank — which, in fact, was created before the Resolution Fund was created — and then is sent to the Resolution Fund for payment of the debt. In addition to this small issue, I conclude by saying that these measures are fair. Since the Government requests and believes that it needs legal certainty in order to protect the State in its collection, which is also fair, we consider that there is no reason not to grant such legal certainty to the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u173	With no further inscriptions, you have the floor Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by answering the questions put by Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. First, the additional ISP is an additional created in 2004 and is incorporated in the unit rates of this tax. This means that every year, what is proposed in the State Budget is a provision of up to a limit of EUR 30 million from this additional ISP to the Permanent Forestry Fund. Therefore there is no other reason on the part of the Government than that of the need to ensure this revenue because it is already incorporated in the unit rates of ISP. Secondly, Mr President, yes, this is a bill that provides legal certainty and does not call into question the disputes of the State, on the contrary. The legal security that is at issue is in the sense of predictability for the recipients of these contributions, because if this rule had not been expressly piped, we would not need to come to Parliament to present it, as indeed happened in the State Budget for 2020, which was presented before 31 December but was only approved later. What is at stake is the fact that Parliament has, legitimately, decided to bring the State budget down. Together with the lead of the State budget, these contributions were also dropped, which could give rise to the idea that the legislator intended to eliminate these contributions. It was to undo this degree of uncertainty that we presented this proposal to Parliament. Mr Nelson Silva has raised some questions that need to be clarified. Mr President, with regard to the contribution on medical devices, it is expressly planned to deduct costs from innovation. That is why the honourable Member's concern is already in the law. On the other hand, the law also provides for the subjective non- incidence of this contribution for all those who make price agreements with the National Health Service. Therefore, by reaching price agreement with the SNS, they are exempted from making the payment of this contribution, as is the case with the contribution on the pharmaceutical industry. I believe that the honourable Member is thus left with his questions clarified. Then there were a number of questions raised, in particular by the right-wing benches, which left me extremely startled. Mr Duarte Pacheco used the expression « get the taxpayer ». I would like to ask the honourable Member whether he also used that expression when his Government — I repeat, his Government — created the contribution on the pharmaceutical industry sector, the contribution on the electrical sector and the additional IUC. It was the PSD who created these contributions, Mr! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The political seriousness is that you say here that when Mr Paul Nuncio came to Parliament (I think the honourable Member was already a Member at that time) he proposed the introduction of an additional of the IUC on light diesel cars using diesel fuel—and he pointed out that it would be to compensate for the difference in the taxation of gas oil in the ISP area, since, as he also said, gasoline is heavily taxed, and so with this increase of the IUC, partial compensation would be provided for that difference, i.e. all that is now being said by the honourable Members. Members say they are against — whether or not they were ‘taking out the taxpayers’ or whether they have only approved what the government's government has asked Parliament to do. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, there are no blank checks. In democracy, there are no blank checks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u175	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u176	The honourable Member is in her right to want to chum the contribution on the electrical sector and the contribution on the banking sector. It's your right! You just can't say you don't know where that money's going. Over the past four years, the EESC has seen EUR 500 million fall in the tariff deficit. I repeat: EUR 500 million, Mrs Deputy. With regard to all the money on the contribution of the banking sector — Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we do not always need to be in disagreement, do not be ashamed of that — this is a revenue assigned to the Resolution Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u177	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u178	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, there are no blank checks. It is for the Resolution Fund to deal with systemic situations in the banking sector itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not come to Parliament to ask for the approval of rules on revenue and to forget other rules that are more favourable to taxpayers. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. What we are doing here is an exercise of great responsibility, because the government is in office — and it is in full function. Depending on the irresponsibility of the head of the State budget, we came here to: renew what are contributions that are intended to alleviate the burden of the SNS, whether with medicines or with medical devices; relieve the burdens of families and businesses with electricity and energy, thereby channeling the money of these contributions to energy; relieve social security after the pandemic crisis, with the additional on the banking sector; and continue to have the conditions to do what the right had not done and that we were able to do these six years, which was the stabilization of the financial system, and hence that contribution from the banking sector. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the same responsibility as always, with the same balance as ever, here is the PS government responding to the country, which is what we are required to do, and not to respond to the demagogy on the right, which now forgets everything that you did when you were in the government and who only thinks about elections, whatever they are. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u179	Mr. Duarte Pacheco asked for the floor, but there is no time for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u180	You don't have, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u181	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u182	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u183	Mr President, I am right, I do not have time, but what I wanted was for the Bureau to be able to explain to Mr. Secretary of State that, in accordance with our rules, after the closure, I cannot answer him why we criticized him for passing on to the finality of what was temporary. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u184	This was clearly an inquiry into the conduct of the work, Mr President. As there are no more entries, we are going to proceed to the votes in the script. 214 are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very strong quorum of deliberation. We will begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 1014 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme of protection and support for tenants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 119 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Regulation of the application of special contributions for the year 2022. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the IL and the PSD abstention.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u185	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u186	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u187	Mr President, I would like to ask you an objective question, which is to know how Mr President has recorded the votes of the House in these two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u188	I did not register, because Mr. Arrega is not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u189	In the electronic framework, Mr Ventura is present when checking the quorum. But I didn't see him voting on any initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u190	He knows that this ‘electronic’ has a lot to say to him. It's very strange. But I made it clear that Mr.Lex was not in the Chamber. In fact, as everyone realizes, it would make a big difference in the final outcome of the vote! Open... Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will now make an announcement. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u191	Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is only to inform the House that Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP was present at the plenary session by means of videoconferencing, because she was in prophylactic isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-17.u192	Having concluded our work for today, it remains to be announced that the next plenary session will take place tomorrow, for 15 hours, and that the agenda, as set by the Block on the Left, will include the assessment of Decree-Law No. 30 / 2021 of 7 May, which proceeds from the regulation of Law No. 54 / 2015 of 22 June with regard to mineral deposits[ Parliamentary Assessments No. 48 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 49 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP and PEV ) and 50 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 55 minutes.]]
