ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our plenary meeting. I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, starting with Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and Mr. Officers of authority, to whom I ask to open the galleries. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] The first item on our agenda is the preparatory debate of the next European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. Before we start the debate, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give you valuable information. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all and to all. They entered the Bureau and were admitted, Law Proposal No 117 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission, and Bills Nos 995 / XIV/ 3. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, and 996 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1473 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1474 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1475 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1476 / XIV/ 3. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 7. the Commission, 1477 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1478 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, and 1479 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us start the first item on the agenda, which has already been announced, with the preparatory debate of the European Council. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the diverse agenda of the European Council, allow me to focus on two points which I think are of greatest importance, the first point on trade policy, given the time available. The European Union has chosen, as a priority, to strengthen its strategic autonomy. The pandemic has made it particularly evident the fragility of the European Union in the production of essential goods, from such basic things as masks to more complex but fundamental elements for the development of all industrial activity, such as the production of chips. This means that Europe must clearly strengthen its ability to relocate much of what it has already produced and has relocated to other regions of the world. We cannot continue to be subjected to such long value chains, where the risk of disruption obviously multiplies. We must therefore bet on Europe's ability to reindustrialise, to re-produce fundamental goods to the functioning of the economy and the economy of the future, and Portugal is particularly well placed to play an important role in the reconstruction of this capacity to reindustrialise Europe. This said, we cannot understand the strengthening of strategic autonomy as a path to isolation or a drift towards protectionism. We want a stronger Europe, but we want a Europe open to the world. Trade policy is therefore fundamental. Moreover, because the great weight Europe can and should have in this global world is the fact that it is one of the world's three largest economies. Our potential is not military, our potential is not demographic, our potential is even economic and must be affirmed through trade policy. From that point of view, we consider it absolutely essential to use trade policy, firstly, to strengthen the transatlantic relationship. It was important to have been able to carry out the first meeting of the EU-US Trade and Technology Council ( CTC ) with the new Biden administration, and there has been a joint cooperation effort between Europe and the United States to recover the technological delay that we have maintained over the past few centuries and that we have been losing in recent decades. But there are more transatlantic relations than relations with the United States and Canada. That is why it is absolutely essential that we conclude the modernisation of the trade agreement with Mexico, move forward in the conclusion of the trade agreement with Chile and, above all, not to waste more time on the trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur, which is the most important economic agreement we can establish. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, it is necessary to take advantage of the momentum that the Portuguese Presidency has given to diversify our position in the Indo-Pacific region. The reopening of the trade agreement negotiations and the investment agreement with India is an opportunity that cannot be wasted, the conclusion of the trade agreement with New Zealand should not be postponed and the negotiations of the trade agreement with Australia should not be contaminated by bilateral conflicts, which, of course, should deserve complete solidarity with our affected European partners, cannot devalue the importance of having a capital position there. If we do not have, we will simply be jealous of the relationship that the United States gives to the region of the Pacific and frightened by the increasing weight of China in that region. Europe must not be jealous, Europe must not be frightened, Europe must also stand out in the Indo-Pacific region and have a way to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second central issue in the debate of this European Council and the most recent one has to do with the exponential increase in energy prices. The study presented by the European Commission is, of course, a key fact: it is not the effort of the climate transition that is contributing to the increase in fuel prices. The price of natural gas is increasing nine times more than the increase in carbon. What it is essential to do to respond to this price increase is to speed up the energy transition so that we can have clean, safe energy and that we can ensure better prices for the consumer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Good example that this is the correct strategy is whether we compare what is happening with the price of fossil fuels and what ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity) announced last Friday for the price of electricity to be practiced next year, taking into account the investment effort that, in recent decades, Portugal has done so that we can today have a 60% share of the electricity we consume with renewable sources. The price of electricity for families will fall 3, 4 % and the cost of access to the networks to be paid by the industries will fall 94 %, which shows well that those who invested in renewable industries are now able to harvest the fruits of this low price. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This means that responding to the emergence of the price situation cannot divert us from the correct path. This means that we need to increase interconnections in the European market in order to have a true integrated and interconnected European market. Secondly, we need to increase interconnections with third countries which can also be a source of clean energy — a case exemplary from Morocco. Thirdly, we have the capacity to diversify energy sources: to bet more on green hydrogen and to increase new gateways to natural gas, which, not being a clean energy, is a transition energy, for which we cannot simply be dependent on Russia, Turkey and Algeria and we must increasingly use ours to strengthen a new area of transatlantic relations. Portugal is already the gateway to one third of the LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) coming from the United States; we must and can increase this quota. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Does this mean that we should ignore short-term measures? Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u5	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u6	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As we know, the proposals put forward by the Commission for the short term do not add anything to all the measures we have already taken in the past. But it is time to effectively discuss a price-forming mechanism, namely whether the price should maintain a marginalistic logic, which clearly penalises countries such as Portugal, where the component of renewable energy industries is already particularly significant. This shows that we must maintain consistency in fighting and facing the climate emergency without disregarding all the measures that need to be taken in a transitional way to respond to this fuel crisis, which we cannot, of course, ignore. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u7	After the government has opened up, we will move on to the debate stage. Mr Pedro Cegonho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: in this debate we look at the agenda for the European Council meeting on 21 and 22 October, in full Slovenian Presidency of the European Union, where European leaders are expected to address the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic, the issues of digital transition, energy, migration and external relations. With regard to combating the pandemic, it is important to stress the success of the common vaccination programme which, under the Portuguese Presidency, has also enabled the European Union to draw the digital certificate, a European achievement which is already a history of international success. This model, which combines technology and individual responsibility of each citizen and citizen, has established a global standard as it is currently the only system in operation internationally. This certificate has been a crucial element in Europe's response to the pandemic and more than 600 million individual certificates have already been issued. This instrument has been essential for the resumption of mobility between Member States, something indispensable and nuclear to the European Union, because without freedom of movement of persons, freedom of movement of services, goods and capital is diminished. It is undeniable that the forms of reaction to the COVID-19 pandemic gave a new impetus to the Union's work to accelerate the digital and technological transition. It is therefore essential that the Union protect and strengthen its digital sovereignty and assert itself in leadership in international digital value chains as essential elements to ensure its strategic autonomy. hence the importance of a good joint design of digital connectivity and the establishment and development of global partnerships that promote global interconnectivity with gains for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This issue is also close to the strategic debate on European Union trade policy ( EU ), as more than 30 million jobs in the EU depend on exports outside the Union. It is therefore important for the Union to focus on the development of the global, multilateral, strong and globally just trade system, but it is also important that it strives to maintain its strategic autonomy by diversifying relations with the various regions of the globe, as the Portuguese Presidency has so well demonstrated by bringing European attention back to investment and trade partnerships with India or by relaunching relations with countries in the Indo-Pacific region such as Australia and New Zealand. It also welcomes the reflection by European leaders on energy issues as a common problem at the heart of Europe's strategic autonomy. But there is no doubt, as in combating the pandemic, that the concerns of citizens and states in terms of access to energy require a common global response, not only from the European Union, because they are a common global problem. With regard to this concern, the European Commission adopted in October a communication on energy prices to address the exceptional increase in world prices and to help European citizens and businesses. The Communication includes a set of measures that the Union can use to respond to the immediate impacts of current price increases and to strengthen resilience against future shocks. There, the Commission underlines the importance of investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency, while also examining possible measures relating to the storage of energy and the acquisition of gas reserves, and assessing the current configuration of the electricity market. In presenting this set of measures, the Commissioner for Energy stated: « The increase in world energy prices is a cause for great concern for the EU. As we leave the pandemic and begin economic recovery, it is important to protect vulnerable consumers and support European companies. The Commission helps Member States to take immediate measures to reduce the impact on families and businesses in this winter. In parallel, we have identified other medium-term measures to ensure that our energy system is more resilient and more flexible to resist any future price volatility along the transition. The current situation is exceptional and the internal energy market has worked well in the last 20 years. However, we must ensure that this operation will work well in the future, implementing the European Ecological Pact, strengthening our energy independence and meeting our climate objectives. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The European Council will also assess the implementation of its conclusions on migration. Here we must show concern about the impact of the situation in Afghanistan. It is important to bring humanitarian aid, combined with the provision of support directed towards basic needs, for the benefit of the Afghan people and neighbouring countries, but also to ensure the solidarity and security of refugees who have fled that country, as well as international cooperation for the prevention of terrorism, the fight against organised crime and smuggling of migrant persons. In the context of external relations, the balance sheet should observe the preparation of COP 15 ( 15 ). the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity to be held in China, and COP 26 ( 26 ). the Conference of the Parties on Climate Change to be held in Glasgow from 31 October to 12 November 2021. of the combination of reflection around biological diversity and climate change, we find the value of the oceans, as expensive to a country as Portugal. Mr Prime Minister recently stressed the importance of the oceans, saying that 'Europe must assume the oceans as a major cause and global mission'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u9	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u10	I would like to end by raising a question to the Government : how will the importance of European consultation for these two meetings in the UN ( United Nations ), and on the horizon the UN Conference of Oceans, which Portugal will host in Lisbon, co-organized with Kenya, from 27 June to 1 July 2022? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u11	Mr Duarte Marques has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We have no doubt that, on the trade policy of the European Union and what Mr. Prime Minister here said, we agree. And we will also agree on the need to have a strong response to the pandemic. But, Prime Minister, this is also a moment of proof of the credibility of the European Union, in the opinion of European citizens. That is why the European Union and the Council have on the agenda some of the most important issues that concern people most, and that is why the energy crisis is a subject that we have to bring here today to try to understand what the government is going to do in this area. It is, Mr. Prime Minister, in 2016, that was Mr. Prime Minister who promised the Portuguese, when he created the additional to the ISP (fuel and energy tax ), the increase on fuel, which would lower it if fuel went up again. I'm not asking you for anything extraordinary, I just remember that you have nothing else to do but keep the word. It is the first solution to solve this problem. [[PSD applause.]] It is that, at a time when the Portuguese most suffer from the price of fuels, Mr. Prime Minister looks like Uncle Patinhas, he just wants to pick up, pick up, pick up, and it was at this stage that they needed most. Mr. Prime Minister, the question I ask you is very simple, and the Portuguese want a frank answer: will it or will it not end with the additional to the ISP? How will you sit at the European Council table, taking into account the proposals of the European Commission to deal with this crisis, and several of them are a transitional reduction in taxes, taxes on people and businesses on energy and fuel? Mr Prime Minister, who created the additional, which raised taxes, what will you do at the Council table? Will you or will you not follow the European Commission's recommendation? And what will you answer when you propose to reduce taxes, since the Prime Minister and his Government have told the Portuguese that reducing taxes was to allow more profit margin to businesses? You know that's not true, you know that's a fallacy. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister: will you follow the Commission's recommendations or not? Will you support the Commission's proposal to buy gas together, as did the vaccines? Will you or will you not follow this recommendation? But, Prime Minister, there is a very simple question I have to ask you, because we ask you nothing extraordinary. I ask you just the following: how long has it been since you didn't supply your car tank? Do you know how much fuel prices have gone up this year? Do you know how much it cost a year ago and how much it costs now? I would like to ask you one last question, Prime Minister, which has to do with the following: in this European Council, the digital transition will be discussed. The question is very simple: is it available to engage, changing the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) and preparing the PT 2030 ( Portugal 2030 ), to make Portugal not a country at various speeds in digital transition? The interior of the country wants to receive people who want to go to work there but do not have technological conditions to do so. While in Portugal 5G is discussed, there are areas in the country that do not have 1G, which do not even have a mobile network. [[PSD applause.]] So is it available to work for the cohesion of the country, the territory, reducing regional asymmetries? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u13	The PSD Parliamentary Group continues to speak, in this case through Mrs Clara Marques Mendes. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I will talk about migration, which is also on the agenda of the European Council. And talking about migration is talking about a moral problem, a legal problem and principles. A moral problem because solidarity cannot be just an ideal, it must be a consistent and constant practice; a legal problem because we know that the subject of migration is protected and guaranteed by international law; and a problem of principles because, being a common area of movement for Europe, it must also be Europe to find common answers to the tragedy of migration and refugees. In fact, Europe cannot deal with unfair and unacceptable selfishness and nationalism, but what has actually happened is that Europe has taken steps, it has found no solutions. It does not find a common, effective and adequate response to this refugee problem and has not been able to respond to the challenges and responsibilities that this issue poses. We know that this matter divides the European Council, Prime Minister, which shows the European Council itself and the world a sign of impotence and insensitivity, I would say, loudly. On the contrary, Portugal has had a good reputation in this matter. The political union that is felt here in Portugal around the concern and solutions for migration has shown that we are on the right track and also that the government is in a position to have greater legitimacy to demand a response that is not enough. So, Prime Minister, I leave you two questions and a challenge. The first question is when the European Union will have an effective and adequate response to the migration problem. Secondly, I ask you what the government is going to present as solutions for this impasse that is living in relation to migration. Finally, I leave you with a challenge: Mr. Prime Minister, use your authority, your power and your influence and help resolve, demand a solution, because this is the time to act, not to resign. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u15	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This will be the first European Council, I believe — at least I have no other record — where the former Austrian Prime Minister, Sebastian Kurz, will not be present. Involved in a scandal of corruption, in fact, as had already happened with the former partner of government — friend of Mr. André Ventura and of the Arrival — also involved in the scandal of corruption,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u17	Looks like Podemos!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u18	... it was the great tellers on behalf of a policy of migration and response to the scourge of wars, which has generated a huge wave of refugees which has made it difficult several of the European Council's dialogues. Therefore, with this change, which proves, of course, that those who greatly value the values, in fact, few or no one have, as is the case with Mr Ventura and several of his partners at national or international level, wanted to ask him whether, on the part of the Portuguese Government, he saw an opportunity for this European Council, in the face of this change and even the fragility of some of the most conservative and opponents of a humanist policy in Europe to respond to the migration crisis, to change some of the policies. The second question I wanted to ask you has to do with how the Portuguese Government looks at a crisis that is structural on a global scale, but which is affecting Europe very much, which is the energy crisis. Mr Prime Minister said that there is indeed a problem in Europe, particularly as a result of the approaching cold and winter as well as the answer given to this problem in northern Europe, which is dependent on fossil fuels to solve it. However, I believe that we also have a structural problem, by combining the energy crisis, resulting from fossil fuels, with a necessary change in our response to climate change and the promotion of a necessary and indispensable energy transition. Mr. Prime Minister says that we now have an opportunity here, but the question I put to him is whether we are able to take this opportunity, because the worst thing we could do to defend the environment was turn people against environmental policies. And there is nothing worse for that danger than, exactly, having a threat in the portfolio to respond to climate change. When we look at the rise of fossil fuels and see what it weighs on the economy, in the lives of families, then we have to frame a structural and long-term response, which is the energy transition, but also an immediate and urgent response to remove that weight from the family portfolio. And my question is very direct: what will the government do about it? It is evident that what you have already done, which has been to reduce a part of the existing ISP overcost, is insufficient for this overcost of fossil fuels to come out of the concern of our country's families. This is, I believe, a question for the Portuguese Government and a question for Europe because several of the answers that are being put on the table are not positive for the environment. We see the debate in France, in which the great solution presented is more nuclear. These are not solutions, these are not answers, they are more problems, or we actually have the ability to have a policy for the future, or we are here to dig even more of the misfortunes ahead. But by putting the issue in France and moving to another aspect of this debate of the European Council, which is the production and increase of production at European level, I noted that almost in a tiny way, Mr Prime Minister presented a structural position of the Portuguese Government in relation to something that has shaken transatlantic confidence. When the United States destroys the business that France had with Australia, of billions of euros in military material, and Mr. Prime Minister here tells us - that it is not time for us to be with various egoisms - indeed, his expression was "to have a jealous view of politics" - it is clearly a turn of the back to Macron, the same Macron of whom two, three years ago Mr. Prime Minister said that it was part of the solutions for Europe. But it is also to place all the tiles on the other side of the Atlantic. With the former President, Trump, we know that Europe didn't count very much, but Biden hasn't shown a vision for Europe much different from the one Trump had. And that is one of the issues that I think is most relevant for us to discuss now, because — and to conclude, Mr President — a Europe that has always put forward in perspective, in its relationship with the world, in what could be done under the reach of the United States,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u19	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u20	...is now an orphan of that perspective and of that strategy and I believe that the Portuguese Government, by insisting on this strategy, must also explain to us what it expects to happen there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u21	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister : I am going directly to some of the issues you have raised here, I would like to start with those of energy, even because these were matters that were not initially on the European Council agenda and which were, however, certainly due to the social alarm which, of course, is causing the consequent rise in energy and fuel prices, which naturally puts a very significant pressure on families and businesses and which is also inseparable from the choices taken by the European Union and implemented by national governments. The meaning, the guidelines for the liberalisation and privatization of the energy sector is one of the absolutely essential aspects of the European Union and implemented by national governments. In Portugal, it was realized by the PSD / CDS government in 2002 - 2003, which meant that it had to be families, consumers, to pay the oligopolitan profits of private companies, which from then on had the opportunity to set prices as they understand. Of course, the European Union guidelines implemented by national governments on the maintenance of these oligopolist markets, where price fixing is done solely on the basis of the interests and profit objectives of the pricing companies, as these companies naturally seek to ensure astronomical profits, while maintaining enormous differentials between production costs and energy and fuel selling prices, which is now added to the creation of the carbon market, from the discourse on environmental preservation and combating climate change, creates, in fact, the pretext for the movement and speculative transaction of products derived from the stock exchange. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would say that it is time for the European Union to assume the heavy responsibilities it has in this situation, created today in accordance with the guidelines it has taken, as well as the national governments, on the basis of the realisation they have given to these guidelines. It is a question of taking on these responsibilities by looking, of course, at what is needed to correct this situation, looking at the national interest, looking at reality and, particularly in Portugal, looking at what is the national reality and the needs of the country in order to be able to answer these questions. There are ideas of subsidization for families and businesses, through budgets, to support, let us say, the price increase. That is to say, in practice, the profits of the energy sector companies are left untouchable and families and businesses are subsidized without the fact that from the point of economic and social purpose this can have a significant impact. There is no prospect that it will be the European Union itself to assume these charges and costs for this subsidy. Now, even if that were to happen, it would be a wrong logic, because, truly, it means to leave to touch what is wrong and find only one palliative to overcome this difficulty. Therefore, the question that we really wanted to put, with regard to energy and fuel, is whether the Portuguese Government is available or not to confront the other countries of the European Union with the need to intervene from the point of view of correcting the fundamental problems in relation to energy and fuel, questioning profits, incomes, margins of companies and oligopolies operating in this sector, taking the necessary measures to ensure that prices reflect production costs and that there is no speculative action in a market that is completely deregulated and liberalized like this and to prevent speculation associated with the carbon market, which continues to be an addition to all these problems. Now, Prime Minister, we would also like to know whether or not the Portuguese Government sees this as a circumstance that requires action to be able to initiate a reversal of the liberalisation of the energy and fuel market, with the possibility of State intervention not only in the fixing and control of prices, but also in the recovery of public control over companies in an absolutely strategic sector such as that of energy and fuels. Not being able to develop much more questions, however, I wanted to ask some questions... Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr President. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u23	With the tolerance of Mr President, I wanted to ask only two very quick questions. I would like to know what position the Portuguese Government will take on the question of certain matters associated with economic governance, which, apparently questioning some grounds that try to limit the options of the national States, do not depart from the mechanisms of control and sanctioning of States. In conclusion, I ask whether or not Mr Prime Minister confirms that written commitments have been made at the European Union level in relation to matters relating to the exercise of national sovereignty powers, in particular in matters of labour law. Mr. President. — Mr President, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u24	This concern has recently emerged with regard to commitments in which the European Union in any way conditioned the options at national level. With regard to matters relating to labour legislation, we would like to know whether there is any compromise in this regard. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u25	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u26	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State : in a limited time, I will only mention some points on the agenda of this Council, starting with the part of the digital agenda, the digital transition, and a very important issue for Portugal, the 5G. We continue to be with Lithuania from the countries that are behind the introduction of technology, since we have not yet introduced it and we cannot, for example, benefit from applications for funding through the PRR and even the next European funding programme. We do not yet have the notion for companies of what could be the development of 5G technology, which could allow far more robust applications than it will allow. My question — even because the President of the Commission, in her recent speech on the state of the Union, reaffirmed the great investment that the Commission will make in 5G, is on the commercial issue. As we know, in terms of global economy, there is a dispute over the leadership of technology5G between the United States and China. I wonder how, from a European and national point of view, this dispute could influence Portugal's position and its development. Then, still in terms of trade policy, there is a fundamental issue to be raised here. Mr Prime Minister spoke of what are some obstacles to the realization of very important trade agreements. He spoke of Mercosul ( Southern Common Market ) and spoke of Australia, for example, and in both of them there is a problem with a Member State in particular, which is France, which — and this is not indifferent to the case — will have presidential elections in the first half of next year. So what I ask is whether the optimism and determination that Mr. Prime Minister here brings about the removal of obstacles to the implementation of the agreements with Mercosur and Australia, for example, are compatible with the obstacles that France will certainly move forward to the realization of these agreements and the impact of having presidential elections next year. As regards the price of energy, Portugal is the eighth country in the European Union where energy for domestic consumers is higher. Therefore, we are in the first half of prices and it is necessary to check whether this results essentially from the process of market price formation or if it results from the impact of the energy tax policy. Portugal is in the eight countries where the price is higher and is in the five countries where the tax burden is higher — in front of Portugal are Germany and Denmark, alongside Portugal are in Spain and Italy. Therefore, respecting very much what is the development of a climate transition policy — which we subscribe to and that the medium and long term will certainly have its fruits — we need to have a short-term and immediate policy. The government has the key to this policy, which is fiscal policy. If we are the third country in the European Union where taxes are most heavily charged in the formation of the energy price, I wonder what the Portuguese State is going to do, in the national context, so that, for its part, it removes those which are the causes of such a high energy price in Portugal, so that it can then be legitimate to have the debate at European level. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u27	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : Because I cannot let it go blank, I will start by talking about what Mr Prime Minister has already reiterated about the agreement with Mercosur. Although we understand those economic arguments of the agreement itself, we still do not understand how a government that calls itself a pioneer in the energy transition and in the fight against climate change — and, indeed, it says it wants to take that path — does not ask for the removal of obstacles aimed at protecting such imported deforestation we see in the Amazon, where, as we know, in addition to the environmental issues inherent in this deforestation, serious violations of human rights have also been carried out, with what has been a real chacinade of several indigenous leaders of the Amazon. This is something that we cannot understand, i.e. the position of the Portuguese Government in this area, which effectively calls for the removal of obstacles when there are several Member States which in Europe require greater supervision and safeguard against these crimes committed by the Brazilian State. Here again we are talking about energy prices, and we know that in the medium and long term we have to bet on renewable energy and energy autonomy in order to ensure that energy prices are more accessible and we are able to combat such energy poverty. In the short term, however, we also have a problem in hand, which in addition to national, is common to the whole of the European Union. The European Commission has already urged Member States to take concrete measures to ensure that the most vulnerable can continue to have access to energy and heating at this stage when winter is approaching. On the other hand, given that the main source of price rises is the pressure of natural gas demand, there are already movements to defend the inclusion of nuclear energy as green energy. Mr. Prime Minister, nuclear energy is not green, but it is one of the most destructive energy sources on our planet. I ask you: what is the position of Portugal? Are we going to accept that nuclear energy is classified as green energy? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u29	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : Energy prices and trade policy are topics that will be discussed at the next European Council. Starting with energy, I would like to point out that, as a strategic sector, energy cannot, in our view, continue in the hands of the private sector, until what is happening is that consumers are feeding the scandalous profits of large companies, while energy poverty is a reality for many families, due to lack of resources, but also to increasing energy costs. For us, it is absolutely immoral for these companies to continue to be protected by both the state and the European Union, even when they promote situations of great injustice and social insensitivity. In fact, the result of the policies of liberalisation and privatization of some sectors is well-known: destruction of strategic enterprises, withdrawal of the State's capacity to intervene in the defence of the public interest and also great harm to consumers. Therefore, it is not enough for the European Union leaders to analyse price increases and measures to deal with the consequences, it is necessary to go further and reduce the cost of energy, because an affordable, fair and sustainable energy transition is required in order to ensure that the energy sector is a factor of justice and well-being at the service of the people. So, Prime Minister, we ask: how far is the government willing to go to confront speculation and to end energy poverty? On trade policy, the Greens reaffirm the defence of fair, democratic international trade, which respects social rights, environmental protection and animal welfare. Finally, the defence of everything that is threatened with trade agreements, which aim, above all or almost exclusively, to protect private interests. We therefore question which agreements currently under negotiation are expected to include the multilateral investment tribunal? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to know whether or not there is any plan to abandon this kind of mechanism, as requested by hundreds of thousands of citizens of several Member States in a petition requiring the rejection of these dispute resolution instruments between States and multinationals, which large companies are increasingly using to attack rules that protect the environment and populations. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u31	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u32	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: I hope that the negotiations of the State budget are running at least better than expected. And I begin by responding to our colleague Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u33	I'm not yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u34	You know, Mr. Deputies, the difference is very simple: I have never been with Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. His president was here with his kisses and hugs with the leader of the Podemos, in Spain, so that televisions would catch up, investigated for very serious crimes against the state, illegal financing crimes and electoral crimes. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] He's here, for the whole country to see, who gives kisses to the bandits and who's trying to fight them! The speaker showed a photograph of members of BE and Podemos. [[PS and BE protests.]] Mr President, you may have been wrong in this Parliament for a long time, but you will never be wrong in arriving! Throw with a stone, take with three on top! It'll always be like this while I'm here on this bench. It'll always be like this here, but it can take you home if you want. [[PS protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I will then send the photograph to the honourable Member, so that he may have it to his head. If you want to put her there, that's a good example! [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Mr. Deputies, it is true, it is true! You guys go out with bandits, that's it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u35	You have nothing to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u36	It's true, it's true! Open... [[Protests from PS and BE Member Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Mr President, I ask you to let me speak, that is not possible! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u37	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the honourable Member finish his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, I am going to resume putting the questions to Mr Prime Minister. Mr Prime Minister, 61 % of what we pay for fuel in Portugal is taxed. This is more than the Spanish fuel tax rate and this has a name: Socialist Government and António Costa. It is up to you to pay today the fifth most expensive petrol in the European Union. And Mr. Prime Minister will say to Brussels: "We have to solve this problem! » Start by solving it within your country, start by having the courage to lower taxes on fuel instead of being taking money to those who have every day to travel between cities and their suburbs. I would also like to ask you if you see yourself in the unbelievable attack by the European Union on Poland following the decision of your Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u39	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u40	Mr President, you took me half the time, so I ask if I can finish at least. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u41	I've already sent this to everyone, okay? For everyone! The speaker again showed the photograph previously displayed. [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u42	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u43	Can I finish? I'll finish by asking just one question. Continuation of PS and BE protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u44	Chiu! Open... [[Protests from PS and PCP, hitting hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u45	Sir, time is running out...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u46	It's over, but I can't talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u47	You're a tyrant!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u48	I can't speak, Mr. President! It's impossible, it's impossible! They think they're in charge of this, but they're not in charge, they're not in charge! The trip to Cuba is at 6:00 p.m.; it is at the airport, at 6:00 p.m.! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u49	You really have to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u50	Don't let me talk! Open... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u51	Mr President, I ask you to conclude as quickly as possible, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u52	Mr Prime Minister, I shall conclude by questioning him whether he is reversing the decision of the Polish Constitutional Court. It did not do the same when in May 2020 the German Constitutional Court said that German law was superior to Community law. They now threaten Poland with funds sanctions, but no one had the courage to take a penalty to Germany. Is this the European Union you want or not? That is what I ask you, as a former European project leader in the last six months.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u53	They're tacks of tyranny!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u54	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u55	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: I will try to raise the energy of the debate, which has been very calm, and I want to actually return to energy prices, not to fossil fuels, but to the electricity produced by them or by other forms. The European Commission itself, in the communication of this European Council, refers to tax reduction as one of the obvious solutions to offset the estimated price rise, and Portugal has the third highest tax burden on electricity. According to ERSE and Eurostat, almost 50 % of our light account is taxed. Therefore, Prime Minister, perhaps the suggestion that you may be left is that during the European Council you will talk to your Liberal colleague from the Netherlands and ask how he did with the taxes to save about €400 per year each citizen from the Netherlands. And if you can't even talk to Liberals, you can go talk to your socialist comrades in Spain and ask them how they did it. I can also forward to you how they did: they have lowered VAT (tax on value added) from electricity. So the question I leave you with is this: when are we going to lower the electricity tax in Portugal? If we look at this bill that we all pay every month, we see that there is still the exploitation rate of the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, there is still the contribution to the audiovisual, the RTP (Radio and Television of Portugal), there is still the special tax of electricity consumption. And on all these taxes and taxes comes VAT. Another tax, tax! So, Prime Minister, when is the VAT down on electricity? Is it expensive? Yes, sir, but it will be less expensive than the hundreds of millions of euros that are being buried in the TAP and certainly the Portuguese would appreciate more during this coming winter. I leave you two additional short questions — be careful with the answers, not to irritate our colleagues in the extreme left and their management partners there: does it agree with the entry into operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and with the increase that will result from the supply of Putin’s Russia? Does it agree with the purchases of natural gas centralized by the European Union?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u56	Come on, today you didn't ask by the Rendeiro!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u57	To close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I shall finish by performing the miracle of being able to respond to almost everything that has been asked of me. First question, regarding migration: well, I do not have any special expectation that the change of Austrian chancellor alters Austria's position. I assume Austria will maintain the same position, which is quite different from ours. Secondly, there is total solidarity with refugees, in particular with refugees from Afghanistan. We have already welcomed 251 Afghan citizens in Portugal, paying special attention to journalists, jurists, women sportsmen, engineers, and we still have an express willingness to welcome up to 1,000 Afghan refugees, some of whom are currently in transit. She asked Mrs Clara Marques Mendes if migration divides the European Union. They divide and I fear they will continue to divide. We have managed, during our Presidency, after five years without having had any deliberations on migration, to make two fundamental decisions: the EU Blue Card, for legal migration, and secondly the establishment of the European Union Agency for Asylum. But this is one of the divisive themes, and it is one subject on which, if you ask me what I think, frankly, I will tell you that I believe that in the future we will inevitably only advance in a variable geometry regime, because there is an irreconcilable position between different States within the European Union. The second theme common to all benches is energy. First, at European level, Portugal will defend the possibility and advantages of the joint purchase of fuel. That proved it well in the vaccines, you can also prove it right here. But in addition to the joint purchase there is something absolutely essential to do, which is to complete the internal market, which is currently fragmented, and that means solving the problem of interconnections: between us and Spain, between the Iberian Peninsula and the European Union as a whole, within the European Union as a whole. And more: Portugal's connection to third countries, because, as I said and repeat, we can be gateways to clean energy or transition energy coming from third countries. On internal issues, and I do not want to run away from them, we have to have a consistent position with what we have defended. The greatest strategic challenge facing humanity is that of climate change and therefore we need to respond to this conjunctural crisis without losing the north that should guide us. What does that mean? We have now adopted exactly as we had adopted in 2016 : we are returning to ISP all the surprise we obtained in VAT. We started last Friday, we are going to do it again this week and we will continue to do it to return to the Portuguese the excess tax we are receiving in VAT. Secondly, we met yesterday with ANTRAM (National Association of Road Transporters) and are studying the adoption of a transitional measure — I insist, transitional — to respond to this critical situation which, looking at future markets, will not end before March and which, according to the European Union, will follow us during the winter. We must have a transitional measure to respond to this problem which is transient. But I would like to draw attention to one aspect: when we voted here the law which the President of the Republic promulgated today, by recontrolling the profit margins, the PSD abstained, the CDS voted against and the Arrival also voted against. So we should not forget that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u59	And how did the PS vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u60	The biggest profit margin is the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u61	I would like to repeat — it is often necessary to see if we have fixed — that my current government and my former government have never increased fuel taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u62	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u63	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u64	On the contrary, when you ask about electricity VAT, I would like to remind you that thanks to the Government, electricity VAT has already fallen in a socially just manner, for those with less income, and environmentally responsible, for those with less consumption. This was the first time that the European Union accepted a VAT rate differentiated by levels of consumption and this was due to the initiative of the Portuguese Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u65	The additional to ISP is what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u66	I agree with Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo on the concern that Europe must diversify its energy sources, it cannot be dependent on Russia, Turkey or Algeria. That is why we understand that the port of Sines is essential in order to be able to give a new security door to Europe. It is essential that we connect with Morocco, because if we can produce renewable energy from solar sources at a lower cost, Morocco will, for the most part, achieve and can, for our part, supply and contribute decisively to supply Europe. It is a new door of cooperation with Africa that we can and should develop and thus have greater energy security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, Mr Duarte Marques, it is not necessary to change the PRR, because the PRR provides precisely for funding for 5G to reach the inside while the market is to bring 5G to the areas of greater density. But we all agree that the auction model that ANACOM ( National Communications Authority) invented is, of course, the worst possible auction model, which never ends again and is causing a huge delay in the development of 5G in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u67	Ah, ready!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u68	But those who have built this doctrine, absolutely extraordinary, that it was necessary to limit the powers of governments to give powers to regulatory entities, must well reflect on this example of the 5G auction, to see if this is the good model of economic governance in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Mr André Ventura, there is a fundamental difference between this decision of the Constitutional Court of Poland and that of the German Constitutional Court. I do not agree with any, but you, who is a jurist — I think you are even a doctor of law — are in good condition to understand the difference. The German Constitutional Court considered that the German Constitution had precedence over European Union law — regulations, directives and other derivative acts. What the Constitutional Court of Poland has decided is that the Constitution of Poland has prevailed over the primary law of the European Union, that is to say, the Treaty establishing the European Union itself, and that is a stance of Poland and the European Union, which I hope will be quickly reverted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Oliveira, answering the questions you have asked me very quickly, I would like to say that there is no written commitment to labour legislation. The commitments written on reform are those of the Recovery and Resilience Programme. There is no reference to labour legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u69	You want to finish, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u70	I will now finish, Mr President. Secondly, following the adoption of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights, approved during the Portuguese Presidency, the amendment that exists is that the social indicators, in particular the employment and quality of the labour market, became part of the exercise of the European Semester. As for the reform of the economic governance of Europe, as you know, we are advocates of it. The intervention time I still have does not allow to develop, but it is certainly a subject that will be on the agenda for the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u71	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u72	The European Commission has, or is about to present, a proposal for a recommendation in the coming days. Portugal will be particularly active in this debate, which is absolutely crucial for a more just Europe, and can contribute to greater cohesion throughout the European Union. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u73	We will move on to the second item on our agenda, which deals with the general discussion of the Bill No 113 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 789, which lays down rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain on-line broadcasts by broadcasters and the retransmission of television and radio programmes. The Government has the floor for an intervention by the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u74	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u75	Mr. Marcos Perestrello, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u76	Mr President, while the Minister for Culture takes her place to speak, I just wanted to say that something happened in the computer system. I was on the phone and I stopped being, the connection was interrupted. I would therefore like to ensure that my presence today is confirmed, contrary to other occasions, when I have registered several times and the lack has been marked. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u77	Mr President, your fight against the system, in this computer case, is a continuous struggle. Thank you very much, Mr. You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we discussed, the Bill No 113 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) is intended to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 789 of 17 April 2019 establishing the copyright regime and related rights applicable to certain online, online broadcasters, broadcasters and radio and television broadcasters. This new regime is mainly developed in three dimensions. First of all, it will clarify the legal regime applicable to so-called "on-line ancillary services", which is complementary to the broadcasting services. These services include television and radio content that complements the traditional broadcasts of television and radio, allowing viewers to access, for a given period of time, before or after the broadcast, or upon request, more content than those that were the subject of the broadcast. As long as it is content with a subordination relationship with emissions and is available online, i.e. on the Internet, by radio or television stations, they follow the regime in force in the country of the main establishment, i.e. the principle of the country of origin, from where the broadcast comes from. This principle applies only to news or current programmes and own productions, provided that 100 % financed by the radio or television operator does not cover, for example, transmissions of sporting events and musical works, or others, which are included in these broadcasts, since the events themselves are not considered works or benefits protected by copyright and related rights. It also does not cover the production and co-productions resulting from the order to independent producers and others where there is funding from other entities other than the station itself. In all other emissions, the principle of territoriality continues to apply, in which the responsibility for obtaining authorization and payment of remuneration to copyright holders will take place in the country where the content is accessed. The second aspect of this proposal is the extension of the concept of'retransmission' to other forms of secondary distribution of television or radio programmes, in addition to being cabled. This concept of retransmission, which so far was only applicable to cable and microwave transmission, raised doubts when the compulsory collective management regime and other technological forms, such as fiber optic networks. This directive, the transposition of which is proposed, has established that the technology used is indifferent, provided it is a simultaneous, integral and unchanged transmission of the broadcast signal to the general public. This does not therefore apply to on-demand content services, which are not transmitted simultaneously. instead, they are made available for individual access, from a location and at the time chosen by the user. With this extension of the concept of ‘retransmission’, the mandatory collective management regime applies to all rights holders, with the exception of broadcasters. The third and final aspect that I wanted to highlight is the introduction of the concept of direct injection, which applies to the services of programs distributed directly by cable or otherwise, without having previously been the subject of dissemination to the public. This matter is very important, since in practice it corresponds to the overwhelming majority of the thematic channels and some generalists that are available on our platforms. They are all those who only reach the public through the various distribution operators, excluding only those that are available on TDT ( Digital Terrestrial Television ). The scheme which will apply to this programme service, as referred to in the Law on Television and Audiovisual Services to Request, is that of the so-called « extended collective management ». in this case, the representation of all rights holders of a certain category by the representative entity of this category is assumed for the purposes of extending the applicability of a licensing agreement. However, if any rights holder wishes to unlink and negotiate independently, it may do so by notifying the collective management entity of the category. in this part, the important thing is that both the distribution operator and the content broadcaster should pay rights because they both participate in an act of communication to the public, but their responsibility is not solidarity. According to this proposal, the transitional period for this scheme to enter into force will be four years. This proposal for a law, in transposing this directive, will strengthen the protection of copyright and related rights. As can be confirmed, this is an eminently technical diploma, although of very significant impact. Its technical dimension reduces the margin of choice for each Member State in the process of its transposition, but it can, of course, be improved. That is what we are discussing today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u79	I would like to congratulate the Minister, as well as the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Nelson Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group opened the debate for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : We are discussing two bills today, both transposing Community directives on copyright. However, the two proposals present quite different solutions and problems, whose reflection must always be made separately, for a serious debate. To begin with, this transposition should already have been made in June 2021, so our country once again was the target of an infringement process by the European Union. But, like Portugal, there were also 22 other countries. There's a reason for this. It is that these two proposals are so decisive and shocking that the States have had to examine them and carry out a longer process. Unfortunately, the Portuguese Government rejected a process that had already been addressed in the European Commission. In other words, he heard the great holders of copyright, the large technology platforms and some of the artists' representatives, but he forgot to hear an integral and fundamental part of civil society, as is the case with the various digital rights associations and also with the creators. However, we recognize that the directive also defines important components, including the issue of collective rights management, which we consider to be incomplete, and the management process must be more transparent than is suggested in this proposal. That should certainly not have been forgotten. Finally, we also note with some seriousness that a type of artist has been forgotten in this proposal. They are those artists that are not authors, nor interpreters, but are merely performing artists. They have been completely forgotten and left behind in the transposition of this directive, something that even does not happen with other transpositions, as we have seen throughout the European Union. This is our regret about this bill, and it is, in fact, worrying, once again, civil society has not been called upon to participate in the preparation of the presentation of the transposition of this directive. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u81	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u82	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: It should be recalled that the proposed law in question was, in the first stage, handed over by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic in the form of legislative authorization and was replaced only by the current text, now under discussion. having initially intended this matter to be treated as a legislative authorization, the Government had, in the view of the CDS-PP, to derail Parliament, trying only to give it a white letter to publish a decree on the subject under discussion. As it is certain that they have ended by ‘amending the hand’, the CDS cannot fail to draw attention to the almost authoritarianism of the Government by proceeding in this way. We also welcome the fact that the Government has failed to follow this proposal for a law, as referred to in the opinion drawn up by the rapporteur, of any document which bases it or has not referred to which prior consultations it has promoted or carried out. It should also be noted that this directive is 2019 and should have been transposed into the national legal system by 7 June. Portugal is therefore once again in breach and in July the European Commission opened an infringement procedure. It is true that it is not only in Portugal, that there are more than 22 countries in this situation, but it seems to us that the government explains why it took two years to bring this bill to Parliament. Parliament now has to deal with this dense and complex issue in a hurry, placing it in public consultation, very likely without time to promote all the hearings that would be necessary. This modus operandi of the Government in relation to bills implementing directives is already beginning to be disrespectful to Parliament, with other situations in which this has already happened. Now we are again faced with another case where the urgency in the transposition of the directive can give rise to a process that does not guarantee the necessary maturation on the subject in question, in view of its technical complexity and its implications. With regard to the content of this proposal, the Government believes that certain on-line broadcasts of broadcasters and the broadcasting of television and radio programmes are justified by sectoral regulation, since it is unequivocal the digital component that has already taken up the broadcasting and broadcasting activities of radio and television programmes. Everyone, as consumers, would like to say today that we have not been able to live without this possibility, — having made radio and television programmes available online. It is therefore understood that rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights should be laid down, as well as rules for programmes transmitted by direct injection, of course not forgetting the definition to apply to these online ancillary services and retransmission services by other means, in addition to cable and microwave systems. With this bill, more matters are dealt with and standards introduced into national legislation. In view of their density, Parliament should pay careful attention. These are, therefore, complex themes that deserve the greatest weight, because it is to all the undesirable titles that, with the proposed legislative amendments, there are still doubts, gray fields, incompatibilities or even conflicting solutions. The CDS is committed to following this legislative process in the field of expertise, hoping that all the contributions that come to us can help us make the text to be published as clear and as consensual as possible. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u84	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Respect for the rights of authors and performers and recognition of these rights at national, European and world level is of utmost importance for the Left Block Parliamentary Group. On the other hand, the transposition of guidelines into national law must always be carried out in a weighted manner, with time and respect for the Portuguese legal system. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen. Members, due to the inertia of the Government, the transposition of rules governing copyright and related rights, which are found in Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 789 risks becoming a transposition of practically copy and exit, as the deadline for its transposition ended on 7 June 2021, currently being opened by the European Commission, against Portugal, an infringement procedure for failure to transpose the Directive. In addition, Bill No 113 / XIV / 3. a, which intends to transpose this Directive, which lays down rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain on-line transmissions of broadcasters and the retransmission of television and radio programmes, shall not be accompanied by any document which, where appropriate, has substantiated it, having not been referred to by the Government by any consultation it has carried out. As a result of the explanatory statement of this bill, we must not fail to agree that it is submitted for public consultation. However, we cannot fail to see that it should have been done on a date prior to the deadline for transposition of the directive. By exceeding the deadline for transposition, we expect that the whole process will be done in an accelerated manner and without the care that is due to these matters, something with which we cannot compact. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal for a government law, as it is, will be a vehicle for the dissemination of artists'incomes in favour of multinational producers and distributors who do not even pay taxes in Portugal. Our vote will therefore be against. As a matter of discussion in the specialty, we will not fail to make our contribution so that transposition takes place in the best possible way, ensuring respect for the rights of authors and artists, interpreters and executives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u85	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u86	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Government submits a proposal for transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 789 on the exercise of copyright and related rights with regard to certain online transmissions and the retransmission of programmes. This after a handful of European Commission ears on 26 July. Let's hope, ladies and gentlemen. Members, contrary to what has happened in other recent transposition processes, this is no longer a case of blind transposition, in a hurry, and adding more contradictions and negative aspects to the original text. Innovation in the digital sector is an accelerated phenomenon and has constantly changed the forms of communication, sharing, consumption and even behavior. Digital technologies have the potential to improve access to information and culture, and can contribute to access to the widest variety of products and services, whether public and/or commercial. The CFP does not ignore the potential of digitisation, nor does it ignore that its realization within the framework of capitalism could bring profound negative consequences. Thus, the digital single market has actually been a tool to promote inequalities between Member States, degrading national production in our country. Moreover, since much of the business fabric has to deal with European competition and the brutal inequality of circumstances in the face of multinational hegemony, it is easy to see the damage that can be caused to the weakest, the smallest, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in all areas, including in culture and communication. It is in this context that we should look at this proposal as it fits into a package of legislative texts that aim to respond to the construction of a single digital market by the European Union. It cannot also be disconnected from other related legislation, with deeply negative aspects, namely the copyright directive in the Digital Single Market — which we will be discussing shortly. One aspect to be considered is the recent confirmation, and above all very well known in times of epidemic, that online platforms promote monopolies and market power strengthening in multinational companies. In view of all these elements, the CFP considers that the proposal is not the most positive for authors and creators of smaller countries such as Portugal, it does not represent an instrument that contributes to the dissemination, sharing, access to cultural content and does not effectively guarantee fair remuneration to authors. Problems, injustices and inadequacies remain to be solved in terms of strengthening and safeguarding culture, cultural diversity and multilingualism, geographical blockades in access to Portuguese programmes. And on the contrary, of what we have been able to see and decouple for what has been the option taken, this proposal even supports the interests of large private operators and the large film industry, making it even more difficult for those working in this area in our country. The transposition proposed by the Government thus does not solve the fundamental problems, so the CFP cannot — nor will — follow in its current forms. We will intervene, in the field of expertise, to defend precisely those who are weaker in this type of process—in this case authors, artists, creators, interpreters, executives, journalists, users. Then we'll be intervening in the field of expertise. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u87	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u88	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : Mrs Minister, I know that this time the document did not come from your office, but the Secretary is yours, he has to answer for it until the end. This is perhaps the biggest fraud we have been living in this year in Parliament. Since the NAP has prevented the joint discussion of the two points under discussion today, we will first make a formal assessment of this process and, in the second discussion, a substantial assessment of what is at stake here. In fact, this bullshit, Mrs. Minister, begins right away with the fact that we all know—and we know! — the Government had two years to transpose this directive. He knew and was warned. There had already been a problem with these in the first audiovisual directive—which also came back over time—and the PSD has even done something that is not common: in May, in view of the imminent completion of the deadline, it asked for the hearing of several entities in the sector, perhaps with this trying to impose greater speed on the government. But it did not happen, the government failed the deadline, we had a procedure against us, but not even the necessary transposition appeared. In September, the government promised to bring us this diploma, in which we would have a public consultation. But the diploma came to Parliament without a public consultation, it came to Parliament without even telling the government who consulted it. But the shit doesn't stick around. The debate continues because the Government has submitted a request for legislative authorization which, last week, has changed to a bill in which the text is changed, and then even more so: in a document, in an initiative of this complexity, the Government has given itself the luxury of asking for an emergency, which would allow for the three stages of assessment on the same day, as if this diploma, this initiative was likely to be discussed with responsibility in one day. The PSD — and well — opposed this fact, so here we are. And when we arrive here, Mrs Minister, what we have to say is this: in relation to the Government's proposals, obviously the PSD will not accept — it has not accepted at the Leaders' Conference — to do this in a hurry, because the government cannot do evil and the caramunha, which is to say "I am late and, because I am late, Parliament does not do its work either, because I am in a hurry". The government's hurry will now have to wait, because it's our turn, and we'll be responsible. Therefore, the PSD will not abandon the hearings to be made, to collect contributions, to participate in the discussion in order to improve this document, which, we are sure, and as already happened with the other, may happen. I would also like to say to the Minister the following — and we will now discuss this: this transposition surprises us for two reasons. The first reason is because it is a timid, very little-dry transposition, which follows very closely the directive. And he wishes to say: «If two years were for this, it could have been done longer». But there is something else that causes us some perplexity: how is it that the same government that has given us a request for legislative authorization for 15 days ago, asking Parliament for 180 days to legislate on this subject? Oh, my God! How is this possible, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u89	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Aragão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a fact that, indeed, the deadline has passed, but there is one thing that makes us feel good: that there are 22 countries where this has happened,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u91	In the audiovisual proposal he also said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u92	... at least some caution the debate must require. Some caution the debate must require.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u94	The Bill No 113 / XIV / 3. the transposition of the directive, which we are now discussing, even though it is confined to a concrete and closed question, in fact, in this case, in a lot of technicality, is actually part of a much wider and necessary discussion imposed by technological developments and its consequence in the market and in audiovisual services. The protection of copyright and related rights, historically demanding, gains boundaries of special complexity in the digital age and in the type of services available and marketed globally, especially because — and this is positive — technology has allowed the ever-growing production of content to be more easily made available in different latitudes and with almost permanent access. This is an eminently technical matter, and without prejudice to the legislative options adopted, the transposition discussed at this point is quite faithful to the text of the directive — as has already been said — ensuring the protection of copyright holders in the face of technological development and the emergence of new forms of access to content, and not, as has been said, by a matter of time or time of transposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u96	The protection provided here shall apply to certain on-line broadcasts of broadcasters and to broadcasts of television and radio programmes, thus amending Directive 93 / 83, the directive which first managed this process. This improves cross-border access to a greater number of television and radio programmes, facilitating the clearance of rights for the provision of online services, and lays down rules for the transmission of television and radio programmes through the direct injection process. By continuing to be relevant, the real discussion on copyright and related rights in the digital single market is, above all, made in the transposition of Directive 2019 / 790, which we will discuss in the following point. Technological evolution increasingly requires the protection of content and therefore the regulation of media, but also the regulation of content transition. If the support evolves, the regulation, necessarily, needs to adapt. And this is where the discussion that really matters to do begins. The regulatory effort, whether within the scope of copyright, is the production of content itself, is almost always accompanied by a fundamental wave announcing the apocalypse. Moreover, the very process of transposition of these directives almost always announces the end of the world in these areas, which is obviously not happening — the end of the Internet, the end of free production of content, the end of free sharing, the end of sharing platforms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, a year ago, sensitively, about the directive on audiovisual communication services, it was no different, and perhaps today we can announce, even with surprise to some, that the Portuguese cinema did not die,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u97	Ah! Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u98	... that the contents in Portuguese did not die and therefore, as vaccinated at the time, none of this effectively happened. in the same way, in the more comprehensive discussion of Law Proposals Nos 113 / XIV / 3. a and 114 / XIV / 3. there will be no end to the Internet or any platform of this or that type. There will undoubtedly be rules that protect copyright, protect creators, protect related services and all professionals who in any way contribute to this production. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Simply remember that the reality of physical media did not end up being subject to regulation, as everyone remembers. Let us therefore have a serene discussion of these points, because that is what really matters at the next stages. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u99	In order to speak of the closure of the debate, the Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative of this directive was based on the European Commission, in the second half of 2016, integrated into a legislative package with the Digital Single Market Strategy with a view to creating an internal market for digital services and content. The proposal for a law which we present here today implements the transposition of this directive into the national legal order in the fulfilment of those which are our obligations within the legal framework of the European Union. Its basic assumption is that the online distribution of copyright-protected content is by nature transnational, so that only the mechanisms adopted at European level can ensure, on the one hand, the proper functioning of the market in the distribution of works and other protected material and, on the other hand, the sustainability of the publishing sector in the face of the challenges of digital means. The central objective is thus to ensure that copyright and related holders within the European Union have a high level of protection in a harmonised perspective. Only in this way will discrepancies be avoided between the national realities of each Member State. Portugal has assumed, from the beginning of its participation in the discussion around this directive, the objective of obtaining the greatest number of consensus, through concrete, sustained and balanced contributions, with a view to building a strong mandate by the Council. Portugal considered, from the outset, and in line with the major concerns that motivated this legislative initiative, that, in order to achieve the initial objectives, it would be essential to build a mandate that would ensure a balance between the promotion of movement and access to works, the protection of rights holders and technological development. After years of many discussions at European level, the bill we are discussing today implements the transposition of this directive into the national legal order. It is important to highlight here today: in this discussion, we have always been on the side of those who have defended the need and justice of a regulatory initiative that would end with the status of neutrality, in terms of responsibility, of the platforms, which allow and facilitate large-scale access to large amounts of content protected by users and for profit. The exemption from liability arising from the e-commerce directive will remain in relation to platforms that have a purely technical, automatic and passive role. However, this is not the case with the platforms referred to in this proposal. We have always considered that it would be decisive, in view of the change in behaviour by citizens in access to protected content in which platforms have been playing a central role, to create a legal mechanism which is subject to the obtaining of authorizations by these platforms from rights holders. On the other hand, it is also important to clarify the non-responsibility of users who make available the contents still protected and share them without any profit. It is also worth pointing out that we always advocate that the regime to be created should not prevent technological development or the emergence of new businesses, especially start-ups, in this area. All the more so that the intention is exactly the other way around: to stimulate competition in the digital environment. Thus, it was possible to find a solution that would exclude micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with annual turnover up to EUR 5 million, with a monthly audience of up to 5 million users and for the first three years of platform activity, thus removing all those who want to develop innovative solutions from the scope. The evolution of this measure was safeguarded with a review of the solution after three years, assessing its impact. Finally, let me highlight a particularly relevant component of this proposal, which concerns press editors. Our position has always been clear by defending, from the outset, the creation of a new related right for its benefit. In this area too, we always understand that the use of news excerpts for commercial purposes should not be excluded from protection. News excerpts are part of the result of the intellectual creation work of journalists and articulists and an investment of press editors and, as such, cannot be excluded from protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u101	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u102	I shall conclude, Madam President. We always defend solutions in negotiations that represent greater balance in the protection of copyright on the Internet and avoid the misuse of protected works, only through the creation of a regime that allows for the licensing of such content and, ultimately, enables a fairer distribution of the economic benefits generated, while ensuring the safeguarding of technological development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u103	Having concluded the general discussion of the Bill No 113 / XIV / 3. a, we will move on to the general debate of the Bill No 114 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 790 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market. To introduce the debate, Mr. Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, I have already tabled the Bill No 114 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ), at the end of the previous paragraph on the Proposal for a Law No 113 / XIV/ 3. a. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u105	We shall then proceed to the debate. However, the Bureau does not have any inscriptions. [[Pause.]] I am grateful that the parliamentary groups are in good time so that there will not be such a waste of time. Mr Nélson Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : In response to what was said by Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD, we really wanted to discuss this matter on two points because we wanted to hold a serious debate and, as the two bills have much to say to them, it cannot, nor does it make sense to be treated all at the same time. I will begin with the positive aspects of the two bills, but more focused on Bill No. 114 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ). On the one hand, the proposals for legislation — in particular, Bill No 114 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) — define the issues of the Digital Single Market ( MUD ), make progress in protecting the remuneration of some artists and interpreters, in particular the audiovisual and musical sectors, and in reproduction via online platforms through streaming. This is certainly a positive aspect — and the final point, because, as regards positive aspects, the only one is basically this. The rest are problems behind problems and each one is more dangerous than the previous one. This proposal then confuses the basic concepts of usurpation and counterfeiting, which, in fact, should be examined at European level, the spectra are not the same as those used in the other Member States of the European Union. However, the most serious of this bill follows. This bill did not take into account the small digital creators, it strongly penalises them in what their creative action is and does not provide for safeguard mechanisms that are better than those that the platforms themselves have today. These proposals strengthen the powers of copyright holders—and, apart from the large copyright holders—and technological platforms. A creator who decides to re-edit a movie scene, a series, etc. , which is not included in the categories of criticism or parody, when having a copyright infringement, ceases to have its content monetized. However, the platforms themselves continue to generate profit with the same content, since it will not be withdrawn under these proposals. This happens because advertising on these platforms is not associated with content itself, but rather with viewer preferences, and remuneration to small content creators online is not only calculated on specific video visualizations, but on the number of subscribers in each channel. The direct association between advertising and specific content is pure and simply does not exist on these platforms. And let us be direct and transparent: these proposals, as they are, aim at limiting creative and monetizable freedom in a digital environment. And with this, this proposal makes a specific statement, by declaring the end of the principle of internet neutrality — which is different, Mr Bruno Aragão, from the end of the Internet, are two completely different concepts — which the NAP can never follow because it is the artistic expression and the creative evolution they suffer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u107	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u108	In conclusion, I would like to say that, in the case of approval of these bills, the NAP will present, as a matter of specialty, proposals for amendment, which will aim at protecting creative freedom and at defending the neutrality of the Internet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u109	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u110	Madam President, Minister for Culture, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members : Madam Minister, at the cost, I come here to solidarity with you because, in fact, it made more sense that the presentation of these bills was joint. And this, not because it was exactly the same subject, but because, when I said that the discussion should take place, it was not for all of it to be done this afternoon, because we found that 10 minutes clearly did not arrive. We could have had this discussion in a single intervention, with longer periods. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a world that runs next to us, a digital world, which has two worrying characteristics: firstly, its huge impact on our lives and, secondly, the fact that it, by its dynamic, is constantly changing. We must remember that, when we are implementing a directive, we are not examining exactly a government initiative, we are examining the transposition of a directive, in which the PSD family in Europe has also committed itself and, therefore, in which we are also reviewing ourselves. We can discuss the scope, depth, changes or restrictions that the Government introduces in this transposition, but we are not against it, on the contrary. What concerns us a little, I confess, is, making us so late, what has already happened in the digital ecosystem, which, perhaps, will bring us a little late. And the fact that there are 22 more countries that have also carried a handful of ears for the delay does not give me much joy, for the joy that this gives to the Socialist Party. So, Madam Minister, what is the PSD's position on these proposals? Firstly, the PSD will basically follow the proposals, because we want to see them discussed, modified and approved. Secondly, the PSD followed yesterday the proposal that was on the table in the Committee on Culture and Communication with a view to initiating public discussion and public hearing, which will last for 30 days. We want to hear, in a humble way, all those who, on this subject, want to say that, in fact, it is a great time to do what I call'mature democracy', which is to have all the players in Parliament, all those who in any way have an economic or other interest in the subject and also to receive contributions to improve this document. As you know, the next Minister will be assured of the initiatives that will come from the Commission itself, those of which ours will be born. The PSD, of the analysis you have done, is convinced that the document is shy. It is shy because it transposes, almost to themselves words, what is in the directive, doing even this transposition, much to the letter in some cases, incur concepts that, by indeterminate or, if you want, with little trace or tradition in our legal order, may provoke difficulties of future interpretation. So what will the PSD do? First, responsibly, he accepts the document because he wants to see it discussed; second, he will hear all people with democratic humility and sense of responsibility; third, he will be here to present the differences. And I hope, as usual, that the final document is clearly better than the initial document. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u111	For an intervention, Mrs Mara Coelho of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To analyze this bill that transposes the Digital Single Market directive, it is important to understand the way this directive went until its adoption in 2019. The strategy began by being drawn up with a communication from the European Commission in 2015, but it was on 14 November 2016 that the European Commission presented a proposal for a directive on copyright in the Digital Single Market. This was a proposal widely discussed within and outside the European Parliament, negotiated and finally adopted in concert version, on 26 March 2019, in the European Parliament, and on 15 April, in the Council. This involved, broadly and directly, the Portuguese Euro MPs of the various parties and subsequently the Government with the Member States. The time of discussion of the directive had its own moment and sought to find a balance between the rapid transformations of the internet and the protection of the creators, seeking to address these injustices. It was the time of clarification after the Adamastor that appeared as the end of the Internet. In reality, it was intended to improve the uniformity of the laws of the Member States regarding copyright and related rights and to ensure a high level of protection of rights holders as a guarantee of the proper functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, to generate a greater stimulus to creativity, innovation and the creation of new content, also in the digital market. in this measure, also pays attention to the end of the platform neutrality status, which provide large-scale access to large amounts of protected content, loaded by users and for profit purposes. We want to highlight the good and correct legislative option to integrate the new system of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, which, of course, will also have an impact on changes in special legislation, as has been highlighted by the doctrine, and which breaks the bad habit of becoming copyright in a blanket of clippings, as is regularly echoed by specialists. For more than 20 years it had not been legislated in this area. Law failure in the face of a new world with social networks, online media, new platforms with new opportunities and new challenges. Article 17. the directive, transposed to the Code, concerning the use of the work by the service provider of online content sharing aims to mitigate the problem of value gap between authors and digital platforms, since those are replaced in a balanced way by the contents that create for profit. The authors' permission to make the content available to the users of the platform has been preserved here. I also stress that it is not at stake any content that has to do with criticism, caricature or parody, and its use is freely and expressly permitted, as is the case with scientific articles repositories, open search content sharing platforms, direct message exchange mechanisms or storage service providers, such as cloud or, for example, exemptions from certain obligations for young and with little capital. We also highlight the option not to impose mandatory collective management for the use of online digital content, safeguarding contractual freedom. The choice to pursue a close proximity to the original text also seems to us to be appropriate and to which our legal order really safeguards our legal system, up to the pending procedure of Poland, in the Court of Justice of the European Union. If we want to stop on the issue of the deadline, as has already been said, we say that this would be impossible to comply with, until the European Commission only issued the guidelines for the transposition of Article 17. the 4th June 2021. It would be incoherent and, therefore, most States — about 22 — are currently working in transposition, as we are doing. In relation to the transposition of press editors and publications rights provided for in the Directive, Articles 15. it's 16. the, and transposed closely, highlights the introduction of a new related right of press editors, as the Minister recently mentioned. As far as press editors are concerned, the bill clarifys the exclusion of the clipping activity from the free use list, in line with European case law. With regard to the very short excerpts of press publications, the legislative option was to give priority in qualitative and non-quantitative terms, not providing a maximum number of words. In the field of expertise, the optimization of snippets can be clarified and improved according to the sensitivity of the parties, making the article more effective and more practical. Finally, it is up to Parliament, in the field of expertise, to improve the document — and it has already been said today! — which clearly leaves room for this work with the representatives of the sector, who have also brought forward proposals and have come to declare that this bill is a good basis for balanced regulation of copyright and related rights in the digital market. One thing is certain: it is notorious the need for the transposition of the directive and it is within our power to do everything possible to ensure that all rightholders are entitled to fair remuneration for the content that feeds the large platforms of sharing, as it is called by artists and creators and that it is of the most elementary justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u113	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u114	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We again strengthen our intervention in the discussion of the Bill No 113 / XIV/ 3. a, in the previous point. Ipsis verbatim, we wanted to reinforce once again that this proposal was not accompanied by any supporting document, there were no indications that prior consultations were, or were no longer, carried out. But, now, give me a break! — Parliament is urgently requested to have the responsibility to promote the necessary hearings. And there will be many, of course. The CDS hopes that common sense will prevail and that the hearings, consultations and opinions that arrive to us can be made with the necessary tranquility and serenity that the density of the matter and the technical part of the interested and targeted us deserve. If the Government has not, we believe that Parliament must at least show respect for all stakeholders and, where the CDS depends, we will not allow this urgency to be a condition for us in the process. In view of its complexity and implications in multiple markets, we understand that serious maturation is required. Regarding the issue of copyright and related rights in the digital single market, this is a matter of greater relevance and that needs to be treated with greater attention and weighting. It is essential, from the outset, to realize how the principle of proportionality is adapted in the Portuguese market. It is also crucial to safeguard the enforceability of what the laws are trying to impose. It is essential to ensure effectively the protection of copyright and, at this point, to note that these rights vary according to the type of author or work. A piece of news should not be treated, in copyright, in the same way as a music, only as an example. Not that there is a degree of importance between them, but from a legislative point of view, they should be treated in accordance with the specifics of each one. We also believe that we must weigh carefully on the basis of contractual freedom and that 'authority' and 'licence' are not necessarily the same, and that it is crucial to safeguard the principle of proportionality. Finally, and in view of the fact that digital developments are permanent and extremely fast in full, the CDS believes that it would be prudent and of the greatest interest to periodically review the law coming out of this Parliament. In short, the CDS will approve this bill in general, not resigning itself, however, of its responsibility to participate in the field of specialty, listening carefully to the hearings to be held, carefully examining the contributions that will surely be received and presenting the proposals that it believes may be able to improve this text. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u116	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion of this proposal for a government law is not, as we have already had the opportunity to say, disconnected from other matters, as from the previous point of view. First of all, on the question of the deadline, we want to say the following: if the Government has not taken the necessary steps to make the timely transposition, it cannot now be the Assembly of the Republic to make a process of horse mackerel.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u118	Mr Aragão recently referred to the issue of common sense, but we do not have a short memory and we remember that this good sense was lacking in particular by the PS and PSD. We have the very recent memory of how an absolutely complex process of transposition can be badly done and be filled with contradictions, as happened with the film and audiovisual directive, which has now known one more episode with the proposal of the State Budget and the possibility of the subscription fee being doubled, however, to be divided between the ICA (Instituto do Cinema e do Audiovisual ) and the RTP, giving tray the possibility of operators to avoid compliance with the law, which does not provide for this division, with court proceedings that can be dragged indefinitely. Let's see how this whole thing is going to evolve. The CFP argues that the copyright directive in the digital single market, as approved in the European Parliament, presents a limiting character of freedom of expression, the right to access, creation and cultural use and does not support the right of artists to fair remuneration with the widest possible dissemination of their works. In practice, at the point where the text is, we consider that the directive and its transposition themselves words will eventually harm artists, creators, interpreters or executioners and users, benefiting the great interests and powers of the digital market. Therefore, we reaffirm that reproducing problems can never be the solution. It should be recalled that the Members of the CFP in the European Parliament were the only Portuguese Members to take the initiative of presenting proposals for amending their authorship to the directive at the time of discussion in the plenary session, which unfortunately ended up rejected. For all this, it is important to ensure that this bill is discussed over time, listening to the most diverse entities and interested, understanding the risks and evaluating measures of a positive sense for the rights of the most vulnerable parties in this process, which, as I said, are the authors, artists, creators, interpreters, executives, journalists and users. This is where they'll find the PCP. And we say: take as long as it takes, so that you do not repeat fired processes such as the transposition of the audiovisual and cinema directive. Therefore, in relation to this matter, we defend and reaffirm that it is necessary to ensure that authors, creators, artists, interpreters, executives, journalists receive fair and due compensation for the use of their works and their work; that large companies responsible and owners of vehicles or media or media media and media owners are responsible for the realization of fair remuneration; that any measures which may have the slightest interpretation that are criminalizing Internet users, any perverse solutions that result in hyper-vigilant or digital censorship practices are rejected; and in this regard, we recall the discussion of Article 13. the, which then originated Article 17. the ; and that the democratization of culture, the freedom of cultural creation and use, multilingualism and cultural diversity, as well as the refusal, which for the CFP is fundamental, from the submission of culture to the strict logic and market view, is promoted and implemented. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP does not follow this initiative, in its current terms. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u119	Mr Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u120	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The transposition of the directive proposed by the Government is an opportunity to regulate this activity, since the rights of artists, performers and executives are often disregarded in view of the position of large operators on the market. It may also be an opportunity to clarify concepts, eliminate inconsistencies and harmonise legislation on this subject, which is not rarely altered without taking into account our legal order and the principles underlying it, despite the speed required by this whole process and taking into account the government's failure to comply with the deadline for their transposition. Since the 2019 directive, the Government had sufficient time to listen to the entities involved, artists and executives and to create such a working group that compiled all contributions and made the Directive adequate with Portuguese reality. He chose not to do so, which means that the initiatives under discussion are, then, the almost literal transpositions of the directive. In any case, the process that begins today must be done in order to ensure transparency issues—especially with regard to the clarity and frequency of information of the record companies to artists, performers and interpreters, so that they know why they are receiving certain value—and to ensure fair remuneration, and the rules may be similar to those of analogous environments, but that they integrate the specificities of this activity, ensuring the rights and giving more autonomy to artists and executives. Thus, as is happening in other countries, collective management must also be considered in these online environments, with mandatory character, which will certainly arise in the public consultation that will take place for 30 days, approved yesterday in the Committee on Culture and Communication, for which the hearing of entities and persons directly involved in this process is also planned. On the other hand, this is the opportunity to counter some derivatives similar to what happened, decades ago, with television, for being understanding, at the time, that the mere presence of the artist, being seen as a promotion, was already a sufficient gain, as it happened with the musical themes of the television series. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Left Block, it is essential to ensure that authors and artists, executives and interpreters are effectively paid for the work they provide in an appropriate, proportionate and equitable manner and that taxes are paid in Portugal. We understand that collective management must be mandatory, because it is the way to protect and regulate a market where authors and artists, performers and interpreters are often the most unprotected part. As we have already stated in the previous intervention, as is the case, the proposed law of the Government will be a vehicle for exploding the incomes of artists in favour of multinational producers and distributors who do not even pay taxes in Portugal. Therefore, the Left Block will not follow this proposal either. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the stage of the debate, so we will move on to the closing stage, giving the floor to the Minister of Culture, if you wish, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u122	Yes, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking this debate for the possibility that we may have been here discussing these directives and I would like to highlight some aspects which, during this discussion, have been mentioned by some of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, the Government has always sought something that seems very important to us, namely that these directives were transposed into a close consultation between all the Member States and the European bodies. It never seemed to us to make sense, throughout this process, that we did not wait for the publication of the guidelines for the transposition of this directive that we have now discussed, and it never made sense that these directives were not discussed at least in an articulated manner. We therefore hoped that on 4 June, as the honourable Member said, the directives would be published — and, I remember, the deadline for transposition was on 7 June. That is why there are 22 Member States which, having done the same thing as Portugal, have waited for these guidelines to be transposed within a regional context, i.e. within Europe. No Member State has any advantage in being isolated in this matter. We all have the advantage of being in agreement and in terms of a process that takes place at European level and not in each Member State alone. This is what we have been trying to do, and that is why we have tabled this bill today. On the other hand, we always advocate that the proposal being discussed should be as faithful as possible — and this was one of the issues put here — to the text of the directives and to the spirit of the legislator, precisely because that is what all the Member States are trying to do. This has been mentioned in a number of questions that some of the Members have. Members have put in place and it is true that we wanted to do so in a very clear and objective way, since this is the text which has been approved as a directive, this is the process which must be followed for the purposes of its transposition and that is why the text is actually following the directive itself so closely. The third note I would like to make is that both of the directives we are discussing here are very important, particularly the second one, since this is a directive that is very relevant for the protection and remuneration of authors. It is also very important for the creation of a related right for press editors and for the principle that reveals the neutrality of platforms and what that means from the point of view of the functioning of the market. Therefore, it has many fundamental aspects. It is clear that we agree with the ladies and gentlemen. MEPs point out that it is very important that there is a process of dialogue and public consultation so that it is also possible, in the context of this public consultation process, to improve, improve and do everything possible to ensure that the final directive transposed in Portugal is the one that best meets the needs of the culture sector in Portugal and the need to protect copyright. Of course, we, with Parliament, with the parliamentary groups, throughout this process that is now under way, are available to everything that Parliament believes can be the contribution of the Government. In conclusion, Mrs President and Mrs. Members, these directives have a very long time in the European process itself, as mentioned here, but this is an important matter which seeks to balance and combine commitments and interests that do not necessarily go in the same direction. Therefore, in matters where this balance is very important, but it is more difficult, it is where we have greater responsibility to find solutions that respond to the need, I insist, to protect copyright, to pay with justice and to place press editors with related rights, to ensure the responsibility of platforms, but at the same time also to allow innovation, development and creation to continue to follow the path they have to follow. That is why this answer is important. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. We will now move on to the next item on our agenda, which consists in the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 128 / XIV — It allows the use of drug-assisted reproductive techniques through semen insemination after the death of the donor, in cases of expressly consented parental projects, amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( Assisted Drug Processing ). [[Pause.]] The Bureau is not registering, so, I believe, we can move on to the next point...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u124	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u125	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u126	Madam President, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, who is going to follow this agenda item, is really coming, so I would like to sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u127	Of course, Mr. Deputies. However, for an intervention, I give the floor to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have again scheduled for this debate the subject of the possibility of using assisted medical procreation techniques (WFP) for post-mortem insemination, following the message which Mr. President of the Republic addressed to this House, expressing some doubts about the diploma we have adopted here at the end of the previous legislative session. We have concluded, in a broad way, following several hearings, a process triggered by a legislative initiative of citizens which, with a very broad consensus at parliamentary headquarters, allowed a democratic debate on the possibility of extending the use of the techniques of WFP to carry out, in a free and clear manner, common parental projects in circumstances where the law currently does not clearly include this possibility. Indeed, the law in force today already recognizes the possibility of post-mortem insemination in certain circumstances, particularly in cases where there is already an embryo to be implanted — something which Mr President of the Republic stresses in the message he addressed to the Assembly of the Republic — and what we want is, following the work carried out previously, to ensure that this is also possible in other stages of the insemination procedure. Mr President of the Republic raises two questions to which the draft amendment which the Socialist Party has entered, together with the CFP, BE, the ENP and the NAP, seeks to answer. It goes through two fundamental questions: firstly, that of the best articulation with the successive rules of the Civil Code, making it clear that the regime applicable to the circumstances in which it is necessary to wait for the outcome of the complete and alive birth, even improving, it is recognized, the terminology used in the initial version of the diploma, which was not rigorous in a legal-successive perspective, something we think to be resolved with the proposals delivered. The second is an additional caution, also required in the message of the President of the Republic, as regards the means of proof and the applicable regime, either in the transitional framework or specifically in the demonstration that this free and informed will existed. It is primarily to demonstrate that, when allowing, the person who gives consent, is also aware of the legal and successive consequences of this act. Therefore, it is something simple to carry out, it is enough that this declaration of consent contains this element and that it is recorded. We also included an element that seems relevant to many of these cases, which are unfortunately dramatic cases, in which people who have to make this decision can already be at the end of their lives, with complex processes in which the possibility of a written declaration does not always exist and therefore incorporates the possibility of the declaration with the same content can be made by videogram. It is thus ensured, in a more complete way, that, in some circumstances — for example, in the case of an oncological disease, where the person is in terminal phase and there is difficulty in expressing his consent — when it cannot be made in writing, the declaration is made by means of a videogram. It seems to us a balanced solution which corresponds to what Mr President of the Republic stresses as relevant to ensuring the approval of this law. We hope that the House will approve this matter again and, if possible, with a wider consensus, bearing in mind that the reaction of civil society to the approval that took place in the summer was in order to recognize that it rests, or extends, the sense of justice in the legislation on assisted drug procreation, in order to meet the needs of many couples who are faced with difficult decisions at a time when the end of life follows the desire to have a parental project, agreed by both, to generate a new life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u129	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are responding to the re-evaluation of Decree No 128 / XIV, which allows the use of drug-assisted reproductive techniques through semen insemination after the death of the donor in cases of expressly consented parental projects. The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group voted against this legislative initiative and believes it is important once again to make clear the reasons why it did so and will do it again. Although we recognize and deeply respect the suffering of women who, due to a tragic event — the death of the spouse — see the implementation of the previously desired and consented parental project closed, we believe that, first of all, another interest must be guarded: the best interest of the child who comes to be born. It is the CDS' understanding that not only the solution attached to this final text does not assure you that the very insemination post mortem alone denies the right that each child should have to be conceived and born of living father and mother. It is clear that this situation finds an approximation in the circumstances in which the father dies after conception and before the birth of the child. These are unhappinesss we regret, but from which we cannot escape. Already provoking the conception of a child whose father has already died, even if there is a written consent—and now, by videogram, or by declaration under an honour of the doctor accompanying the process—and a pre-defined parental project, it is an option, which, in our view, puts the woman's desire always before the best interest of the child who comes to be born. We base our position on scientific, technical and legal opinions, which are of everyone's knowledge, and which assess our view. Prof. Michel Renaud does not consider ethics insemination post mortem and the main reason is that the interests of the unborn child do not seem to be sufficiently respected by the fact that programming a unborn child without a living father. Prof. Walter Osswald also says that the use of LDCs techniques for pregnancy after the death of the surviving husband or companion of women does not find sufficient ethical basis for it to be welcomed into society and framed in legislation. The Order of Physicians itself says that it is always put in the background the best interest of the child to be born. It also goes in the same direction the understanding of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences. To conclude, in addition to ethical issues, there is still a set of other issues, legal issues, which, in the view of the CDS-PP, were not properly guarded in this final text. Of course, when in Article 23 ( 3 ). the, referring to paternity, maintains the wording of the current paragraph 2, which determines that « ceases the provisions in the previous paragraph if, at the date of insemination, the woman has married or lived for at least two years in de facto union with man who, in accordance with Article 14. the, shall consent to such an act if the provisions of Article 1839 ( 3 ) apply. the Civil Code. Do not keep on seeking. ” Except better understanding, the CDS seems paradoxical that, having had a parental project with the deceased father, for which he gave his written consent, the child who came to be born of this post-mortem insemination came to be considered the daughter of another man with whom the woman rebuilt her life. In accordance with the above, the CDS understood to vote against this legislative initiative without, however, failing to express deep respect for the suffering of all the women who live this tragedy of the death of their husband or companion and, consequently, see the constitution of the family that they had planned together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u131	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We were here a year ago, in general, discussing the draft laws that gave rise to this decree which we are considering today as a result of the veto of the President of the Republic. At the time, we said that the reflection that must be done should not focus solely on the rights of women to pursue these parenting projects—also, but not only. There should be an integrated view of women's rights, but above all, of children's rights, taking into account the best interests of children, the right to be born with father and mother, which is a right that has legal coverage. The thought that was important and on which serious analysis was required was precisely this: do these children have the right to be born with their father and mother or not? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do we really want to take that leap and move on to allow the birth of a child the daughter of a deceased father? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that all children have the right to have a father — the father who the law advocates as such — and that fatherhood is not confused or may be confused with the mere gift of genetic material. Therefore, it should not be said that the solution that this decree already presents stemmed from the law that women can use anonymous donor genetic material. No, not so, because the spirit of the law clearly wanted to distinguish this mere donor from a father's genetic material and did not deliberately treat the donor of genetic material as a father and did not. The donor, in accordance with the law, is only an instrumental biological cell to the conception, but a father, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is another thing: a father is someone who brings history, who gives it a name and who assigns property and inheritance rights. See, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the unpredictability these situations can generate in successive law. The father is, by definition, someone present in the life of a child since his birth and this constitutes an elementary right of the child from whom we cannot alienate ourselves. As a society we have a duty to safeguard the rights of children, as required and provided for in Article 3. the Convention on the Rights of the Children. Despite more respectability and solidarity that such parental projects deserve us—and deserve! — and to whom we are even sensitive, these cannot and should not overlap with the rights of the child who will, and must always be, the object of our greatest protection. We also said at the time, at the heart of discussion in the specialty, that we had serious reservations about the absence of legal formalities for the provision of consent, especially in the transitional regime which the decree provides, of retroactive application, only for the sole purpose of accommodating a specific case. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we said all this just a year ago and kept it. We said all this under the accusations of the Socialist Party, which called us “retrogrades” — see! — as if it were a matter of mere present. We said and were right, because all these issues were exactly the issues raised by the President of the Republic, who asked the House for greater thought and reflection on them. It turns out that precisely today, around noon, we have received a proposal for an amendment, consensualized with the PCP, with the ENP and with the NAP which, instead of seeking consensus on what is directly about the country and which is more immediate, present us with a consensus on the knee on the amendments to this decree which involve amendments to the Civil Code and which do not, however, respond to the questions that have been raised by the President of the Republic. They thus deal with this subject with absolute banality, without the weighting of values that the same closes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only important that the leap which is intended to take place when the birth of a child of a father who has already died is allowed, through cryopreserved material and after the death of the father. For all this, the PSD cannot follow these amendments, in fact, as, moreover, it did not even follow this decree. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u133	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After hearing these last two interventions, in this intervention of the NAP we must remember that the use of assisted reproductive techniques, through post-mortem insemination, after the death of the donor, arises from a civil movement which brings to this House a difficult personal and family situation, which is demanding, of course, from a legislative point of view. Fortunately, there were those in this House who sought to give due attention to this problem and sought to discuss it and, after several hearings, they found the best possible editorials to be able, in fact, to make progress on a new visit to Law No. 32/2006. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know — it is never more memorable — this law allowed, fortunately, a woman to use the genetic material of an anonymous donor, not knowing whether the donor was alive when the reproductive technique was being carried out. On the other hand, the same procedure was impossible if the donor was someone or a partner with whom he shared a common life plan and who had expressly, consciously and clearly consented to the conception of a child or a daughter. I can say that, fortunately, in this House, there were parties who sought to make the necessary correction of the law, including providing for the integration of a minimum time for a conscious decision-making and, also, duly supported in this process, ensuring the right of the born person to know his or her identity, his or her historicity and, also, his or her genetic heritage. After the statement by Mr President of the Republic, the truth is that we have returned to work and have sought to ensure and safeguard the essential concerns expressed in the veto, particularly those relating to questions relating to successive law. Therefore, we consider that, from the moment this consent is free and expressed, the successive effects, of course, will check-CL- always-and could not be otherwise. Since the child was considered son or daughter, these intrinsic rights could not be limited and therefore we sought to draw up a rule that brings this clarity in a joint proposal. In conclusion, we hope that, indeed, taking into account the path that has been made in this area, this drafting can resolve the issues and concerns raised. We also hope that we can finally find again in this House — we already realize that it will not be a consensus — the majority necessary to effectively resolve this issue that an initiative of citizens and citizens — and very well has brought us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u135	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now returning today to discuss the matter of post-mortem insemination by Mr President of the Republic. Perhaps you have to start by repeating what some have difficulty in accepting: the family can take many forms and this does not represent a decrease in the importance of respect for the best interests of the child. In addition, I remember that the post-mortem insemination is already allowed to women who use deceased anonymous donors, without even being able to know. With regard to the message from the President of the Republic, we were able to follow the doubts regarding the transitional standard because we recognize the importance of legal certainty which, perhaps, in the initial proposal, was not sufficiently cautious. In the questions raised in the matter of succession, we do not fully follow the views of the President of the Republic, because we believe that already with the current law and under normal circumstances it is not possible for a father to distinguish between the various children for the purposes of legitimate succession. at this point, it seems to us that the veto decree precisely means that, in this framework, the born child — let us remind him — of a clear and meaningful parental project cannot be discriminated against, also safeguarding the best interests of the child. With regard to the three-year period during which the inheritance appears individual, it seems to me that the solution found, that is to say, to make that same heritage, rather than as an individual, also alerts the concerns of the President of the Republic. So in summary, let us defend, with regard to this matter, as with all the others, the individual freedom which, in this case, is one of the most responsibilities which is precisely that of being a family. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u137	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very recent that the Assembly of the Republic has made the law of medical procreation assisted to allow post-mortem insemination. The conditions which required this amendment at that time remain entirely. So there is also the need to make this amendment to that law. In addition to the conditions which led to the first amendment, the arguments which supported and justified the veto on the part of Mr President of the Republic. We are going to the starting conditions that remain and that continue to demand, from the perspective of the Left Block, as it is obvious, that this change goes beyond. First of all, what is said today in the legislation on post mortem insemination is contradictory to the law itself, because the law, for example, already foresees and allows—and well! — the transfer of embryo post mortem. However, it determines the destruction of the semen so that there can be no such insemination after death, which is contradictory.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u139	Legally different things!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u140	Second, what exists today on this subject, through the changes that occurred in 2016 to the law of assisted drug reproduction, conflicts with practice, as it has already been remembered. at that time, this Parliament, essentially on the left, made amendments to allow any woman, regardless of her marital status, her sexual orientation and whether or not to have a diagnosis of infertility, to be able to make use of LDCs procedures. Today, what happens is that a woman can resort to these procedures, can use easy material, even without knowing whether the donor today is alive or dead, but then, at the same time, the law says that the material of her former companion, her ex-husband cannot be used. Therefore, there is indeed a conflict here with practice, with reality, that needs to be healed in the legislation. Thirdly, what exists today on this subject in legislation is an obstacle to the implementation of clearly established parental projects. We all know some specific cases, some have come to the public, with much courage. I believe that no one can say that it is normal to happen what came to the public: there is a couple in which one of the members died, but before, he had cryopreserved his genetic material. The couple agreed that this was the free, consented, explicit parental project they wanted to do. But then there is the law and the state that they say they cannot do it. It is not against anyone, it is not done by anyone's wake, it is against no one's right. All those involved in that relationship wanted to carry out this parental project, the problem is that the law does not allow it to be realized. Therefore, all these conditions remain and, by maintaining themselves, it is required, at least in the perspective of the Left Block, that the law is effectively altered. The justifications for the veto of Mr President of the Republic are then added. First, it was necessary to harmonise with the regime provided for in the Civil Code, with regard to successive law and what was envisaged in the amendments to the law of WFP. What is delivered today, in response to the veto, solves it by harmonizing the two wordings. Then Mr President of the Republic said that there was a need for greater legal certainty and security, as regards free and informed consent, for cases that existed before the law and could be covered by the law, through the transitional rule. Now, what is put in the transitional standard makes it clear that this was the will of the deceased person and that, by making the cryopreservation of his semen, he would wake up and agree, explicitly and freely, insemination post mortem. It therefore responds to the problem raised by the President of the Republic and to the need for reality to change the law. Now this amendment is approved to effectively do what needs to be done in the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u141	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we discuss again the question of the use of semen-assisted reproductive techniques after the death of the donor, in cases of parental projects expressly consented, following the veto of Mr. President of the Republic to the Assembly's decree on this matter. There were, in fact, two questions and concerns raised by Mr President. The PCP has therefore expressed its willingness to find solutions to overcome these same doubts. We recognize that we are dealing with matters of enormous sensitivity and complexity, which require weight and caution, but we are here to find solutions taking into account all the issues that need to be measured and weighed for this same realization. The proposal provides an answer to the concerns raised by Mr President of the Republic regarding the question of succession. We believe that the protection and protection of the best interests of the child is something that must be saved and we note that there is indeed that safeguard. Then, on the issues related to legal certainty and the consent that is expressed, in particular in the transitional standard, we understand that the proposal presented effectively gives this answer. We would also like to highlight the following: the main question we are discussing here is to enable the extension of assisted reproductive techniques, in this particular case, post-mortem insemination. This is a matter which we find clear, in fact, it was adopted by a large majority in the Assembly of the Republic and which was not raised by the President of the Republic. In fact, over these years—we can say so—the assisted drug procreation has been responsible for the happiness of many families, since it allows families with infertility diagnoses to effectively have the possibility to realize their dream of having children. The law maintains the principle that assisted reproductive techniques are a subsidiary rather than an alternative method of procreation. Its use is maintained through the diagnosis of infertility, but two exceptions are provided: that of the possibility of resorting to them for the treatment of serious disease or risk of transmission of genetic, infectious diseases, among others, and also the possibility of access to LDCs techniques by women, regardless of the diagnosis of infertility. I think the way the law is thought, built, gives this answer. We recall that it was through a legislative initiative of citizens, which was very expressive from the point of view of their subscription, that the Assembly of the Republic had dealt with this issue and that it was actually possible to arrive at a replacement text and a solution to give this answer. We believe that the introduction of these amendments allows and ensures the conditions for the entry into force of this law, giving effect to this will and the possibility of access to postmortem insemination under the conditions laid down in the proposal which is presented and, at the same time, protecting the best interests of the child, which we must of course always safeguard. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u143	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are all certainly reminded — until this fact has been mentioned here more than once today — the decree whose re-evaluation we now make originated in a legislative initiative of citizens then joined by other initiatives from various parliamentary groups. As we have also mentioned on other occasions, assisted drug procreation represents a matter to which the Greens have come to give great importance and which has led us, even in the last legislature, to present a bill to extend the conditions of admissibility and the universe of beneficiaries of assisted drug procreation techniques, and which, like projects from other political forces, was at the origin of Law No 25 / 2016, which has come to regulate access to substitution pregnancy. As regards the decree in review—which resulted, as we said, from this legislative initiative of citizens and then, during the legislative process, also from the bills of various parliamentary groups—the final text that came out of the Assembly of the Republic, in our view, was a balanced, fair and timely text and came, in our view, to improve the legislative architecture relating to assisted reproductive techniques. It follows that the President of the Republic has decided, without enactment, to return the diploma to this House for reassessment. However, of the careful reading that we make the message that the President of the Republic addressed to Parliament on this matter, there are no elements in question that may question the constitutionality of the concept itself, i.e. the use of medical procreation techniques assisted by semen insemination after the death of the donor, in cases of expressly consented parental projects. No, no, no. The doubts or reservations of the President of the Republic deal mainly with lateral matters, although important, but which can be overcome by this Assembly of the Republic. Both the reservations concerning successive law and the reservations on the transitional rule — which we see as being also in need of some clarification — may be perfectly out of reach by this House. We believe that the proposals for amendments to the diploma, however presented, are also under discussion today in the context of this review and that, in fact, the Greens also subscribe to the reservations of the President of the Republic and respond to the concerns expressed by him, and therefore await the vote and hope that there will be an extended consensus or, at least, sufficient consensus to promote the justice that this diploma intends to bring with it as regards the freedom to form a family. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u145	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are issues of an ethical nature that are not resolved with this reassessment and there is the fundamental question that has already been mentioned. This is neither the freedom to become a family nor the application of new techniques for this purpose. It is about doing after death. But we are going to the legal issues, which, yes, are more relevant. According to the initial project, the new companion could be registered as his father, since he was already married to the person who now resorts to this technique. Notice: the new partner is registered as a father, knowing that he is not the father. What's at stake here is real falsehood. There is here a data manipulation and the placing in question of biological truth. There are even those who warn not only of their unconstitutionality but also of the possibility that, if the father does, he commits a crime of falsehood. It is very important to have this notion, because it means that it is enough to be in de facto union two years ago and the new companion arrives there and says « I am the father», but, in fact, the father is another, the father is the already deceased. And this is a real falsehood that this law allows. Second, in relation to the proof of consent of the deceased, this law does not add to the reasons, form and elements that must be carried out for the process to define the proof that must be made, and leave it to the general criterion of the legislation. In such a delicate matter as this, Mr President of the Republic can never allow a diploma to be passed that does not identify the evidence that will allow to define what consent is. This is a central matter of life and integrity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u147	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u148	I shall conclude, Madam President, with a request for clarification concerning retroactivity. It's just that this law seems to be made according to a person. And, as we know, the law should not be retroactive, much less to reach special targets. And there it clearly touches on its level of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u149	To use the remaining time, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very syntheticly, I give some notes. First, the law currently in force already admits that the anonymous donor may have already died and its genetic material is used. The law in force already admits the possibility of WFP without a father, a couple of two women or a single woman. The law in force already admits the possibility of post mortem WFP, provided it is to implant embryo. None of this is new. It has to be consistent. There must be consistency between these various elements and this is not the case with the law in force. The President of the Republic knows this and says that « it does not object to the substance of the matter». And it is very clear that he asks for two corrections: firstly, that the matter of succession is linked to the Civil Code to ensure not the rights of the child, because they are guarded, but those of the other successors, because they are fully guaranteed with this recognition; and secondly, the question of form of the requirements of the declaration. And here, responding to Mr André Ventura, this is expressly identified here. What are the means of proof? Reduction in writing, videogram recording, or the possibility of a declaration under an honour of the clinician who accompanied it. They are quite solid evidence in the legal perspective. The solution to remain in force is that it is unfair for two reasons. By the way, an additional note: the transitional standard, which remains here, is even more demanding for the norm that is now in force for postmortem LDCs cases that already exist. Therefore, we will even be more demanding with those who will benefit from the transitional regime than with those who benefit from the current regime, in which, for the implantation of the embryo, none of these elements are needed and therefore enough is already available in the process. The problem is that, in fact, if we understand that there is a failure of the law here, we must correct it. Finally, to conclude, the aspect here is emphasized about this transitional standard of what to do when there is recognition of the new companion, that is a norm that is not altered. It is a rule that is in the law exactly in the same terms since 2006 and it has been a debate that Parliament has made. Therefore, the same paragraph 2 remains in force because it is the norm that already prevails precisely in cases where the law admits that the assisted drug procreation can be done postmortem. As has already been said in the debate, I think that it was Mrs Paula Santos who said it, that it is to ensure that the law is not an obstacle to anyone's happiness when science already allows it. I believe that if we can guard it every case where there was a restriction — in our perspective, excessive — of the fundamental rights of those who wanted to use the law, if the law can help to achieve the happiness of some people, in this context, I think that our role as Members is only to lift that restriction and ensure that happiness happens to themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u151	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having concluded that this is point four of our agenda, we turn to point five of the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 167 / XIV — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash by amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, Law No 109 / 2009 of 15 September approving the Cybercrime Law, and other legislative acts. To introduce the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr. Mário Belo Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 167 / XIV was based on Bill No 98 / XIV / 2. the, submitted by the Government, with the aim of transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud and counterfeiting of miscellaneous means of payment of cash. As is shown in the explanatory statement of the bill, the need to transpose this directive has led the Government to propose amendments to the Cybercrime Law as well. The aim of this law was to focus on criminal protection relating to the counterfeiting and counterfeiting of such means of payment as credit and debit cards. at the same time, taking advantage of the need to change the Cybercrime Law, the government proposed the reformulation of an important aspect of this law, although autonomous in relation to the directive. Of course, I am referring to the seizure of electronic mail and messages of a similar nature which are essentially covered by Article 17. The law of Cybercrime. In fact, such a regime has been giving rise to divergent and contradictory judicial decisions, to the detriment of the efficiency of the process and legal certainty. in a matter of enormous practical relevance which should be regulated clearly, it would not be acceptable for the competent bodies to resign to intervene in order to find a solution to this problem. in this context, the government has essentially adopted the express allocation of competence to the Public Prosecutor to order the seizure of electronic messages and select those that appear to be of great interest to the discovery of the truth, presenting them, then, to the investigating judge who would weigh his joint or not on the process. In essence, the Government considered that electronic messages should be applied to a search and seizure regime similar to what is currently applicable to data and computer documents revealing personal and intimate data that might undermine the privacy of the respective owner or third party. With balance and harmonizing the interests in the presence, the Government aimed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the criminal process, adapting it to the requirements of the twenty-first century and responding to the difficulties of research associated with the new forms of communication. At the same time, he did so without jeopardizing the fundamental guarantees of citizens. In fact, judicial intervention was always ensured, in any case, even if later, in order to prevent unfounded or disproportionate actions by prosecutors and police. At the same time, it should be stressed that the proposed solution was also required by a fundamental plan of the Government and the country: to wage an effective and determined fight against corruption. We all know that the levels of sophistication and efficiency of economic-financial crime and, in general, organised crime are largely enhanced by electronic communication, as is evidence that the timely seizure of electronic mail and registration of similar communications are crucial elements of the success of investigations and judicial processes associated with this type of crime. The Government's proposal on Article 17. it was approved in this House, which is the first headquarters of our democracy, without any votes against and supported by favorable opinions of the superior councils of the magistrates. The Constitutional Court ruled, however, in the sense of the unconstitutionality of such a proposal, that it implied, in accordance with the Constitution, the veto of the diploma by the President of the Republic, which returned it to the Assembly of the Republic for remuneration. In honor of the principle of the separation of powers, a basic part of the rule of law, if the decision of the Constitutional Court is fully upheld, which is legitimate and sovereign. In view of the urgent need for rapid transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713, the deadline of which is already exhausted, the Government does not consider it appropriate to present an alternative proposal for amendment to Article 17 at the moment. the law of Cybercrime. This position does not, of course, preclude the introduction of this issue again in future, within the limits laid down by constitutional case law. However, at this time, it is essential to fulfil the obligations of the Portuguese State before the European Union, which is reinforced by a whole criminal dynamics associated with means and payment systems, to the blight of the pandemic crisis that we are still living in. In short, considering that all other content of the diploma has not been questioned or, in any way, put into crisis, the Government believes that it should be maintained, eliminating only the proposed amendment to Article 17. The law of Cybercrime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u153	For an intervention, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today we are reviewing the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 167 / XIV, which transposes to our legal order Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment. As is public knowledge, this decree was vetoed by Mr. President of the Republic, following a ruling by the Constitutional Court which, in the case of preventive supervision, declared the unconstitutionality of the wording proposed for Article 17. The law of Cybercrime. As is the case in a rule of law and irrespective of the legal or constitutional assessment that each person may make of the so-called wording of Article 17. the decision of the Constitutional Court must deserve our respect. And therefore, and taking into account that the declaration of unconstitutionality only falls on the wording given in Article 17. that of the Cybercrime Act is therefore harmless in relation to the remaining articulation of the diploma, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes that this article be simply removed from the decree in order to fully respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. As is also known by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose an amendment to Article 30. the law of Cybercrime in the wording given to it by Article 5. the, just to correct a step that was, however, identified. In fact, the current wording of Article 30. the Cybercrime Law refers to Chapter VI of the 1998 Law on Data Protection, which was repealed in 2019. However, the content of this Chapter VI of the 1998 Law was transposed into a series of articles not only of Chapter VII of the 2019 Law, but also of Chapter VIII, which concerns sanctions. So in order to avoid a gap in this remission, we also propose this simple amendment. In the rest, the diploma remains unchanged in order to allow for a rapid transposition of the 2019 directive. That is all I have to say here, and the proposals of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, of amendment to the decree, have already been submitted to the Bureau and are known to the Members. Members and Members of Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u155	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: The plenary today, for review, is the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 167 / XIV, which transposes a European directive on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment and amends the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Cybercrime Law. I recall that the decree was returned by His Excellency the President of the Republic, for having been judged unconstitutional the rule amending Article 17. the Law No 109 / 2009, of 15 September ( Cybercrime Law ), for violation of the rules contained in Articles 26. o, paragraph 1, 34. o, paragraph 1, 35. o, paragraphs 1 and 4, 32. o, paragraph 4, and 18. , paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. With the constant wording of Bill No 98 / XIV / 2. the, the government aimed to better frame the seizure of messages of electronic mail or similar nature, in the context of the general regime of computer data seizures, taking advantage of to resolve some judicial differences that the current wording has raised. This initiative, Madam President, as well as the other initiatives of the Government and other parties, was discussed in plenary on 25 June, together with the five initiatives that the CDS-PP then presented. None of us opposed our vote and none of us could say that it was inappropriate for the ultimate purpose of combating corruption. In fact, new, better and constantly updated solutions are needed to combat corruption, and the CDS-PP will always be here to contribute. As regards the proposal for an amendment submitted by the Socialist Party, within the framework of this review, by dropping the amendment proposed for Article 17. that of the Cybercrime Law, automatically removes the obstacle to the approval of the remaining changes, contained in the decree under consideration, which seems to us to be positively pointing out. Now, it is important to continue work in the field of expertise, to appreciate, to debate and to vote on the remaining initiatives pending there. This is the contribution the CDS-PP can make, what it wants to make and which it reaffirms here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u157	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, in this re-evaluation of the amendments to the Cybercrime Law, there is a principle that we must bear in mind: indeed, in the day-to-day period, we have heard that nothing is done to combat, more effectively and rapidly, phenomena such as corruption and new types of crime, including cybercrime, but the diploma that has been approved here at this time, without any vote against, is undoubtedly a step in this direction that this House of the Republic has taken and intends to take. This review therefore focuses on the new Article 17. the law of Cybercrime, which has been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, precisely because it considers that it contains a restriction on rights, freedoms and guarantees, in particular the inviolability of correspondence, and a violation of constitutional rights of defence in criminal proceedings. Despite our respect for both the Constitution and the Constitutional Court, our interpretation of which we respect and of course does not seem to us to believe that this decision of the Constitutional Court was proportionate to what was intended to be achieved, especially because it gave no margin to rescue Article 17. the, which has now been even dropped by the amendment proposal of the Socialist Party, thus eliminating all constitutional issues around this amendment proposal. Despite the noise that was later made, although we all voted in favour of this initiative, and leaving aside the media crowd, because it should not be what moves us, and even less the need to justify the vote that was then given, it is important to clarify and reflect on some matters. First of all, at the time a very comprehensive set of entities was heard and, in fact, only one spoke against this solution, which in some way showed us that it was not so obvious the supposed unconstitutionality that came to be decreed. Secondly, and contrary to the reading that has been made, the rule in question did not exempt the prior consultation of the judge, and it is also important that this be taken into account, as was not at issue a seizure of correspondence similar to those made in the Code of Criminal Procedure. And, not being in question a seizure, what was in question here was, yes, a seizure in the course of a computer research or other legitimate access, that is, if there was, in fact, a valid and previously authorized computer access by the judge, within which the Public Prosecutor came to discover other facts or elements that indicated a crime. Therefore, starting from a assumption of procedural speed, on the one hand, and the effectiveness and economy of procedural acts, on the other hand, and considering that, after these elements, there would still be another opinion and assessment by the judge, in the opinion of the political forces, at the same time, the fundamental rights were guaranteed by a subsequent safety valve based on a model in which the collection was not made by an entity or by any person, but, yes, by the Public Prosecutor, who is also himself — we cannot forget — a guarantor of the legality and whose action we believe to be within the democratity and competence of criminal investigation, and also absent, in the intervention itself after the judge.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u159	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u160	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. This provision was in fact aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of criminal action, which is also a challenge for the Assembly of the Republic today, which cannot be stolen, but unfortunately Article 17. it has been on its way and, indeed, another solution will have to be reached which aims to speed up the fight against these phenomena of corruption and cybercriminality, which unfortunately continue to mark our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u161	For an intervention, Mrs Mónica Quintela, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u162	Madam President, I welcome you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Mr President of the Republic has vetoed the amendments made to Article 17. the Law No 109 / 2009, the so-called Cybercrime Law. The amendments introduced in that legal diploma expand the powers and responsibilities of the criminal police bodies and the Public Prosecutor's Office by granting them a freedom of action which objectively deals with constitutionally protected rights, freedoms and guarantees. In the legislation in force, it is the criminal investigation judge, and well, who has the exclusive competence to order or authorize the seizure of electronic mail or of a similar nature, exclusivity that comes precisely from the need to caution the formalities and procedures affecting restrictions on fundamental rights, in cases expressly provided for in the law, such as criminal investigation. Because these are rights, freedoms and guarantees, these compressions must comply with the constitutional requirements of necessity and proportionality and the prevalence of the prevailing interest. In the new wording of Article 17. that of the Cybercrime Law would become, this competence, today exclusive of the judge, would become divided with the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the criminal police bodies, without prior judicial authorization. However, in a society in which computer systems have an increasingly dominant role in the lives of citizens, constituting genuine personal and professional information banks, it is clear that the visualization of their content constitutes an invasion of private life, imposing the greatest cautions on their access. The indiscriminate analysis of e-mail messages makes it possible to identify clearly the profile of your user, and even of intervening third parties, constituting an intolerable intrusion and firewall of private life. Given the conflict of interests between criminal investigation, on the one hand, and the protection of fundamental rights, on the other hand, in particular the enhanced constitutional protection attributed to correspondence, telecommunications or other private media, arising from Article 34. the Constitution, paragraphs 1 and 4, the PSD did not favourably vote on this rule, requiring its separate vote in the field of specialized work, raising serious doubts about its constitutional conformity. And the PSD only failed to demand the successive supervision of constitutionality, as its intention was, due to the prudent and predictable anticipation of the request for preventive supervision by our President of the Republic, who has been very successful. And in unanimous judgment, despite the voting statement included there, the Constitutional Court ruled that the rules amending Article 17 were unconstitutional. the law of Cybercrime, for violation of fundamental rights to the inviolability of correspondence and communications and to the protection of personal data, in the context of the use of computers, as corollaries of the right to privacy and family life, all in conjunction with the principle of proportionality and the guarantees of defense in criminal proceedings. By bearing in mind this understanding, the PSD has already presented a proposal to amend the diploma, to thoroughly purge this deemed unconstitutional standard. It seems that we have the necessary consensus here to now, within the House of Democracy, to purge and eliminate an excrescence that is not necessary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u163	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It is basically all said. The Constitutional Court found the constitutional text to be contrary to a standard that admits the seizure of electronic mail in the course of a properly legitimized police investigation by a judge. The interpretation of the Constitutional Court is far from being a linear and consensual interpretation. The evidence is, as has already been mentioned here, that the opinions of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy and the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, which, of course, would have raised the issue, was to expect this to happen, did not do so and, therefore, shows that this question of unconstitutionality is at least controversial. In fact, what is at stake is not a perception of correspondence identical to that which is prohibited taxically—and well! — either from a constitutional point of view, or by the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is a different kind of apprehension. It is a seizure, I say again, that occurs in the course of a properly legitimized operation by the bodies themselves for this purpose. Moreover, according to what was envisaged in the diploma now under review, there would be a judge who would determine whether the additional elements seized would be part of the proceedings, whether or not they would be attached to the procedure. So it's not, I'm saying, linear again that we're facing an unconstitutional norm. But there is one thing that is certain: the Constitutional Court has declared the unconstitutionality of this standard and therefore, from our point of view, there is no alternative if we do not respect this decision of the Constitutional Court and the question is, in practice, resolved with the proposals that the PS and the PSD submit so that the controversial standard that was present in the initial version of the diploma is removed. It didn't have to be like that, but it will be. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u165	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The question which is currently under discussion, with regard to the follow-up to the legislative solution, to the declaration of unconstitutionality and to the veto for this reason, I believe that it is simple and obvious and does not deserve any space of disagreement. Therefore, of course, the elimination of the article must be the consequence of withdrawing this declaration of unconstitutionality, but I think it is still worth considering what to do for the future, because I think that will be essentially the usefulness of this debate, in view of this declaration of unconstitutionality. In our view, the approach to this issue cannot be put in the manner in which the NAP here has done so, by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. The responsibility of the Constitutional Court is not to give or stop giving us room to save an unconstitutional article. The obligation of the Constitutional Court shall be to consider whether or not that standard is admissible from the point of view of the constitutional framework. I therefore believe that your declaration of unconstitutionality should not introduce weightings regarding whether or not there is a change. And now I am correcting you, Mrs Deputy: there was no vote in favour of the CFP, you are wrong. If you were counting on this, you have to go to the top, because either in the specialty or in the global final vote, the PCP abstained, did not vote in favour, unlike the NAP. But this does not add much to the debate. I don't know if it's a spate that Mrs. Deputy wants to do with the PCP,... [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]] ... but from this point of view, it does not take any maturity either. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Mário Morgado has made a reference to an issue which I think is very relevant and which has to do with the identification of conflicting case-law decisions which, over time, have emerged and which, of course, cause a clarification concern about the regime applicable in this area which we are discussing. I believe that, from this point of view and even considering the concrete content of the Constitutional Court judgment, we should seek from those considerations that the Constitutional Court has made to identify what might be lines of solution. And even with regard to these questions of conflicting case-law decisions, the Constitutional Court itself alerts to the circumstances of a significant number of times these decisions decide on boundaries other than the same problem and on how the same problem is placed. Therefore, perhaps the existence of conflicting jurisprudence decisions is not exactly the point where we should start to solve this problem. The Constitutional Court's judgment also in some way makes a basis for what are elements to be taken into account in the response to the problems raised, with regard to issues related to possible conflicts between the Cybercrime Law and the regime of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Also from this point of view there is no difficulty in accepting that there may be an autonomous regime, which, of course, may indeed be an autonomous regime, but what cannot be built in violation of constitutional rules. The questions relating to the requirement of the previous jurisdictional space, the need for the judge to have to be aware, first of all, of the content of the messages, all these questions are the subject of reflection and weighting by the Constitutional Court itself in the set of elements which have been weighted for the decision that has been taken. It seems to us that we cannot in any way lighten what is the content that leads to this decision in the Constitutional Court, because perhaps this is a superficial element, but still gives us an element of weighting. The Constitutional Court did not declare unconstitutionality due to violation of a secondary norm or a partial norm of the Constitution. There are a set of rules whose violation the Constitutional Court identifies that it must raise our concern. These are standards relating to the use of computers, the inability of correspondence—of course Article 18. the Constitution, which had to be by weight of the rights, of the constitutionally relevant interests that are under consideration. Therefore, in conclusion, we would say that the Constitutional Court's judgment, in our view, should not only be regarded as an element of this legislative process, which requires the elimination of Article 17. the, but we must seek in the judgment itself the paths which, from it, can be withdrawn for the solution of this problem, so that, once and for all, regardless of the questions of the different reasons that may be appreciated, of the simple contours of the situations that, in fact, motivate conflicting jurisprudence decisions, irrespective of that, a suitable solution can be found for conditions to combat crime with this configuration, which, of course,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u167	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u168	I conclude, Madam President. ... using the use of technologies, in fact, brings added requirements to the judicial authorities, but which, of course, cannot fail to respect what is the framework and the limits laid down by the Constitution itself. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-20.u169	We're at the end of our agenda. The next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow for 3 p.m. on the agenda. Thus, in the first point we will generally have the debate of Bill No. 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 58 / 2019 of 8 August, which ensures the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, ensuring the access of medical students to information systems and platforms on which health data from health services users are recorded and 966 / XIV/3. a ( BE) — It allows access to a set of personal data by medical students and scientific researchers, for academic purposes, of archives of public interest, for scientific or historical research or for statistical purposes ( first amendment to Law No 58 / 2019, of 2021 ). In point two we will have the assessment of the Resolution Project No 1315 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening of the social network for early childhood, and of Law Projects Nos 371 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Proposals for measures to extend the free of charge of day care centres and similar solutions, 963 / XIV/ 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Programme to encourage the creation and flexibility of daycare hours, 965 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Creates the public daycare network program, in general, and of the Resolution Project No 186 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Enlargement of the public day care network and support for families where there are no public sector responses. In point three, the Drafts of Law Nos 871 / XIV / 2 will be discussed in general. a ( BE ) — Set up unequivocally the principle of the most favourable assessment in the evaluations made by medical board ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October ) and 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Medical attestation of Multi-purpose Incapacity — clarifying the processes of review or re-evaluation of the degree of incapacity through an interpretative standard to Article 4. the Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October. In point four we will generally appreciate the Lein.o 9 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the permanent financing scheme of the Tax Reduction Support Programme in public transport and 964 / XIV/3. a ( PAN) — Establishs the strengthening and evaluation of the implementation and implementation of the Programme of Support for the Reduction of the Public Transport Tariff ( PART) and the Programme of Support for the Density and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer ( PROTRANSP). In the fifth and last point we will have the debate of the Draft of Deliberation No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Evocative Session of November 25, of Resolution Projects Nos 70 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government propose to Mr. President of the Republic the allocation of the Freedom Order to the persons who have contributed decisively to the triumph of democracy and freedom on 25 November 1975 and 45 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — For the solemn celebration of 25 November. It remains for me to wish everyone a good evening and a good night. See you tomorrow. Thank you all very much. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 18 minutes.]]
