ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Lein's Proposals 86 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with other committees, and 87 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Parliamentary Opinions Nos 45 / XIV / 2 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PSD ) and 46 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). Law No. 797 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) 798 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 799 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 801 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 802 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 803 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 8. the Commission. I also refer to Resolution Projects Nos 1199 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1200 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 1201 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 1202 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 1203 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1204 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1205 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 1206 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 1207 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1208 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1209 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 1210 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u3	We now move on to the first item on the agenda, with the general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 82 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal system of individual and household education. To present this bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, João Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government shall bring the request for authorization to the Assembly of the Republic so that we can legislate, establishing individual and domestic education schemes. I do a little the framework of what brings us here, in a history that actually starts in times of bad memory, because the last time this regime was legislated was in 1949, in the decree, to date, 37 545. There, the individual and household education system was established as a particular form of education. This decree was repealed in 1980 by the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education, which stipulates only that it does not cover individual and domestic education and, since then, we have been in an empty state, despite the existence of individual and domestic education. But it is a void in which this regime is appearing in orders, in registrations, in the regulation of evidence and examinations. It's everywhere, except for the law. And what we wanted to do, with Decree-Law No. 55 / 2018, which establishes the curriculum for basic and secondary education, was, in a way, bring this regime to legality, also defining some principles, to which I will refer shortly, which are poured into the Ordinance No. 69 / 2019, which follows this decree-law. I will return to these principles, but now I would also like to explain the rest of the story. This portal was contested, for various reasons and also contested its constitutionality. And why? Because in the decree-law of the curriculum the system of individual and domestic education appears as a modality, but the modalities of the Basic Law of the Educational System contain only special education, training, recurrent education, distance teaching and teaching of Portuguese abroad. Therefore, in fact, individual and domestic education did not appear here and, not appearing, then it is important to bring this application for authorization to legislate to the Assembly of the Republic, to correct this error. In the regulation that is intended to be done, I would like to explain five fundamental principles. The first, which is the basic principle in all this, is to guarantee the right to education for children, when their families opt for this regime, i.e. that individual and domestic education is a full-fledged educational offer and that they fulfill the national curriculum. The second principle is to raise the requirements and criteria for the qualifications of teachers. What does that mean? In the last regulation, in 1949, compulsory education would go through 3. the year and, therefore, did not require educators what is required today to any teacher who has educational responsibilities. So, here, the qualification for the degree level and, in the case of secondary education, also for specific knowledge in the disciplinary areas that are in high school. Third aspect: it promotes the explanation of what will be done when this option is assumed, through a collaboration protocol in which schools and educational leaders present the educational project, can decide about the spaces that students, who are in the individual and domestic regime, can benefit and to which they can access. The whole process of this process is also established, that is, as each of the students proceeds to their enrollment, which is the teacher who follows the process of this student during his/her curricular development, with the regular presentation of a portfolio so that the school also has greater information available and can also support the educators of the students. Finally, fourth point: this is a regulation that is also preventive, i.e., individual and domestic education has grown, and it has grown for very different reasons, such as for the choices of families in differentiated educational projects, let us call it so. But we also had recourse to individual and domestic education, in particular domestic education, to mask school dropouts, we had recourse to this regime so that, fortunately, on time, the evidence of ill-treatment of some children did not reach school and were not visible. We had educational projects that did not comply with the national curriculum, which were sometimes deviations associated with some bizarre initiatives, and also a growing one of what, if allowed, I will call the false particular teaching, i.e. aggregations of educational officials who pay to someone who ensures education, but without fulfilling any norm of what is private and cooperative education.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u5	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u6	I conclude, Mr. President. So what we have here is a proposal that respects the choices of families, but also protects this right to education for children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u7	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State : We have been presented today with a technical description of what is probably one of the biggest failures of the government, but also one of the most intolerable intrusions in the field of education. The State enters into one of the most sacred family obligations, which is education, violating the very article of the Constitution, where the freedom to learn and teach is established. But it is curious that a government teaching proposal, which is supposed to safeguard freedom, has the most repeated words'monitoring' and'supervision' — which we do not trust in families to do because we want to impose the unique model of teaching on our students. I would also like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State: say there, how many students who were in home school had failed school? How many in Portugal? No one knows how many they are. But we know one thing: they are much less than those who are in public school, right now, in Portugal. And that is what a Secretary of State should say here, rather than come to defame domestic education and private education. And I'll tell you more! And I will conclude, Mr President, that I know you will draw my attention to me. Again, he speaks in the discipline of Education for Citizenship. Why do we have to impose on our young people gender ideology, what we are fighting for, and are we here to destroy, making children into mercenized objects, media surveillance and cultural supervision? That is your proposal, you will have our opposition and so we will continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u9	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Children and young people are individuals, who have rights, who must be respected, including the right to have a quality education. Therefore, the situations in which children and young people, whose families have chosen this model, are quite worrying, see their rights disrespected by the system itself. We cannot accept that families are signalled to the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth only for their choice of home education. We cannot accept discrimination in the application of measures to support children and young people with special educational needs. We cannot accept non-access to social support for those in domestic or individual education. The proposed amendments which the Liberal Initiative makes to the diploma under discussion today are precisely aimed at preventing the choice of a certain form of teaching from giving rise to unjustified discrimination, and ensuring that the legal system of individual and domestic education is fair. If this diploma is approved, the Government should hear the associations of families with students in this situation, correcting the unacceptable gap that it has not done before. Only in this way can the applicable legal regime be improved, in particular with regard to the evaluation of these students. Freedom of education for families is a right of all and must continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u11	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we are discussing this proposal for a government law which aims to regulate in law—and in fact not in office or office, as it was here and how marginally we discussed in the previous legislation—an option of freedom of education that has to do with domestic or individual education. from our point of view, the problem is to know what the starting point of this regulation is. It is important to know whether it is made from the starting point of trust in parents who make this choice, which is a demanding choice, as we have seen now, during the period of confinement, whether it is a choice that aims to give parents, precisely, the possibility to explore a different set of learning paths, which, in many cases, are even by means of maximums and not by means of minimums. Or if, for this regulation, if it starts from a diametrically opposite principle of distrust, on the basis of the possibility — which we also know without ingenuity, that it has real translation — of the abandonment of children, of ill-treatment or of other types of situations detrimental to their rights and their future. As we favour one approach or another, the regulation will be more invasive or restrictive or will enhance personalised and expandive ways of learning for the children concerned. Therefore, understanding that this is a complex balance, difficult to put into a decree, we continue to make a reading of this proposal which the Government brings to Parliament, thinking that it gives it a more pendant from the point of mistrust than from the point of confidence. And why do we say this? For example, Articles 9. it's 8. the, which speak about registrations, is still given white letter to the director of the grouping, who is almost acting as a magistrate, in the evaluation of the decision of a power family or not having his child in the household education system, or, for example, in the assessment burden, which is prescriptive and condensed in very short periods and much more demanding than for any other student. And, at the same time that you have this approach, in our view, too cautious, the State excuses itself to comply with certain universal rights, such as access to free school textbooks for these students, which often register in public schools, or links with Decree-Law No 54/2018, allowing them to support specific needs, when that is the case. Therefore, it seems to us that the appropriate balance between relying on a conscious option of freedom of education and inhibiting cases of the use of decisions of this option is not yet, in this proposal, done consistently and well. We therefore believe that there is still work to be done in the specialty, with options that must be considered and, if necessary, with amendments to the decree-law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u13	I now give the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today a proposal for legislative authorisation which is intended by the Government to obtain an agreement from the Assembly of the Republic, excluding it from the procedure. A topic such as home education and individual education needs a discussion. What's the fear of doing? The government will know why. The NAP has brought proposals for legislative authorisation and we take this moment to mark our position. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the right to education is a fundamental right of our Constitution, for which families, schools and the State are called. But education only meets its goal when it extends to the whole community and involves partners and contexts in a perspective of educational cities and systemic approach to learning. Collaborative networks, integration of schools into the community, learning outside the walls of classrooms and the intentionalization of all experiences in possibilities of growth and learning are essential. All this is achieved only by ministries that listen to educational communities, policies that place the student in the center of education, with measures that dignify professionals, with investment in family support structures, with synergies and resources suitable for all. The arrangements for individual and household education should be based on regulations that ensure the needs of all children and young people. The Government's bill, behind the proposed legislative authorization, excludes a number of perfectly capable and competent educational officials. From our perspective, parental competences of communication, relationship, management and monitoring of these processes should be ensured. The Government shall ensure that families with less formal education have no educational powers in these processes monitored and accompanied by the school. It is a position that we intend to be discriminatory in relation to these families and that creates inequalities of access to these modalities, based on literary skills, as opposed to personal, interpersonal and parental competences. On the other hand, if the family criteria are essential, it should not also be the criteria for the selection of teachers allocated to these measures, which will have to be motivated, trained and supported in this high responsibility. Also, the interview with the family cannot be separated from a model suitable for children and young people, managed by someone with competences in this area. The Government requires families to be subject to a request for referral, decided on subjectivity, with no criteria known by families. It is urgent to know them and balance the responsibilities between families and schools. In conclusion, I also want to say that this law is a process that requires a comprehensive look and cannot exclude any of the parties involved. Children and young people are not the heritage of parents, school or state. They are people with their own identity and personality, who, because of their minority status, must be guaranteed their rights and needs, whether in a family, school or social context. This is our assumption: to place the child and the young one in the centre of laws and decisions. And so we asked the government if you heard the National Council of Education, the school directors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u15	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u16	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask the Government to hear the representatives of the families. Who did you hear?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u17	Mrs Cláudia André, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: The Government has taken the initiative to present Law No 82 / XIV / 2 to the Assembly of the Republic. a, which authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal system of individual and domestic education. Domestic education, such as individual education, are teaching modalities that can be practiced in Portugal and in some countries of Europe. According to the available data, it will be almost 1000 children who today are doing their academic journey at home or outside the school. This individualized form of education is practised by Portuguese families with temporary residence in other countries or in mobility, foreign families with residence in Portugal or families who simply want to assume greater responsibility in the teaching-learning process of their educators. Portugal is a particularly unequal country. In this respect too, inequality is manifest. For some minors, the option for domestic or individual education is made by your family and is an advantage for exercising the right to freedom to learn and teach, as guaranteed by the Constitution. But for other minors, this modality can be used to expose them to contexts of radical religious doctrine or to the circumstances that address what constitutes the values of Portuguese society, including equality of rights between men and women and human dignity. And in these cases, of course, the State cannot exempt itself from fulfilling the constitutional duty to ensure the protection of children, with a view to their integral development, especially against the forms of abandonment, discrimination and oppression and against the abusive exercise of authority in the family and in the other institutions. It is therefore very important to safeguard the balance between the protection of children and young people and respect for the choice of families that opt for these exceptional education schemes. These families cannot, a priori, become suspected of any illegitimate act or be the target of a sort of bullying by educational or school administration, particularly with signals to the CPCJ (Children and Youth Protection Commissions), without foundation or arbitrary controls, causing sometimes real situations of pressure, which call into question the well-being of the child, situations of emotional disorganization and even extreme anxiety at the erroneously announced risk of loss of parental custody. If the possibility of families, for reasons of a strictly personal or even professional nature, is legally enshrined, assume greater responsibility in the education of their educators, opting for an educational process outside the school context, it is essential that the responsible institutions do not forget that the practice of domestic education is a free option and should not be discriminated against as an exceptional option. We understand that the majority of the measures included in the draft decree, annexed to this request for legislative authorization, aim to find this balance where, in our view, respect for family options is guaranteed, monitoring of the teaching-learning process, but also the possible protection of students who may be at risk. That is why we are going to make this proposal viable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u19	Now you have the floor to Mrs. Lúcia Araújo of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I welcome you, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: In the Proposal for Law No 82 of the current Legislative and Legislative Session, today under discussion in this Chamber, the Government's efforts to recognize individual and household education and consequently its intention to regulate these modalities—are different modalities, home education is taught in the household by those who cohabit with the student, and individual education is taught by a qualified teacher, one student—with the protection of the freedom to learn and to teach and the right to education, in order to ensure that children and young people are not harmed in their learning. Also in the pursuit of the right to education, a right of everyone and a duty of the State and the family, in which society plays a predominant role in contributing to the development of the person, in the preparation for the exercise of citizenship and professional qualification, embodied in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, of the international law, of the Basic Law of the Educational System and of supplementary legislation, the Portuguese State, like most European States, gives the right to education and education, allowing the teaching-learning process to take place under individual and domestic education, due to the legislative need to safeguard the expectations, which are legitimate, the interveners and the recipients. It is therefore up to the State to work together with parents in the education of their children in the teaching-learning process. And, in a relationship of harmony and complementarity between family and state, this has the duty to ensure that children and young people have a quality education, thus providing for full compliance with the national curriculum, participation of students in educational activities developed at school, monitoring the progress of students, the protection of students who are at risk or in school dropout or even in school failure. It is up to the State to ensure that students achieve the objectives of basic and secondary education, in accordance with Law No. 46 / 86, as well as the principles, vision, values and areas of competence provided for in the profile of students, at the exit of compulsory education. So that the State can guarantee the right to education that enables students to achieve educational success, the collaboration protocol is established to organize the student's educational course, the procedures for monitoring and monitoring their educational process, as well as the responsibilities of the education officer and the school of enrolment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, one of the achievements of the April Revolution was the universalization of public education in Portugal, the participation of families in the integral development of children and young people for a new citizenship, a true and profound achievement of a developed society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u21	You now have the floor to Mrs Alexandra Vieira from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u22	Mr President, first of all, I welcome you, and the rest of the Bureau, the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. The aim of the government in regulating domestic education, where the learning process is done at home, with the family, or individual education, where there is a particular teacher, is to ensure the right to quality education, and its monitoring, the protection of students at risk of abandonment or failure. These methods of teaching have to be regulated. We have no doubt that this is what protects the interests and rights of the child. But it is precisely because of the importance and the delicacy of the matter that we censor the way in which the Government has decided to legislate on it, bringing to Parliament a legislative authorization for a pre-fect decree, which does not allow the process of speciality, in committee, and therefore exempts the contributions and the deepening of the parliamentary debate. The option is part of the families, which identify anachronisms and structural problems in the education system. They believe that the formatation of the teaching system, which is still more focused on classification and less on what it should be, which are the students, is not compatible with the education they want to give to their children. In addition, the lack of rejuvenation of teachers, the fatigue and fatigue of teachers, the enormous classes, the long educational times, the formal evaluative compulsion, from top to bottom, the adjustment of programs at age level and, above all, the lack of time to play and play. The play and the game are very powerful learning tools and limit the free time for the play and for the game reduces the development of autonomy, creativity, imagination, skill, agility, among other skills. In the role of structural problems are also the decrease of study visits, the almost absence of music, arts, physical exercise and manual skill and too much concern with Portuguese and Mathematics. The pressure of exams and rankings, with lessons and explanations all the time, is a problem that cannot be ignored. These are the legitimate reasons for choosing home education, provided that these children do not lose contact with the education system and the resources available in public school. However, this teaching model also poses risks: not all families have access to a cultural universe suitable for essential learnings and the profile of the student; there is the risk of closing up in the ideological, religious and moral universe of the family, as well as less contact with other sociocultural realities; it requires the full availability of parents; it can enhance the risk of exclusion and less sense of community belonging; and, according to studies, domestic education weighs more on mothers than on parents, perpetuating gender stereotypes. Even so, domestic education and individualized education can have advantages. There are cases of community intervention in voluntary actions; there is freedom to visit and travel, but only for families who can do so; it contributes to the settlement of more desertification sites in our country, where schools have been closed; there is more dynamism in the community that receives a family with children, but does not have school; it corresponds to alternative ways of life almost ever more frugal and ecological and less linked to the consumer society, close to traditional economic activities and outside the large population centres. For all this, the Left Block considers that before the Assembly of the Republic adopts the Government's bill it is necessary to promote public parliamentary discussion, hearing of entities, including associations, and specialists, with the debate in the specialty. We do not understand the pressure of the Government, in trying to press the Assembly of the Republic to decide on such a relevant matter, a fundamental law and with many implications on the educational and school course of the students. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u23	You now have the floor to Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Education: The Government wants the Assembly of the Republic to take a decision on the request for legislative authorization which concerns the approval of the legal regime applicable to individual and domestic education, which covers students of compulsory education, which will then be voted on tomorrow. If you will allow me, Mr Secretary of State, I will ask some questions, because, in fact, it is important to clarify some aspects here which I believe are important. With regard to this matter, we would like to understand exactly what schedule is planned to develop for the implementation of this whole process and the measure that is under consideration here. And in particular with regard to the content of the legislation, we would like to know more in detail whether there is any practical intention that it is already in full implementation at the start of next school year. In fact, from what we can see, the authorized decree is transposed in a very broad way the content of a porta that is already known and therefore there are several issues that are not quite new. But since we spoke in terms of timetable, for us, it was important to understand exactly the point of the situation of listening to entities about what is put here. Therefore, on the content to be changed, we would like to know who has already been heard at this time and whether the Government is still going to listen to a wider group of entities, in particular taking into account some issues that have come to the debate and which seem to be somehow outside the proposed amendments. And one of these questions, about which we really wanted some detail, is the one that has to do with access to school social action. This is one of the issues that have been raised and we would like to understand whether the government will still be moving within the framework of the decree and, if so, how it will move, i.e. whether it still intends to change or whether, indeed, there can even be some evolution in this hearing of entities that seem to be positive. Another point that we would like to clarify—and, recently, in the speech of the Secretary of State, she has already been approached in a certain way—is to have to do with doubt on the amendment to Decree-Law No 55/2018 of 6 July, because in the sense and extension of the legislative authorization this amendment is not explained and it is a sensitive matter, even more in this context, since we are talking about distance learning and its constituency in a special manner, regulated by the government's office. The Secretary of State referred to the need for conformity with the basic law and, if there were still any questions to be discussed on this matter, we would like this clarification to be given. To conclude, we would like to affirm that which is our vision, which is known and clear and is no secret. The CFP considers that present education at school has a centrality in the teaching-learning process that is not replaced by other modalities and possibilities. As is natural, we understand that there are concrete conditions that can dictate other considerations, at the level of individual and domestic education, but we have a great concern, which is that this never means that the rights to education with quality, to succeed in completing the educational course and the formation of the whole culture of students can be furnished and, in a way, considered elements to exclude from this issue. We affirm, finally, and it is not too much to remember, that, indeed, the public school, free, of quality, for everyone, was one of the great achievements of April and, due to many problems currently going through, and that, yes, they need to be resolved, it is important to affirm it as essential, so this connection...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u25	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u26	I very much conclude, Mr President, by saying that this link to public school, even in this context, is very important to us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u27	Mrs Carla Sousa from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u28	Mr. President, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, Mrs. Members : I would like to begin by stressing the broad understanding that exists here as regards the need to regulate this individual and household education. This proposal makes it possible to grant formal body and legitimacy to two teaching modalities which, although provided for in the legal framework since 1949, had in fact lacked updated legislation and are now guaranteed the qualifications of those who accompany the students in their compulsory education course, which goes up to 12. year. Also, the proposal submitted by the Government is quite balanced, because it safeguards the freedom of parents by these options, protects the training of students and enables them to benefit from conditions of access to school spaces, such as libraries and other school resources. And virtue will surely be in this relationship of cooperation between parents, students and educational communities. We know that there are many reasons that help parents in choosing these teaching methods and that legislation allows them to design educational training. But there is an important question that I would like to make clear here: domestic education cannot be a system for the invisibility of students or an escape method for their schooling. The freedom to teach and to learn and the right to education are fundamental, constitutionally consecrated rights, essential for the development of children and young people as members of a society. It is up to the State, in complementarity with families, to ensure that these teaching options do not see that right damaged. The proposal we are discussing today does just that: it enables and regulates the reality of domestic and individual education, generates security in the formative relationship, reconciles the freedom of choice of parents and avoids irregular situations in the training of students. It is the students in training that we have to take care of and they cannot function in legislative voids. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u29	I would like to ask whether more Members intend to intervene within the time available to their parliamentary group. [[Pause.]] There are no inscriptions, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, João Costa, has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as the time I have at my disposal is short, I will try to sum up, in four or five points, the various issues that have been raised here and also make some comments. First, on the auscultation process, there were regular hearings prior to the publication of the portal, which involved not only several individuals who enrolled, but also the AEEP (Association of the Establishments of Special and Cooperative Education), the ANPED (National Association of Fathers in Domestic Education) and the Association Movement of Free Education. And obviously, starting a new legislative process, they will be heard again, as is the case with these processes. Following the publication of the portal, there have already been several meetings and requests for hearings that have always been attended and, indeed, we are also here because some of these interlocutors have challenged the door itself. So we have democracy here working. As for the second aspect, about children and signals to CPCGs, which was also put here, we know that the sooner we act on the prevention of abandonment, and the pandemic period we live in, this is a clear, more effective example. Now, if a child disappears from the system, whatever the reason, there must be reporting, signaling and acting, or whether it is to find out that there is no problem and that things are okay, which cannot be made to realize that there are no issues. We have spoken here about access to materials, access to equipment, and that is even what is provided for in the collaboration protocol, that is, whether the school, by the child, is in household or individual education, cannot have all the services closed for these children. I would also like to clarify why this was also a question raised, and then I conclude that there is a great concern here about the appreciation of education professionals. That is, when the director of the grouping has a word to say, when we have a teacher who follows these processes, it is not because we do not believe that the school is good, Mrs Alexandra Vieira, unlike the catastrophic portrait that brought from the schools, particularly from the Portuguese public schools, but because we recognize that one of the great achievements of our educational system was appreciation...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u31	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u32	I conclude, Mr. President. As I said, we recognize that one of the major achievements of our education system was the appreciation of professionals through qualification. Even to conclude, Mr President, I would like to point out that, contrary to what Mr Ventura said, we are not introducing ourselves into families, nor do we understand that families interfere in school. The educational system and the Constitution provide that education is carried out in collaboration between school and family. And I leave it with a small cognitive conflict, which must certainly resolve quickly, because it usually, quickly, turn things around: the main protected by this door are the children of the Gypsies communities, in particular the girls, the daughters of the Gypsies communities,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that they were retired from school, under domestic education, for early marriages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And so, just to conclude, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u33	Mr. Secretary of State, you have already far exceeded your time, so you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u34	... I mean that we don't have children from the family or the state, the children are citizens of full right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u35	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when the debate on this point is concluded, the proposal for a law will be voted on at the appropriate time. We are moving to the stage of political declarations, and to this end Mr José Luís Carneiro of the Socialist Party has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party was 48 years old last April 19. I want, on behalf of the PS bench, to greet the founders who, led by Mário Soares, in the clandestine and in exile, have made an invaluable contribution to a more free, fair and more supportive country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After the revolutionary period and not without serious difficulties, under the leadership of Mário Soares and other leaders and political parties, they would open the door to a peaceful transition to a pluralist and European democracy, based on the balance between freedom, equality and fraternity that inspired other democratic movements. The Constitution thus enshrined it in 1976 and, with the Constitutional Government, the lines were drawn which would allow Portugal to take its place in international life; to endorse the request for accession to the European Economic Community ; to maintain its commitments with the Atlantic Alliance ; to ensure a privileged relationship with Portuguese-speaking countries and to lay the foundations for a project of economic and social development and democratization of the country. On 25 April we commemorate 47 years of freedom and equality, in democracy, and this year it does 45 years about the first democratic elections for the one who is the great foundation and source of rejuvenation of democracy: the democratic local power. It has been and is in local power that beats the heart of democracy. It is there that, eyes in the eyes, face to face, power is humanized, with its strengths and weaknesses. It is with pride that the PS Parliamentary Group has been recognized by the Academy three deep marks of the socialists in democratic local power: the contribution to their administrative and financial autonomy; the creation of a legislative framework conducive to regional development, the deconcentration and decentralization and the involvement of local power in social policies of housing, health, education and combating poverty. April brought the discovery of free and democratic life, which became reflected life and lived life; individual self-determination, collective self-determination, the encounter with the magic of local power and, as said a 76-day author, the opening of access to freguesia, places and dwellings, essential goods and services, the supply of water, sanitation, electrification, conditional housing, public health care and the family doctor, the universalization of access to basic, secondary and higher education, access to culture and knowledge and the deepening of democratic content with civic and political participation, which enriches representative democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The internalization, in our citizenship, of the need to promote a more demanding democratic culture, based on transparency and accountability, is a duty of everyone. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS is at the heart of our collective life, it is in all the progress that the country has made, it maintains its leadership by being tuned to popular aspirations and by knowing how to do freedom with respect for individuality, by seeking collective interest and by being efficient to reconcile it with care for individual aspirations. It was the conjugated action of local, regional and national administration that has overcome delays for centuries and worth remembering: the infant mortality rate which rose from 78 % in 1960 to 2, 8 % in 2019 ; the average life expectancy, which increased to 16 years for men and 15 years for women; the own housing which increased from 38, 8 % in 1960 to 73 % in 2019 ; the channelled water in 1970 was 47 % of houses to 99 % in 2019; and the illiteracy rate that rose from 26 % in 1970 to 5, 2 % in 2011. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am also referring to the drop in school from 44 % in 2001 to 11 % in 2019 ; the number of people enrolled in higher education that rose from just over 83 000 in 1981 to about 400 000 in 2020 / 2021 ; the poverty rate that has been reduced; and also the quality of democracy. It is important to point out the positive development of satisfaction with democracy between 2015 and 2018. at an index ranging from 1 to 4, in 2018, reached, in Portugal, 2, 71, above the European Union average, with an average of 2, 55. Trust in the national Parliament has increased over the same period. We reached 32, 3, when the European Union averaged 27, 7. Spain was 8, 2. Of course, the effects of this pandemic are to be assessed in these positive indicators. There's a lot to be done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, to have a denialist speech on these results that show that the country has made an extraordinary path of development is to deny the effort and to heed the intelligence of all Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, democratic values are faced with very demanding challenges, imposed by a supposed citizenship that forgets the past « of the children of men who were not boys», which wants results for yesterday, which makes the polling, 24 hours over 24 hours, on political decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u37	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. This pressure, made on social networks—where well-intentioned people live—and in the news to the second, prevents the time of maturation and regular processing of institutions. It gives the idea that the time of the Rebellion of the Mass now acts on the networks, acting in perceptions, its time is not the time of democratic institutions. We must promote a culture of proximity, transparency, accountability, involvement of citizens, particularly young people, in the lives of institutions. It is essential to fight for a serious, rigorous public discourse based on knowledge and reason, a discourse that, by valuing the ethics of convictions, does not fail to rely on the ethics of responsibility, because it is also the ethics of the Republic, in the name and in defense of the values of April, Mrs and Mrs. Members, so that our days continue « whole and clean», as Sofia de Mello Breyner wrote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u39	Mr José Luís Carneiro, the Bureau records seven entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u40	First to three and then to four.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u41	All right, Mr. Deputies. For a first request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u42	Mr President, Mr José Luís Carneiro, I begin by congratulating the Socialist Party for 48 years of life, an essential party in the construction and consolidation of Portuguese democracy. It is the party of Mário Soares, Almeida Santos, Jorge Sampaio, Jaime Gama, António Guterres and so many others who were part of the foundation of democratic Portugal and have played an important role in affirming the rule of law, fundamental rights and values of freedom and solidarity. But we cannot but emphasise that the Socialist Party, being the party of the government, has an even greater responsibility at this difficult time of pandemic crisis that we are going through. And today it becomes increasingly clear that it has not met the anxieties and needs of the Portuguese. We have public services that do not work, we have government bodies that respond late to emergencies, companies in a situation of great distress and families that do not see the future. And in this the Government has responsibilities and the Government of the Socialist Party has a historic responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u43	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u44	In fact, since history is being spoken of, in your celebrations last weekend, I have had the opportunity to see, with great attention, the President of the Socialist Party speaking that your history has deviations and mistakes. Mr President, I have just started by praising your history, but it is the President of the Socialist Party who has mentioned that she has mistakes and deviations. [[Protests of PS Members.]] I therefore ask: Mr President, what deviation was the President of the Socialist Party referring to? Secondly, how do they intend to correct these deviations? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u45	Mr André Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u46	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, I also greet the Socialist Party for its anniversary. He welcomed the Revolution of 25 April and also welcomed our Constitution. The April 25 Revolution would not be what I would have liked to have happened, the way it happened, but, in any case, I would like to ask you about it. He spoke of'magic' in April and I ask him whether we can talk about'magic' in April when, under your government, Portugal is overcome by countries such as Estonia and Latvia. What are these 47 years of democracy, which allowed us to stay behind countries that had no train line for 15 years? What is the "magic" of April when we have such a country? How can we speak of magic when we are overcome by countries that have been in the air for a few years to welcome the Central Committee of the Soviet Union? He spoke of the Constitution and greeted her warmly and there we are in disagreement. I ask you whether the same Constitution has not also exposed, in parallel with urbanization, the development of mobility, along with housing, the corruption that we have today endemic in Portugal, also the fruit of this April « magic» that has brought here to greet. I therefore ask you whether you do not understand that today the Constitution is also a blockade and a brake, as in the case of unjustified enrichment, the effective fight against corruption and economic crime with which we must fight in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u47	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u48	Mr President, I will use the 2 minutes, because together with the two requests for clarification, since the Socialist Party deserves me to make this request in a cluster. It's possible, isn't it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u49	He wants to go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u50	Mr. Deputy, in 2011 an investigation said that half of the Portuguese understand that the country is now worse than before 25 April. Half! It is the so-called'magic' of April that the citizens have not been able to convince. This is the drama we're going to celebrate next Sunday. The drama of a country that celebrates freedom, but which is plagued by corruption, difficulty and underdevelopment. The drama of a country that cannot let go of the worst vices that it had, that it has and that it maintains, even in the struggle when it celebrates the freedom and anniversary of such important parties as the Socialist Party. And, Mr President, at the end of the day you could say the following: you criticized the 24-hour political scrutiny on social networks. Should that not be the'magic' of April? Shouldn't we all be able to have voice as citizens, without fear of facing and facing each forum, in every WhatsApp forum, on Facebook, on Twitter? Isn't that being scolded? Isn't that the most advanced democracies in the world? After all, what democracy do you want, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u51	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u52	I will finish, Mr. President. What democracy do you want, Mr. Member, when you celebrate the tanks on the street, in the morning of April 25, and you do not celebrate the millions of Portuguese who, on Facebook, on Twitter, on WhatsApp and on all social networks, face and write the government, 24 hours a day?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u53	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u54	Mr President, Mr Carneiro, I think that at the moment more than putting a number of more or less difficult questions to you, our role is a bit of congratulations to you and the Socialist Party for these 48 years of history, recognizing that obviously not always the history of the Socialist Party was the same and that not always the history of the Socialist Party — but that will be true for any one of us — was equally remarkable or successful. I myself, seen as an ever-oppositor of the Socialist Party, would say that there are moments in his history that deserve us more indelibly than other moments of that same story. I would even say that, to some extent, the Socialist Party of Mário Soares, the Socialist Party that has always been a brake on the most radical parties and totalitarian temptations in our country is different from the Socialist Party that celebrated the geriatrics and that, in the expression of the current Prime Minister, has dropped the wall, or that in my expression has fallen to the other side of the wall.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u55	That's a trauma!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u56	They are different things and they are obviously different moments in their history. But the whole story has to be respected, not always recording that the Socialist Party has held the same position before the country and before the history of Portuguese democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u57	Not a CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u58	Mr. José Luís Carneiro, when we are celebrating someone's birthday, we are not going there to say bad, not to make defects, nor to be unpleasant. Therefore, seeking to celebrate the anniversary of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u59	You're not being a big guest!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u60	Mr. João Oliveira, when it was the anniversary of the Communist Party... it was not long ago. I'll say something next time, but now let me talk a little bit about the Socialist Party, until the story isn't the same. With regard to the Socialist Party, not wanting to be unpleasant, until the record that dealt well, on this anniversary, with some ghost that could peer on its history, on the most negative moments in its history and on one of these moments when the Socialist Party led the country to what we know has come next: a pre-bancarrot, intervention of the troika and all that. He handled, somehow, well. And Mr. Prime Minister's formula...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u61	What about the submarines?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u62	Sir, you're always nervous. Take it easy! Then they criticize him because he's always nervous. Leave it there. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Also the Socialist Party of António Guterres, who celebrated... Continuation of PS Member's Protests Ascension Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u63	Mr Ascenso Simões, I ask you not to interrupt Mr Telmo Correia because he has to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u64	Yes, Mr. President, I am always being interrupted!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u65	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u66	I shall conclude, Mr President. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Mr President, we must always do everything we can to calm down. You must do more to that end. Continuation of PS Member's Protests Ascension Simões. Mr President, when Mr Ascenso Simões finishes, I will continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u67	Mr Ascenso Simões, so Mr Telmo Correia cannot conclude and it will eternalize your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u68	True, I don't even want to be angry with the honourable Member. I will only be there, as the author of Bethlehem, to defend the Pattern of Discoveries when necessary, because until then we are calm. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u69	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot monopolize the House with your dialogue. Mr Telmo Correia has to finish his speech. I ask you to conclude it briefly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. I conclude by saying that the phrase of your leader, the Prime Minister, was a well-founded phrase, that the Socialist Party is more than any of your leaders and any of your moments. I do not, of course, want to tell the Socialist Party to put in the drawer some of the moments of its history, especially the most unfortunate moments, nor do I hope that the Socialist Party will, at all, put socialism in the drawer, as it had to do at another time, even if that was my wish, because I think that socialism does not actually lead us to progress. I just want to leave you a last challenge, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, which is the following: I think the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u71	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude. I'm sorry, but it's already exceeded all possible limits.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u72	I'm really finishing up. This is the last sentence, Mr. President. I think the Socialist Party has sometimes been wrong, but the country needs a lot of the Socialist Party as a great democratic party in Portugal. It is from this point of view, from the point of view of the deepening of democracy, that I think we need a good Socialist Party, as we need, of course — and I hope to be up to it — a good opposition. Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm sorry, but it wouldn't have been exclusively, or to a large extent, my fault.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u73	But the honourable Member has managed to take advantage of the situation, with the parliamentary ability that we recognise him.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u74	You've taken good advantage of the invitation to dance!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u75	Mr José Luís Carneiro, you have the floor to answer these three requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u76	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the opportunity to respond to the honourable Members. Mr André Ventura and Mr Telmo Correia and also Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira. I would like to say that, essentially, if you draw two or three ideas from the issues that have been raised, and allow me to answer them globally. The first idea has to do with the importance of having stressed that there was an effort made by the leadership of Mário Soares — and also by other leaders and political parties — to ensure that, in the democratic transition and in the consolidation of the democratic life of the country, we were able to converge into a set of constitutional values that established a fair balance between the value of freedom and the value of equality. This fair balance was made through a permanent adjustment to the country's living conditions, taking into account the instrument of social justice and social inequalities correction policies. That was the mark that was inscribed in the Constitution and that is the mark that the Socialist Party, still today, is proud to be one of the most intransigent defenders. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u77	As for the still remaining inequalities, I could point out that much needs to be done, but let me tell you that, as Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities, I had the opportunity to meet close to 60 countries in which I traveled within, having known different regions and localities. And let me say, with some solemnity, that there are not many countries in the world that can achieve such balanced compatibility of these values of individual freedom, civic freedoms and political freedoms with balanced and harmonious development, a development in which there is a permanent need for greater social cohesion and greater territorial justice. This is one of the marks we inherited from the transition and consolidation of democratic values and is one of the marks in which Portugal compares well with all other countries. On the course we have taken over these 47 years of democratic life, Mr André Ventura, I do not know which country you have lived in and which country you have grown in. I can tell you I was on 4th. the class when electricity came to my house. And I was able to live, with the same joy, the testimonies that were transmitted by the autoarchs of 1976, the joy that, day by day, year by year, with hard work from the authorships, who dedicated themselves to the lives of the people, we were able to witness a radical transformation of the living conditions of our populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from my primary school, only three were able to finish a degree... this shows well the inequalities that prevailed in this country. from my point of view, the biggest social crime committed in the previous regime was that of generations and generations who, with 9, 10, 11, 12 years old, were going to work for industry, for lands, without ever being able to enjoy access to school, education,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to higher education, to express and develop their intelligence, their sensitivity, in conditions of equality and fraternity, as we seek to defend here. I believe that many in this Parliament who have known the way the country has transformed over these 47 years follow me. That is why denying the effort that has been made by this country means disrespecting the efforts of women and men who, from local life to national life, have given their lives in the struggle, undergroundness and exile, by a more decent society. They know that the life of the Socialist Party, as we know it today, began 48 years ago, but it came from the 19th century, from 1875, when socialists, committed to another more just society, created the Portuguese Socialist Party, in conjunction with the workers' movement in international terms. But it was with Mário Soares that this value, which was underlined by Mr Telmo Correia, deserves to be highlighted. It is that societies push between two fundamental values: they push between the value of freedom and the value of equality. Who has better conditions, physical, intellectual and material, advances, and there are those who, at least, stay behind. So society pushes between these two values: the value of freedom and the value of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u78	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u79	Today, the Socialist Party is what it is because it has historically learned at the most difficult times of the democratic transition to reconcile these two values — as indeed it is doing in the fight against this pandemic — in a balance between authority and, at the same time, equality, justice and support for those who lack a State that pays attention to the needs of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u80	We will continue with requests for clarification. You now have the floor, to that end, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating Mr José Luís Carneiro and the Socialist Party on their 48. the anniversary. We would like, in this explanation, to take you, Mr President, to reflect on what the Socialist Party's attitude has been in this legislature, which, in some matters, has clearly distanced itself from the historical legacy which it has claimed from the rostrum. It began with concrete examples: the role played by the Socialist Party in defending the right of opposition, which was expressed with the approval, at times, of a new Statute of the Right of Opposition, in the post-Cavaquism years; at the level of local democracy, in which Almeida Santos had an important role, in defending a more inclusive democracy, with the permission of candidatures of groups of electors to the municipal groups, through constitutional revision; the role that the Socialist Party has played in parliamentary elections, recalling the creation of fifteen-year debates by the hand of Antonio José Seguro. We understand that this was an important road to democracy. The PAN recognizes him. But in this legislature, the PS has taken advantage of adopting backlogs in relation to these achievements, such as, for example, the end of the 15-year debates, the imposition of what we consider to be a "roll law" on the right to petition and the approval of an electoral law of the local authorities which restricted the rights of candidacy of small parties and groups of electors, and which today, fortunately, seems to have had a march back, giving reason to those who have always been the demands of the NAP in this matter. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask you whether you consider putting an end to the 15-year debates, implementing a « roll law » in the right of petition and approving this authentic electoral law that the Socialist Party has approved honor the legacy of Mário Soares, of Salgado Zenha, of Almeida Santos, of Antonio José Seguro, of Guterres, among other names that Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u82	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u83	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, because of the words you have recently used in the gallery, I will have to pay attention to intelligence, because I will have to challenge your narrative. The honourable Member began by mentioning the efemeride of the 48 years of the PS — many congratulations, by the way. It is an important party in Portuguese democracy, it has reached its middle age, but it has already shown some signs of early age, for example, in the aversion to the change that exists in this Parliament almost every day. He spoke in this efemeride and then just gave him a series of developments that the party had had in the last 47 years. He spoke of literacy, health and well-being. Even confidence in the institutions of democracy has spoken! And I remember, in the next paragraph, talking about the PS. Mr President, the questions I ask you are the following: do you think that all this is due to the PS? Do you think it is possible to find another country in the world that, over the past 47 years, has not also improved in all these dimensions? Do you think it is not easy to find countries in the world that have improved more than Portugal in these dimensions? Don't you think Portugal deserved and could have done more in these 47 years? Mr President, if your answers to these questions are not, I do not think it is possible, I think that Portugal did everything I could, I think the others were no better than us, then, after all, the attack on intelligence in this House did not come from my question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u84	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of BE also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Carneiro, first of all, would like to welcome your intervention on the anniversary of the Socialist Party. In view of the balance sheet you have made, there will necessarily be subjects in which we agree, but you will recognize that there will also be others in which our differences are patent. I will only, and only, ask you a question, which, as a day-to-day policy, I believe also to be a strategic vision of the Socialist Party and of the horizon of transformation which it foresees for the country. Some members of the Socialist Party asked an obvious question in the current political-party framework: if the Socialist Party, which governs from 2015 until 2019 after an agreement with the parties on the left, had, at that time, a firm strategic statement guiding its ideals, or if, in view of this agreement, it was only, and only, a very conjuncural temporary hiatus in which it turned more to the left when it would even like to have been a little bit more to the right. This question is crucial when we look at the practical of everyday choices today, because hardly the Socialist Party itself and the Government itself, which between 2015 and 2019 provided the means for the recovery of incomes, the deepening of the defence of the social state, the enhancement of labour rights—they talked a lot about the rights of work—they fought a war with Parliament, as happened last month. This is because, at a difficult time in a pandemic that is affecting the country with a brutal economic and social crisis, Parliament had the courage to do what the government did not do, which was to guarantee social support to which the government had denied them, social support that were fundamental for people not to stay behind, not to fall into poverty. I ask, then, what is the legacy, the intervention you have made and the answers you are giving, which you want to value here. If it is this legacy of deepening rights, of valuing income, or the legacy of a government that, in a brutal pandemic, in the greatest crisis we have known since the Second World War, is on the podium of those who, in Europe, less support the economy, less defend people, and who are in the leadership of those who attack Parliament. It is that Parliament has defended people and strengthened social support. I believe that this is the fundamental question for people to understand which is the Socialist Party today celebrating their birthday. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u86	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u87	Mr President, Mr José Luís Carneiro, I would first of all like to congratulate you on your political statement and the anniversary of your party. The honourable Member focused more on a retrospective than was the history of the Socialist Party. I would like to ask you two questions, one about vaccines and the other about corruption, more to understand how, in particular, from these two examples, you understand that the PS should seek to give body, in the present and with a view to the future, to that historical retrospective it has made. I'm starting with the question of vaccines. The problem of vaccines is perhaps one of the problems which, most obviously, reveals several of the problems that the country is experiencing. We have a foreign-dependent country, which cannot produce vaccines in its territory and needs to buy vaccines produced elsewhere. We have a country bound by decisions taken by the European Union to contract vaccines only to a certain number of pharmacists, with the Government depositing in the European Union the capacity, competence and responsibility for the conclusion of these vaccine supply contracts. We objectively have a situation in which the country does not have the vaccines it needs to vaccinate its citizens in order to meet the objectives of the vaccination plan as defined. We also have the government delaying the hiring of health professionals, including nurses, necessary for vaccination, or seeking to be others, such as the authorities, to make such a contract. Let us hope that this transfer of responsibilities to the authorities does not happen effectively, because this could mean that we are not vaccinated only because the authority of your county does not have the conditions to participate in the conditions of professional dispute for its hiring. Mr José Luís Carneiro, it seems to us that the solution is very obvious: breaking down dependence, creating conditions for Portugal to produce vaccines, making the investment necessary for this, and diversifying the purchase of vaccines, hiring vaccines to which it is produced, regardless of the limitations that the European Union may be placing, whether it is Indian, Russian or Chinese vaccines, whoever it is. There are many vaccines that WHO (World Health Organization) recognises that they can be used right now, and this contract should be made. On the other hand, it will be necessary to ensure the capacity for vaccination in Portugal to be carried out covering all Portuguese. I would like to know what Mr. José Luís Carneiro's perspective is that it should be translated into this particular question on this subject. Finally, I would like to mention the issue of corruption, because you referred to democratic values, and the fight against corruption is the fight against democracy, because only in democracy is that corruption is a problem. We have recently heard the honourable Member from shame to speak in corruption, without the honourable Member having washed his mouth to talk about corruption when we are dealing with a problem that is truly a problem of democracy. Because before April 25, corruption was State politics and the merger between political power and economic interests was silenced... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Moreover, those who, before 25 April, dared to denounce corruption were persecuted by fascist power, by the fascist regime, who persecuted, arrested and tortured all those who denounced and sought to combat corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u88	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u89	I conclude, Mr. President. Corruption is indeed a problem of democracy and it is a fight that democracy has to wage. in this fight against corruption there is the need to take legislative measures, namely criminalization of unjustified enrichment. I would therefore like to know whether, from that retrospective which Mr has done about the history of the Socialist Party, this time the PS will accompany the CFP in the fight against the criminalization of unjustified enrichment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u90	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u91	Mr President, I begin by answering this last question, which is quite relevant in terms of the qualification of democratic life, of our collective life. The Socialist Party — which has already been affirmed by the leadership of this parliamentary bench — has not only been available in the past to guarantee historically the autonomy of the Public Ministry and the independence of the courts, ensuring a separation between the political power and the judiciary, as it has always been historically alongside those who have sought to densify the legislative framework not only to combat corruption but to prevent it, as it has accompanied the current measures aimed at updating this regulatory framework, as it has expressed openness to perfect the regime that has already placed greater, broader and more complex responsibilities on the declarative responsibilities of the holders of political organs or high public positions, as stated today by our parliamentary group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I remember something that is important and worth stressing, given the misinformation that is in public opinion. Law No 52 / 2019 broadened the range of declarative responsibilities, ranging from the head of service of a municipality to the President of the Republic, as at the same time established a criminal framework to hold those who engage in loss of wealth or income that must, of course, be justified. As regards the questions put by the honourable Member on how we look at the European Union, in fact historically there is a difference in how we look at the European project. After the consolidation of the democratic transition, in one of the first moments of the Constitutional Government, as I have also pointed out, the first step taken by the former Parliamentarian José Medeiros Ferreira was precisely to subscribe to the European Convention on Human Rights because we were late since 1948 to adhere to this fundamental framework for the protection of rights, freedoms and guarantees. Shortly thereafter, the application was made for accession to the European Economic Community. Why? Because the Socialist Party of Mário Soares, Medeiros Ferreira, Jaime Gama and others always looked at the European Union as an area of freedom, of consolidation of freedom and also of consolidation of a space of solidarity in the post-war period, so that Europe would live in peace. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not dependent on Europe. We are Europe! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are a sovereign partner with all other European States. thus that any solutions that are to be found for vaccination will have to be found throughout the European Union's space and decision. I recall that if it had not been the European Union, which in fact managed this crisis better than the crisis in 2008 and 2009, we would have had greater difficulties than those we know, in particular in terms of support for workers and in terms of support for the protection and protection of social rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha, we thank you for your congratulations to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u92	You have to shorten, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u93	Believe that it is with great honor and pride that the President of the PS Parliamentary Group, I and all of us receive your congratulations, because it is an honour to integrate the party that was in the origin and consolidation of so many of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of this country. I would like to stress what Mrs Bebiana Cunha said about the importance we have always given to the appreciation of the instruments for the qualification of democratic life. But, as has been said, the qualification of democratic life will always have to do with the way we look at democracy. We believe in a representative democracy, a liberal democracy—that is why I spoke of an ethics of convictions, but also an ethics of responsibility—that must be compatible with instruments of participation and involvement of citizens in the process of public choice, in the process of political decision-making, in the process of monitoring the effects of policies and the allocation of public resources, because public resources are all of us, are all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u94	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u95	I conclude by replying to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo on whether we could be better. Of course, Mr. Deputies. I myself said that there has been a long time to do, but denying what has been done over the 47 years of democracy in our country would effectively devalue the effort of so many and so many who, in clandestineness and democracy, have fought, have given up their lives so that today we are in this parliamentary democracy defending all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u96	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the political declaration of the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is an invisible danger that threatens public health and natural resources in Portugal and on which government action has also been invisible. The safety and inaction of the Ministry of the Environment is serious and repeated. Therefore, after numerous initiatives and warnings, the PSD Parliamentary Group brings this matter to plenary today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u99	Soil is a resource as fundamental as air or water, and contaminated soils are a great danger and a real problem, but they are hidden. They are discussed only in public opinion when controversial cases arise and are neglected by a government that focuses only on propaganda and media show-off. A confusing and limiting legal framework, accompanied by non-connected instruments and inefficient monitoring, makes Portugal today one of the most unprotected countries in the European Union in this regard. Did it have to be that way? No, it didn't have to be like that! The reform of the area of contamination prevention and soil remedy in Portugal was consolidated in the legislative project for soils by the end of 2015. The relevant legislation, which defines guiding principles and objectives, establishes the new legal regime, clarifys the articulation between entities, operationalizes the polluter-paying principle and creates fundamental instruments for decision-making processes, such as the Atlas of Soil Quality, which was presented publicly in September 2015 and the public consultation, which ended in November of that same year. Inexplicably, however, six years have passed, with the pending diplomas in the Ministry of the Environment, with obvious damage to the citizens and great discredit to the institutions. Despite all warnings and pressing need, there were six long years of incomprehensible inaction. Legislative session after the legislative session, the Government was alerted, by different parliamentary groups, with questions put in various regiment hearings. Already this year, the PSD Parliamentary Group has asked in writing the Minister about the problem and this abandonment, always getting the same answer, uncompromising and inconsequential: « The Ministry intends to quickly complete the process in question», Mr. Chief of Staff of the Minister said. This government apathy contrasts with the evident urgency evidenced by several reports of worrying cases from north to south of the country, where soils close a toxic legacy of old industrial facilities, petrochemical activities, mining areas or illegal deposition of hazardous waste. Almost always, when identified, the state remains to bear the charges with decontamination and the populations to bear the risks to health. Pollutants aren't paying. The accountability system does not work. In view of the seriousness of the reported situations and the total inaction of the Government, the PSD acted again, requiring the parliamentary hearing of the Inspector-General of the Environment and presenting a draft resolution, approved with the favourable vote of all parliamentary groups except the Socialist Party, requiring the Government to inspect more, better supervision and more than late publication of the legislation PRoSolos. Only in the last year have several cases been won today, particularly in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. In Setúbal, in the Vale da Rosa, where illegal deposition of hazardous waste has been detected, the Minister keeps the information to himself, but he goes on to say that once again the removal costs may remain wholly or partly for the Environmental Fund, i.e. for taxpayers to pay. On the border of Lisbon, alongside Santos, the land of port and industrial facilities closes a legacy of contaminated soils, which have been reported due to differences in the assessment of existing quantities. In the face of the silence of the Government, the contradictions between the CCDR-LVT ( Commission for Regional Coordination and Development of Lisbon and Tejo Valley ) and the Lisbon City Hall were made public, which allegedly allowed licensing without properly precautioning the removal of contaminated soils. Also in the Park of Nations there is an environmental liability that was only partially removed during the works of the Expo98. There are several known cases and the social communication noted that in the fields of the former Petrogal refinery recent urban operations were confronted with a scenario of contamination higher than expected. Citizens' complaints and complaints to IGAMAOT (General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning ) have been collected and various possible inconformities in the removal and transport of landfills have been reported in addition to the smells. Only the World Youth Days, perhaps because of the mediatism they will have, have made the government give life signs: this month the Council of Ministers has approved, not a solution, not the legal framework, but a group of projects that will have to address this issue, because there also, in areas of the health landfill of Beerolas and the former Petrogal, there is a relevant environmental liability. All these cases of Lisbon are a sublime harmony of apathy and socialist irresponsibility: a government asleep over six years; a parliamentary group that says to understand urgency, but that votes against projects that urge problems to be solved; a City Hall of Lisbon that committed itself, four years ago, to make a map of the contaminated soils of the city, but that did not, and that, like the government, prefer green propaganda to safeguard the health of the citizens! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept this state of affairs. The Government is called on to strengthen the control and inspection actions. A robust, current and capable legal framework is required to safeguard the health of populations and to protect natural resources. If it is natural that this issue does not occupy public opinion most of the time, it is unacceptable that it does not take any time for Minister Matos Fernandes, whose obligation is to protect the people and safeguard the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u100	Mr Bruno Coimbra, the Bureau records six entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u101	Mr President, I will answer three to three.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u102	So you will answer three to three, twice. To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u103	Mr President, Mr Coimbra, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on bringing to debate the subject of contaminated soils, which is unfortunately a subject which continues to be reported for the worst reasons, but to which the Greens have given greater attention over time, through written questions addressed to the Government and even bringing the subject several times the debate with the Prime Minister, as should be remembered. But despite the insistence of the Greens, our country remains without specific legislation to safeguard soil protection, simply because the PRoSolos project remains unpublished after successive delays over the past few years. We are talking about a diploma whose public consultation took place in 2015 and, six years later, it is still being examined by the government, which has already submitted several dates for its publication, but until today nothing. We know that this law will not solve all the problems, including poor classification and incorrect referral of these wastes to unlicensed sites, but would provide a gap in the national legislative framework, which would avoid situations such as those that have occurred in the National Park in Lisbon or even in the Champalimaud Foundation, among many examples that could be mentioned here. I do not know if you remember, but about a year ago the Greens asked the question to the Prime Minister, who informed the plenary that the law would be published during 2020. It happens that the year 2020 is already there and the law continues to be published. In other words, in addition to being faced with the absence of legislation, the reasons why they are preventing or delaying their publication are not known, since the government has never clarified the reasons for this impasse. In fact, about a month ago, during the last debate with the Prime Minister, the Greens insisted on the matter and Mr Prime Minister's reply was that the matter was in the process of legislative consolidation. This answer does not seem enough, nor satisfactory, and what we want to ask Mr Bruno Coimbra is whether we agree with it when we say that the Prime Minister's answer knows little by little. [[Congrats from PCP MP Alma Rivera.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u104	To make requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u105	Mr President, Mr Bruno Coimbra, first of all we welcome the PSD for bringing this issue to debate, an important issue both in the field of public health and in the preservation of ecosystems. We would now advance an answer to the concerns that you have expressed. In fact, the government does not legislate because it continues to undermine the importance of the environment, and in what has been, or would have been, good practices in soil conservation we only see setbacks. I would like to hear your opinion, particularly on the National Strategy for Agricultural and Agricultural Efluents 2030. In Portugal, there is no adequate treatment of the effluents of pig husbandry, there are constant discharges in the water and soils and in fact we see total impunity. For example, only in the Leiria or Alcobaça region, the effluents of pig husbandry fill the equivalent of about 320 Olympic and Family pools arrive - in cases of people who feel like suffocating, who cannot have quality of life. This is an environmental attack which has been repeated for decades in our country and which, in fact, needs a firm approach by the government. There are no consequences for livestock producers that fail and therefore the last strategy that the Government has presented has as its first pillar to comply with national legislation. This, sir, would make me laugh if it wasn't so serious. Therefore, we would like to see whether the PSD supports the government in this national strategy for agricultural and agro-industrial effluents, or whether we will count on the PSD to ensure that livestock producers comply with the legislation, so that there are means of monitoring and real consequences, of course, such as the courage to temporarily end agricultural activities that do not do and cause serious damage to soils and water resources and, consequently, to the health of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u106	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Hugo Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u107	Mr President, Mr Bruno Coimbra, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your birthday and tell you that today is the real day for the PSD to come here to talk about the environment, because today the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union announced, in the morning, that it has made a historic agreement with the European Parliament on the basic European climate law, which aims to reduce carbon emissions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am therefore grateful for the opportunity that Mr Bruno Coimbra and the PSD have once again exalted here the role of the Portuguese Government in combating climate change and carbon neutrality. The Government of the Socialist Party is the Government which, in the history of democracy, has fought more climate change. We have also been the first country to make the commitment to carbon neutrality in 2050 ; we are the country, according to a report from the European Commission, which has better conditions to meet the intermediate goals for the decarbonisation of society ; and we are one of the most decarbonized countries, for example, the electro-productive system. Today, 60 % of the energy consumed in Portugal comes from renewable energy, a historical result, and we are the fifth country in the European Union to achieve these goals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the PS thanks the PSD once again for bringing this environmental issue to the debate today. Decarbonize, decarbonize and also bet on sustainable development and, above all, on a policy of waste and soil contamination prevention is also one of the main objectives of the Socialist Party. But I would like to remind you, for example, that today more than 75 million people use public transport. It was one of the most reformist initiatives that the Socialist Party Government has taken forward on social passes, which has helped to decarbonise transport and drastically reduce carbon emissions. I remind you that your party has voted against a structural initiative to reduce carbon emissions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u108	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u109	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u110	With regard to PRoSolos and this law on the prevention of soil contamination, yes, it is true that it is late; and, yes, it is true that its bill is already ready and will soon enter the legislative process; and, yes, it is true that we have already done a number of things, such as the new general waste management regulation, UNILEX, etc. etc. Finally, I would like to ask you one question: is the PSD in favour of the polluter-payer principle, in which polluters have to pay, or is it, as it has always been, with the attitude of always that companies internalize profits and outsource environmental problems, and is it the State that has to pay?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u111	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish. It's been a long time since.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u112	Today, the PSD is available to change the paradigm and follow the Government's proposal, in which pollutant does it have to pay? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u113	Mr Bruno Coimbra, before he can pay back the congratulations addressed to him by Mr Hugo Pires, he knows that, by curious coincidence, Mr Hugo Pires is also today an anniversary. You both receive our congratulations. [[PSD and PS applause.]] Mr Bruno Coimbra, you have the floor to answer the requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. The note 'to bless' Mr Hugo Pires, but I regret that the only thing I can address you today is about your birthday. As a matter of fact, it's a bit of a shock to see how it doesn't talk about the subject of ProSolos. He's talking about the weather, he's talking about the environment, he's walking around. But if you don't know what the Socialist Party has to say, I can remind you. 15 days ago, it was discussed in the Committee on the Environment, precisely the draft resolution which the Socialist Party later voted against. With regard to what I said about the rostrum, the Socialist Party Member who spoke in this discussion said the following — and I quote: « The Socialist Party agrees perfectly with the claim brought by the PSD ». Second citation: « The ProSolos is essential». Third citation : « It is recognised that six years is by no means understandable». So it is not worth walking around to reach a unanimous conclusion: that the Minister of the Environment has buried the ProSolos somewhere and that is completely neglected, with a highly irresponsible position, and nothing else can be said about this. It is absolutely essential that this be done now and immediately. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u115	The truth is that the Socialist Party gives several very worrying signs. Also answering Mr. José Luís Ferreira and Mrs. Bebiana Cunha, to whom I thank the questions put, I would like to say that there are frightening signs from the Socialist Party. For example, the general waste management regulation has been mentioned here, but the fact is that the new general waste management regulation presented by the Socialist Party and the Government allows for the deposition of inerts into rocks and sands, levels of contamination dating back to the 1990s. They are much higher than the European average, and there is no concern of the Socialist Party about this. In reply to Mr José Luís Ferreira, on behalf of the Prime Minister, such as the Secretary of State or the Minister, first of all in response to the Greens — who have indeed had this concern — to the CFP, to the Bloc, to the CDS, unfortunately the word given is useless. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u116	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome Mr Bruno Coimbra and the PSD for bringing the issue of the environment to debate today and, in particular, soil contamination. Mr President, we are talking about soil and land, and tomorrow we will celebrate World Earth Day, an important milestone that brings us all more responsibility each year. It brings us greater responsibility for the efficient use of resources and its protection; for the reduction of carbon footprint; for the protection of forests and urban shrubs; for the application of real, concrete and rigorous measures for the reduction of the use of disposable plastic; for the incentives for recycling aimed at municipalities and parish; for the protection of our soils, which brings us today; for more support for business models based on the circular economy. On PRoSolos, Member of Parliament, this legislative project is in fact buried six years ago. The government does not follow it up, causing a serious legislative gap in the environment, without precedent, but there are increasingly serious soil contamination cases, as we all have seen every day. We could talk about the Expo or other locations, with serious consequences for public health, which seriously affect populations and the environment. Therefore, we do not see the Government's abandonment of this matter, such important legislation for the country and for the environment. Mr. President, in 2023, Lisbon will receive World Youth Days on highly contaminated land. Thousands of young people will be concentrated on a site with contaminated land, with serious public health risks. It's bad for our country, it's bad for our country's reputation. Mr Bruno Coimbra, we fully agree with the criticisms made by the Government and the Minister for the Environment, so the question is considered to be that there is a speech by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union on environmental matters and one in practice, that is, a different speech and action in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u118	Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Coimbra, first of all, would like to welcome the subject which we have also been very closely monitored. Soils are a fundamental resource, as has already been said, because they mix with everything, with the fertility of the land, with biodiversity, with the quality of the water. They are an important amount of carbon, but they require attention because they can deteriorate irreversibly. In addition, chain contamination phenomena that start on the ground are common and then move on to the fraternal sheets through untreated land deposition, thereby contaminating animals, crops and food. Therefore, this is not a minor issue, and it is clear that it is necessary to safeguard this resource and to create a demanding legal regime from an environmental point of view, but that it also gives security to different agents, based on the assessment of soil quality, the remedy of contamination and the clarification of responsibilities for contamination and, of course, its remedy. This legislation, which we all need, is definitely that of PRoSolos, which has impacts on the daily life of thousands of people, either because it defines who is responsible for decontamination when there is a transmission of property, or because it clarifys the classification of waste and therefore ensures a correct classification for referral in the event of landing, for example. That is why in 2015 this proposal was conceived. The CFP looked at the national reality and realized that there was a matter where it was possible to move forward, more precisely that of the Atlas of Soil Quality, which is a very long-term process. There are already preliminary surveys, there is information, but you must cross it and update it. Therefore, the CFP would like to announce that it will present a draft law with immediate measures defining this process of collection, centralization, updating the data we have, allowing us to establish, from now on, intervention priorities. I would therefore like to leave the following questions to you: is the PSD available to follow a proposal like this, as presented by the CFP? Do you think there are conditions in the Assembly of the Republic to advance service without waiting for the government to do so? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u120	Mr Nelson Peralta, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u121	Mr President, I could not help but notice that Mr Hugo Pires of the Socialist Party accused Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD of not saying anything about this when the European Climate Law was closed under the Portuguese Presidency of the European Council. It is true, but we look at the PS's intervention on this and also say absolutely nothing about the content. So let us see what is the content of this European Climate Law that the Portuguese Government has led. There was a law that came out of the European Parliament with an emission reduction target of 60 % by 2030. And what did the Portuguese Government do in front of the Council? It made this target of 60 % first to 55 % and, as it also introduces compensation mechanisms, we are now 52, 8 %. In other words, the action of the Portuguese Government in the leadership of the Council of Europe was to ensure that we have the worst possible climate law for the European Union and that there is no solution. [[President Adam Silva's laughs.]] I'm glad Mr. Adam Silva laughed...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u122	I didn't know, I didn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u123	I didn't know, but I'm glad the PSD laughs and enjoys PS because there's a problem. At the time of the vote in the European Parliament, it was the PS who voted in favour of this 55 % target, which is ultimately 52, 8 %. I am glad that Mr Adam Silva thinks that this goal is very bad and that the Portuguese Government has done very bad because it was the position that the PSD and the CDS had in the European Parliament, and the Government has taken responsibility for breaking the position of the Socialist Party in the European Parliament, which was 60 %, and has made the majority position the earlier defeated, the PSD and the CDS. This was the proposal and action of the Socialist Party in the European Climate Law. On the law of soils, it has been missing since 2015. It's been a long time since it's been due. We have very serious problems in the country, particularly in the Park of Nations or in the Rose Valley, in Setúbal, and it is urgent that this law be published. It is also urgent that it be published not only for the future, but that it guarantee the present and the past, because the problem—and the PSD does not touch it—is that the soils are contaminated by a business model and a model of economy where highly profitable companies exploit their business, pollute the soils, pollute the rivers, pollute the atmosphere, generate the climate crisis and never have any responsibility for it. They have their profits untouchable, they have their activity untouchable, and then, when it is time for someone to have to pay the bill, it will be the State to remove dangerous waste in case. So the question that I ask Mr Bruno Coimbra is this: do you not think that soil law and the organisation of the economy should force companies not to pollute? It is not a matter of paying and remedying, it is a matter of its activity that cannot be detrimental to the physical integrity of people, to the integrity of the planet and to sustainability. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u124	Mr Bruno Coimbra, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u125	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions addressed to me and, in the process of closing this issue, I would like to point out that there is an enormous consensus on this subject. Only the Socialist Party seems to live in the country of wonders, in which this is not a reality. All parliamentary groups and all non-attached Members stress the importance of moving forward with this matter and stop pretending that there are possible and imaginable dates, year after year, for the publication of the PRoSolos legislation. This is too obvious and, today, it is clear to everyone that the Socialist Party and Minister Matos Fernandes have to go and unearth the law of PRoSolos somewhere to publish it. I know that it is easy for Minister Matos Fernandes to bury her because the Ministry is in Lisbon and Mr President of the House, Mr Medina, he is also not concerned about the matter, so much that he promised such a map of the contaminated sites and, over four years, he has done nothing. There's this obvious dissonance that you guys are. Members noted, a discursive dissonance, not only with what Portugal says about the Presidency of the European Union, the government or the chambers. No, what there is is that the government says one thing and then does another, and that has to end, Mr President. I am very grateful to the Socialist Party that can bring this House's message to the Minister, because the truth is that Portugal can no longer wait. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u126	To give the political declaration of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is never too much to remember that health professionals are essential to our country. If someone didn't know or have any doubts, I think a year and a few months of pandemic has already completely dispelled these doubts. It is to health professionals that we should operate the National Health Service ( SNS ), it is to them that we should protect ourselves and give us security when we live the greatest public health threat of the last century and it is to them that we should acknowledge that every day, with or without pandemic, they risk their health to protect ours. The question is this: if we owe them so much, why does the government give them so little in return? The risk allowance, which was designed by the Government in the State Budget for 2021, is more or less virtual and does not reach anyone. In other words, this budget prioritized the attempt to save some euros instead of the recognition of health professionals. The government closes its eyes, for example, to precariousness, to false green receipts, to low wages of services granted, such as in the hospital of Viana do Castelo, where several professionals, superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy, are not integrated into the National Health Service. There are hundreds and hundreds of precarious workers, hired for a few months, who are being fired, others run the risk of being fired and the government washes their hands from there. Then there's the question of careers. In fact, the professional careers of the National Health Service are the touchstone and the fundamental point if we want to value professionals. In recent years, the Government of the Socialist Party has promoted numerous injustices regarding the careers of health professionals of the National Health Service. Their actions have, in fact, even faced negotiations with workers' representatives, created injustices in careers that are unilaterally imposed. Some careers that the PS government has published bring back workers, delete years of service, retain workers at the base of the career, despite having 10, 15, 20 years of service. One example is the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician. The government has taken two years to publish fundamental issues for the career of these professionals, such as, for example, the rules of transition and the wage table, and has published these matters unilaterally, without agreement from the workers. It also placed more than 95 % of workers on the basis of the new career, causing them to return and "frozen" in a previous career, which had already been extinct, i.e. in practice, caused them to extinguish their time of service and the points that should lead to progress in the new career. The question we ask is: is this how to treat those and those who are in the front line? Is that how you try to value yourself and build a National Health Service? No, this is no way to treat the workers of the National Health Service! In the face of this injustice, the Left Block has been proposing, over the past few years, that the Assembly of the Republic respond to the conditions of career and work. In view of how the Government really refuses to recognize health professionals as the fundamental part of the SNS, the Bloc has come to propose that the Assembly of the Republic make this recognition that the Government does not, indeed, make as it has done in the past in relation to other careers. I repeat: as the Assembly of the Republic has done in the past in relation to other careers. This process related to the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician is close to being completed in the Assembly of the Republic and with good results. Good! We agree with the conclusion that it will be made: where the government imposed a return on career, what we are doing is to ensure a fairer transition; where the government imposed a thawing on an extinct career, what we are doing is to recover and count every year of service of these professionals; where the government imposed a wage table with minimum progressions, what we are now doing is an effective recovery of these workers. The process is close to completion and, as I said, with good results. It is only regrettable that the Socialist Party has stubbornly maintained itself against any improvement in the career of TSDTs (superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians), against any appreciation, any recognition, any improvement, even minimal. It was an attempt to block the entire process. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done as I started. Our health professionals and our National Health Service deserve much more than the government has been doing for them. TSDTs deserve much more than the government's attempt to impose unilaterally. I very sincerely say that after the war that the PS and the government have tried to open up to prevent the increase in social support to those who need the most in full social crisis, what is expected is that we do not have to watch the same government and the same PS invent a new dramatization to try to prevent investment in health professionals at the very moment they prove to be more important to the country. in a pandemic, social and economic crisis, they count on the Block for solutions, but do not count for dramatizations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u128	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you have five requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u129	Mr President, I will respond to the first two requests for clarification and then answer the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u130	All right, Mr. Deputies. You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Carla Borges of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my compliments to all. The Left Block, in its political statement, tells us about the careers of health professionals, particularly those of senior diagnostic technicians. From now on, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I leave a recognition for all the work these health professionals have done in this time of pandemic so difficult for all. In July 2020, in the general discussion of the various initiatives, including the citizens' legislative initiative, which has now been mentioned, the PSD said that the issue had been brought to the Assembly of the Republic with the presentation of various initiatives and that, in this respect, we should give our views on them. He also said that workers could count on our commitment to defending the resolution of their problems, with a sense of responsibility and justice, and that we would therefore accompany with interest and concern the various situations of injustice and lack of equity that were reported to us, with regard to the need to change and correct certain aspects of the current legislative package. We also said that the introduction of possible corrections should be considered, on a platform of balance between the correction of the legislative package and its corresponding financial value, making it sustainable, socially and financially, and we must, for that reason, say it and underline it well, be done soon. It was in this context that, after hearing several entities, the DGAEP ( Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment ), the ACSS ( Central Administration of the Health System ), the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), the UGT ( General Union of Workers ), the trade unions, associations, the group of citizens who presented the initiative, the PSD Parliamentary Group, for the understanding that there is a deep injustice in how the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and their transition have been legislated, and should therefore be corrected, presented a proposal to amend the citizens' initiative. He then proposed the correction of some aspects of this career, in order to minimize the harmful effects created. I give just two examples: the injustice created when it pushes into the base of professional careers 15 or 20 years old, and they get as much as the professionals who have just entered; and also the injustice created by a PS government for about 10,000 professionals, such as the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians — my gentlemen, are 18 professions! — when defining a career with lower levels of remuneration than the general career of superior technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u132	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u133	Faces, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this was the motivation of the PSD : correcting the injustice created by the PS government, assuming our role as a responsible party that we are, in the performance of the function entrusted to us for the exercise of the mandate. So, Mr Moses Ferreira, I would like to ask you the following question: do you understand that the PSD proposal corrects the injustices created, starting with the principle that it is, since it has been approved by the majority? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u134	Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u135	Mr President, I welcome the Block on the Left on the subject of the debate and would like to say to Mr. Moses Ferreira that it is most evident that there is a lack of strategy in relation to health policies, particularly with regard to the valorization of health professionals, which also requires a medium- and long-term political vision. Unfortunately, this has not occurred in our country and we believe that it is necessary for the government to make other commitments, either in the perspective of the review of wage tables, or in the perspective of the rejuvenation of professionals, such as doctors, or, of course, in the correction of injustices created with some careers that clearly need to be reviewed. Mr President, I would like to ask you something from two very specific examples on which the NAP has already spoken to the Ministry of Health. With regard to the payment of the COVID-19 risk subsidy, we know that a number of injustices are being committed by the country. For example, in the collection centres, there are nurses who are receiving it, because they do the collection process, but those who do the collection, in turn, do not receive it. Another very concrete example has to do with hospital administrations that decided to divide this value by the number of professionals. We have already demonstrated to the Ministry of Health the necessary replacement of justice in the payment of this extraordinary risk allowance, because what is due to health professionals should be delivered to them. We would like to know if the Left Block accompanies us in these demands. I also give you another very concrete example. In October 2020 the Government announced, in the case of nursing professionals, the transformation of more than 900 precarious employment contracts into contracts with other stability, into fair contracts. We heard yesterday about the Hospital Center of the Thamega and Sousa, which is at risk for the job of 60 nurses. Imagine, in the context in which we live, disbursing nurses who respond to the structural needs of the hospital that already existed! We have already manifested our position with the Ministry of Health in order to realize whether it will effectively intervene to ensure these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u136	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u137	Mr. President, I shall conclude. We would like to know whether the Left Block will accompany us in these demands.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u138	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you have the floor to answer these two requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Carla Borges and Mrs Bebiana Cunha for her speeches and for her speeches. I will respond by the order in which the interventions were made. We know that the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician was done in 2017, but that later they remained for later regulation and approval a series of matters of greatest importance, such as, for example, the rules of transition, the wage table, etc. , which was published only in 2019. We know that in the last two years there have been several petitions, several strikes, a legislative initiative of citizens with tens of thousands of signatures, just to be accepted and debated in the Assembly of the Republic, which shows an discomfort with these professionals and the unfair way in which they were treated by the government, in a negotiation that ended unilaterally and with a career in which professionals do not see themselves and harm them. Indeed, we have the overwhelming majority of professionals placed in the basic category is to promote a career regression and not a career promotion. We have a time off and we say that someone with 20 years of service goes to the base of career, completely removing all the service done back and every year they were in the National Health Service, it is obviously to enjoy with those who work. That's what the government has done in recent years! That is why it seems to us - and I said - in the rostrum - that the process which is about to end in the Assembly of the Republic will bring good results and is positive. For this reason, in particular, we accompany several proposals, and these may be the Portuguese Communist Party, the PSD, ours, etc. It is essential to ensure fairer transitions, a wage table in accordance with the work and the qualification of these workers, and also to ensure that there are no cancellations of service time and points or defrosting in a career that has already been extinct. Therefore, there are thawings in the current career exactly to ensure progression and remunerative valorization in this same career. We believe that the process can bring good results and we stress that this is not the first time that the Assembly of the Republic is dealing with career issues, because the government has also refused to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u140	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u141	As for Mrs Bebiana Cunha's question about the risk allowance and thanking the questions again, I mean that we are in full agreement. What has been designed by the government, and redesigned, in fact, in a post-State budget portal, which further obscures access to risk subsidies, in fact, is a way for almost no one to access the risk allowance and it seems to us that this is not fair. Therefore, we have even proposed, in other projects, for example, that health professionals have a status of risk and penosity that is inherent in the exercise of their profession in the field of health and that may obviously have remuneration increases, etc. Finally, Mr President, on the conversion of nurses' contracts, it seems to us that we are indeed ashamed that, still in the middle of the pandemic, if we consider that health professionals are disposable and that they are therefore engaged for three, four or five months and that they then move on to their lives. Everything like you did. It's embarrassing! That is why we have also proposed a bill, which has unfortunately not been approved, but we will again insist on this proposal for the conversion of these precarious contracts to the National Health Service into contracts for indefinite time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u142	We will continue with requests for clarification. You have the floor, to put your questions, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a first word of course, to thank Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, who today brought this matter to debate, career and recent approval of changes to the career of senior diagnostic technicians. I would begin by saying the following: firstly, the change to the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, as well as others, was the responsibility of the Government of the Socialist Party; secondly, the PS is sensitive — and has demonstrated - clearly - to the initiative put forward by the citizens, but that reason cannot be sufficient to break the rule that these matters are dealt with in social dialogue, in a dialogue that wants to be permanent, active and alive with the unions. In fact, the PSD has always said so throughout all the hearings. [[It's true! Now they don't remember!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u144	It was the PSD that made a flic-flac and, despite having said, during the hearings, that this was the subject of social consultation and that it was the subject of the responsibility of the Government, after all, approved these amendments.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u145	No, no! Just read the speeches!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u146	He did so, or he thinks he did, a shine with the superior diagnostic technicians. However, the honourable Member has forgotten, throughout this time and in the previous term of office, to be with the Public Administration and even with the former Government to approve the necessary amendments and the revisions which have been completed. How? In the evaluation of careers, in the review of unrevised careers, in the promotion of the review of the single pay table and in the promotion of the revision of SIADAP ( Integrated Performance Assessment System of Public Administration ). That is what the PS did in its electoral programme and also in its government programme. to the PSD, and because the memory, Mrs Deputy, cannot be short, I would say that in your electoral programme I have found no word on these matters and therefore this « flic-flac » is understood only to justify the absence of material, the absence of strategic thinking on the question of public administration. For us, the result is clear: it is the result of democracy working, but here we will all be to assume our responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u147	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome Mr Moisés Ferreira on the subject of debate, health workers. The workers of the National Health Service are, in fact, of great importance to ensure the quality and responsiveness of the National Health Service, to ensure the provision of care to users, and there are, in fact, serious problems affecting them, problems with regard to their rights, careers, working conditions. In terms of careers, this is indeed a fundamental problem for these workers, who feel deeply devalued in terms of their rights and careers and whom the governments of the PSD-CDS and the Socialist Party have not given the right answer to value their careers. Careers must be valued to recognize these values — this is how they are effectively recognized — so that health workers want to look at the National Health Service and develop their professional performance there. Today, in particular, we discuss the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. We could refer to many other careers that have been reviewed and that have been imposed on workers against their will, in an attitude to put an end to collective bargaining processes unilaterally, and the discussion of this career reaches the Assembly of the Republic precisely for that reason — was through a legislative initiative of citizens. Of course, we favour the process of collective bargaining, not of social consultation, because that is another matter, but in fact, in the face of a set of injustices, the workers brought this process here. This is not the first time that the Assembly of the Republic intervenes in careers and we could bring here a set of other examples: the teaching career, the university teaching career, the career of the judicial magistrates and the career of the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor. Therefore, there are several examples in which there was indeed intervention by the Assembly of the Republic and there were changes in these matters. We consider that a step has been taken, but we consider that there are a number of problems that could have gone further and there are a number of problems that need to continue to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u149	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u150	I will finish, Mr. President. Careers are one of them, either in relation to these workers, or in relation to nurses and doctors. For example, the creation of the career of health technicians and assistants is another issue that is, in fact, relevant. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say very briefly that the CFP has put forward concrete proposals on these and one set of other matters, such as combating precariousness and guaranteeing the risk allowance for all health workers. In fact, at the end of March we also put forward concrete proposals on this matter. The question left you with was whether, in fact, the Left Block accompanies this set of proposals which the CFP has been presenting, always with the aim of valuing health workers and valuing the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u151	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Moisés Ferreira, who brought here the theme of health professionals, and I would like to say that we certainly recognize that health professionals, in this time of pandemic—and also before her, but at this time of pandemic—were very required. They were not the only professionals who kept working, but they were the ones who were in the front line, dealing with what the pandemic had the most difficult and the greatest risks. Within the sense of responsibility that we always have when dealing with public resources, because the resources of the State are the resources that the State draws to the citizens, we were in favour of a reward to these professionals for the risks they have suffered. in the same way, in relation to diagnostic technicians and in relation to the various injustices that they complained, with responsibility, we were also in favour of that some justice could be restored. That said, Mr President, there is something I would also like to mention. He told us, and quite rightly, about the health professionals, but I would like to talk not only about the health professionals but about the health users, the patients. It is that we have, today, much more sick than we had in the past, in a movement that has been exponentially growing. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether, between having a patient waiting or admitting him in private, it would not be better for that patient to be treated in private. I know that the answer will not be, because I know that to you, having this patient waiting is better, and therefore understand that our criteria of justice will be very different. I would also like to say, in relation to careers—because this is not the first time we speak in careers—that I understand and we will always try to restore justice in various careers when possible. But let's not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the proliferation of careers in public administration always leads to relative injustices. Therefore, what we should do is walk for a joint analysis of all careers and an assessment that is material, not only bureaucratic, of all careers of the Public Administration. That's all that leads to justice. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u153	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate and thank Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, Mr Paula Santos and Mr Meireles. Mrs Alexandra Tavares Moura, the Socialist Party, in the discussion on the specialty of the career of superior technician of diagnosis and therapy, in fact, did not recognize any injustice or need to improve the career because she voted against everything. One thing may be to say a few words, but then in terms of voting and concrete action, he voted against everything and therefore did not recognize any need for improvement. Today, during the day, I have read some things, which I have also heard from the honourable Member, about this idea of the red line, about the idea of collective bargaining, about the idea of the Assembly of the Republic have no competence to change careers of public service. But, Madam Member, it was the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group which, for example, in November 2020 — it did not pass that long — presented a proposal here in the Assembly of the Republic to change the nursing career in 2021 as part of the specialization of the State budget. And, after two or three years, it was the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that put forward a proposal here in the Assembly of the Republic in November 2017 to change the career of pre-hospital emergency technician. Therefore, in 2017 and 2020, the Socialist Party considered, well, that the Assembly of the Republic had competence to change careers, nursing careers and the career of pre-hospital emergency technician. And if I'm not mistaken, the Left Block even followed both proposals. Now, what the Assembly of the Republic is doing is changing another career, that of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician. The honourable Member may not like the outcome, but, as I said, democracy is working. And the truth is that the Socialist Party has already presented proposals for the Assembly of the Republic to change careers, and even careers in the field of health, special careers in the field of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u156	On what Mrs Paula Santos said, we fully agree: professional careers are central if we want to build a better National Health Service, if we want to fix professionals in the National Health Service, if we want to have more professionals in the National Health Service. To ignore this is to ignore how the National Health Service is built. To think that careers can be replaced by a subsidy that does not reach anyone, by a prize that does not reach anyone or by a "end of the Champions" — which also, in fact, has not given anyone to attend, now — is not wanting to build the National Health Service. The careers are central and, therefore, on the left side of the Block we will always follow all the measures and present proposals for the improvement of the careers. Finally, Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles spoke about health users. Users are not dissociable from health professionals. It is necessary to have health professionals to have the capacity to respond to users of the National Health Service ; it is necessary to have careers to fix professionals, to have no waiting lists in the National Health Service. Therefore, when we defend careers to improve the working conditions of health professionals we are defending, in practice, the reduction of these waiting lists of users of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u157	We shall now turn to the political declaration of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes all the workers of culture who, with their persistent struggle, have brought to the fire the many difficulties of those working in this area and who have been living in a situation of enormous precariousness and instability for decades. Workers who do not fulfil an instrumental vision of encouraging our lives with their art, on the contrary, must be seen and considered as whole-body workers, entitled to work with rights, a decent contribution career, access to social benefits, stability in employment. Workers who, with the full performance of their artistic, technical-artistic or cultural activity, fulfill the constitutional right of all to culture. Those who work in culture and the arts cannot be without answers as far as the necessary dimension during this hard period in which the work in this sector is far from having been resumed in its entirety and in which it is estimated that it will still be very severe damage by at least the summer of next year. It is true that culture can't stand this opening and closing, confine and limiting times. It must be reaffirmed that culture is in fact safe and that cultural activity must be resumed in a broader way, with all the conditions of health safety, in a context where vaccination, screening, testing and social support are central elements of the response that must be realized. But as far as cultural support is concerned, there is much to be said. In addition to many being no more than repeated announcements successively, it seems to be more but being exactly the same, there are concrete problems that have to be solved. at this time, hundreds of people have been left out of the social support of culture, in the value of an IAS (indexant of social support), attributed to the workers in this area subject to green receipt. On 16 April, several candidates for extraordinary support received the reply to their requests by e-mail. Like the PEES ( Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ), many applications were invalidated without any acceptable justification, with several people still unanswered. It is recalled that on January 14, the new support for the area of culture was announced. Between February 18 and March 18 applications for extraordinary support took place. On March 26, some applicants began to receive the reply that their request was not considered valid. Finally, on 1 April, approved support begins to be paid. at that time, several applicants for support who did not receive their payment or message to clarify their situation, contacted the GEPAC (Office of Strategy, Planning and Cultural Assessment). Many applicants thus remained until, on 16 April, the GEPAC sent replies to requests for support. The majority of the applicants were informed that their requests for support, in particular those that were not accepted, were not, or had moved to « the unvalided state », since « on the date of the request, they were not registered in the finances exclusively as an independent worker, with one of the CAEs (Economic Activity Code ) or IRSs ( IRS codes) of the culture », or because « until 01 / 01 / 2020 they were not registered in the finances with one of the above-mentioned main CAEs or CIRS », or because « they have no open or re-started activity at less than 01 / 01 / 2021 ». It's just that, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the overwhelming majority of the applicants who have seen the refused support say that they meet the requirements in question. As the answer does not indicate exactly the reason for the refusal, it is the workers who have to lie down and guess why. Is it a refusal on the basis of the fact that many workers in the area of culture are simultaneously members of statutory bodies, even if they are not paid? Does it have to do with the start date of the activity? Does it have to do with any issues related to the CAE or the ICRS in particular? But what? The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not understand the lack of transparency and information in the answers given to those who are often in a limited situation. The fact is that the extension of the criteria announced by the government in amendment to the door does not yet respond to many workers and does not allow access to many others who have not even applied for knowing that the call would once again be too fine to let go of their candidature. As such, the PCP announces that, following Bill No. 669 / XIV / 2. a, which responds to many of the problems that the practical application of the regulation granting social support for culture has been lifting — the initiative rejected with the vote against the PS and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL — will enter into a new initiative, proposing, among other things: the temporary extension of the openness to finance for the purpose of granting social support for culture to all workers who, from January 2019 until now, have at some time had open activity as independent workers ; the inclusion of complementary criteria to include workers in the area of culture that have been excluded; a new phase of candidacy to cover professionals previously considered not eligible and which, therefore, have not applied; the granting of support for all months that professionals would have received had been duly included in the correction of criteria; the establishment of the minimum value of social support for the culture by workers, in a totally lower value than the support provided by the AERT; Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the remaining question is how will this time be voted on by the parties that have dropped the last initiative of the CFP and whether or not they will continue to leave many of the workers of the culture behind. The CFP here will continue to defend, in a coherent and consequent manner, the rights of all workers in the arts and culture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u159	Six of them were registered. Members to ask for clarification, to which the honourable Member will reply, according to the Bureau together, firstly, to a group of three and then to another group of three Members. Ladies and gentlemen. To that end, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u160	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I would like to stress the importance of Mrs Mesquita always bringing the issues of culture to debate. In fact, as the honourable Member has just mentioned, it is a sector that has been highly weakened by the impact of the pandemic, a sector that has seen its activity completely broken in an abrupt manner. It is also a wide sector, which discovers itself as a disparate, multiple sector, with a necessarily very complex activity, structured around different dimensions, and an activity that is carried out in very specific and very divergent ways, namely contracts on behalf of others, short-term contracts, contracts for discontinuous activity, and, finally, so many other modalities that characterize the way to perform the activity of this sector. It is indisputably a fundamental sector, which provides the country with an immeasurable immaterial value and has a relevant economic value, moving more than 137 000 people. It is a sector that needs support for the impact it has suffered. It is a sector that appeals to a demand for action, but also of realism, because this action has to be weighed and fairly, in view of the general characteristics that the pandemic has brought to all workers. I recall here that this sector was the only one that received direct support from the government, the only one with support lines specifically addressed to the people in the sector. And there are active policies that are being implemented at the moment and that the honourable Member has just referred to—as the extraordinary social support of an IAS, which has been extended to three months— whose implementation the PS has been accompanying and will critically seek to ensure its compliance. It is also important to remember that there have been and there are other support, such as those that are launched in the State Budget, namely, the Guarantee Culture Programme, and still a set of cross-cutting measures that have supported this and other sectors. However, I would like to point out that the sustainability of the sector requires structural measures, such as the operationalization of Law No 74 / 2020 of 19 November on the transposition of the directive relating to the social sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u161	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u162	And it is in this context of structural measures, where the status of cultural professionals is highlighted, which I would like to ask the CFP if it is available to follow us in its regulations, which must be comprehensive but also have to receive specificities, a necessarily difficult and weighted regulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u163	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u164	I conclude now, Mr President. I want to tell the CFP that we will certainly differ in many areas, but that is one of the virtues of democracy: divergence, but also convergence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u165	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u166	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I welcome the CFP for bringing this issue to debate. As the honourable Member said, there have been many announcements on various types of support, and with various designations, for the culture sector, which we all agree has been one of the most damaged, alongside tourism, with successive closures. On 3 February, when this last general confinement was decreed, a package of announcements was announced with a large pump by the Minister of Culture, along with the Minister for the Economy, pointing out that it is a creative, economic, cultural and worthy of all support. The truth is, however, several months later, we are already in the process of reopening and a substantial part of these support has not yet arrived, or, if it has arrived, it is true that, who should have received it, does not feel it, and Parliament has very few instruments to understand and grasp what is really coming. In fact, opacity is a lot and allows all sorts of narrative construction about the grandeur of the support that is being given to this sector. Consider, for example, the extraordinary support in the value of an IAS, which was then repeated. At first it was known that most EACs were not compatible, for reasons that had nothing to do with anything but the activity of the cultural professionals themselves, which is not compatible with these support. It is only as an example that the circus professionals, in which there were many who, for bureaucratic reasons, failed to gain the right to support that was thought of for them. The Guarantee Culture Programme, also announced with great pump on 3 February and which, supposedly, would have notice of opening until the end of the month, then, two months later, had the notice of opening, being possible the candidatures, only that, however, part of this sector is already in operation again. In fact, for some, the activity was opened this week, but for example, the bullmach was left out. And on top of all this opacity, what's left? Two things remain: the first is the promise of the status of professional of culture, which we heard last week, goes to meet everything less than the professionals of the sector ask, so what they all told us was that "this will be dead letter, it is necessary to spend more time working in this statute"; the second is the promise of a chapter in the PRR (Plano de Recovery e Resilience) dedicated to culture, with a date of millions — and of millions we are quite used to listening to it — but we still do not know what it is coming about. So, what I ask you, Mrs Ana Mesquita, is this: what is the confidence that you now have in the structural change so necessary and that you are giving to the professionals of culture, on the one hand, stability and, on the other hand, the ability to develop your activities, to honour what we all say, and the government, too, that this is a productive, multiplier, creative and capable of producing wealth for the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u167	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u168	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I would like to agree with the introduction you have made, saying that the situation of people working in culture is dramatic. We know that these people have been working for more than a year without any income. The support is insufficient, it does not reach everyone and, at the moment, most people, with their life suspended, find themselves in a situation where they do not know how they will be able to pay their bills and are resorting to solidarity casks to survive. So this is the situation in which many people find themselves, these have been the reports that come to our mailboxes and that we have heard in the different auditions that we have made. The Government presented extraordinary support for culture, as has already been said, on 14 January and only at the end of March were the results known. Now, these results were frankly disappointing. Although the Minister has announced universal support that is not fully competitive for all people who work in culture, hundreds of people continue outside and unable to access support. This is the reality of the Ministry of Culture. This is the reality that people live every day. There is a huge discrepancy between the announcements of the Minister of Culture, the reading that is made about the support and the concrete reality of people's lives - the support has not arrived. These situations have been reported, especially situations of indifference and invalidated requests from persons who have met the conditions for access to support or who at least thought that they met the conditions for requesting support. What is the answer you have received? That your request had passed to the unvalidated state, since, at the date of the request, it is not registered in the finances exclusively as an independent worker, with one of the following EAC as main activity: 90 010, 90 020, 90 030, 59 110, 59 120. Members of Parliament have also received e-mails with this information. And the IRS codes have also served to exclude people. Therefore, not having as main IRS code numbers 1314, 2010, 2011, 2019, 2012, 2013, 2014 and others have also been excluded. These complaints have been sent to us by people who meet all these criteria that appeared in the regulation and also have...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u169	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u170	I shall conclude, Mr President. These complaints have been sent to us by people who have the appropriate CAE and ICRS. It seems obvious, and I would like to know whether or not it agrees with me, that the Ministry of Culture has done everything within its power to be able to exclude precisely the people who need it and have not been able to respond to the dramatic moment that workers and workers are living.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u171	Mrs Ana Mesquita, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u172	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Rosário Gambôa, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa and Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias for the questions they have raised. Mrs Rosário Gambôa, for a long time the CFP has been alerting us to the need to understand the diversity of work in the arts and culture and we have proposed solutions. The government has not heard what we've been saying for a long time. That's the problem. In fact, it has been a long time since mapping should be done to identify the variety and diversity of a sector that is so diverse. But there is also another question. The honourable Member is talking about solutions, but this one, of extraordinary support, is no longer giving the necessary answer. Come talk about Guarantee Culture. The Guarantee Culture, we know from the outset that it is sick of many common problems that prevent many workers from having access to this support. Therefore, by correcting this, it is also necessary to correct the next procedure and, in the case of Guarantee Culture, both at the level of self-employed and at the level of companies, because there are also aspects that need to be changed. As for the status of the professionals of culture, Mrs Deputy, one thing is certain: you will not be able to count on the PCP to validate any tool that will be developed in a tool of naturalization and eternity of precariousness, making the receipt green a regular form of hiring. From here on, if the spirit is another, of course the CFP will always be on the side of fair proposals, to defend the rights of workers in the arts and culture. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the CDS cannot stand out of the fight against precariousness and then say that it is very supportive of the workers. The fact is that, when the CFP submits the proposals here, providing a vote for the problems of precariousness to be solved and there is also a correction of aspects relating to access to such support, such as extraordinary support for culture, as happened with Bill 669 / XIV / 2. the PCP, which resolved these practical and non-other issues, the CDS abstained. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] It has therefore helped to maintain the injustices that we are having here today to debate again and that could in fact have already been resolved. Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, in fact the Government is not giving the answer to the most fair and fair measure, size and form, and not even the most necessary for the issues at present. We reaffirm that, indeed, what has to happen is a support that is universal, non-competitive, deeply lost, accumulated with other social benefits and that responds to the needs of the workers of the arts and culture. That is why we have already taken up an initiative in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u173	We will continue with requests for clarification. You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Ana Mesquita on bringing this important issue to the House of the Republic and which, unfortunately, remains at present, with the difficulties that cultural workers are experiencing. The culture sector has been massacred over the years through chronic underfunding. That is why, in times of crisis, this sector, already weakened by the neglect with which each of the governments has looked at it, suffers quite profound consequences. And this is something we can't forget or sweep under the rug. With the pandemic we live in, the government has only one option, to make a public investment consistent with the real needs of the cultural workers. We cannot continue to tell workers, agents, women and men of culture, who await or survive at the expense of the support of family, friends or charitable institutions. The present is uncertain, the problems reach many sectors and, in particular, that of culture, a little around the world. But the Greens consider that this is not any sector. Culture is more than a right, it is a need of people. A need of those who do it, of those who produce it and live it, but also an increasing need of those who enjoy it. The question that I put to you is, exactly, about immediate support, since we see the Minister unfold in announcements. Even today, the PS Member also spoke about the different plans and support. But the honourable Member said that the government is unable to give the rapid answers to bring about the workers of the sector, who are desperate, the emergency support announced for their survival. Does it not seem to you that the government has to respond to all those who have lost all sources of income and are not looking for programmes and plans to do so?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u175	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, we cannot fail to welcome the CFP, particularly Mrs Ana Mesquita, because it has brought us to debate such an important issue. Support for the culture sector and the need to have more structural measures in combating the precariousness of this sector is absolutely incontrovertible. In fact, I also take this opportunity to greet the many professionals who in recent times have manifested themselves and who, even today, have also been at the door of this House, bringing their concerns again. This is a sector that has been very affected and has come out quite fragile of this crisis. And it is also said that all the answers that have somehow been brought here by the different political forces, where the NAP is included, unfortunately, have not been approved. There is one, however, that I cannot but point out, that in the State budget the NAP has succeeded in approving, with the vote of support from the CFP, which is a proposal that aims to ensure the mapping of the precariousness of the culture sector, so that the measures which guarantee the stability and rights of these professionals can be taken, which we know will not be achieved only with the status of the intermittent. But a few weeks ago we adopted a proposal from the NAP, also with the favourable vote from the PCP, which provided several protection measures. In particular, I refer to the need of the Government to revise Ordinance No 37 -A / 2021 of 15 February so as to ensure that extraordinary support to the sector covered all professionals and not just a few, due to the Economic Activity Code, something that the Government was very late but was finally fulfilling. We fully support the concern expressed by the honourable Member about the support for professionals and the length of time that has existed, but here is another aspect which has been found in this defination and which is delayed to be fulfilled, which is linked to public health support, in particular in testing and vaccination of cultural professionals. It seems to us that it is absolutely essential that the support for testing be guaranteed to the professionals of culture. We want to know whether the CFP accompanies the proposal that the NAP has made so that it is properly implemented by the government. We want to know if they follow us in this desire. There is one issue that we cannot stop talking about here and that is related to what the CDS mentioned. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, unfortunately, came to this debate with a concern and came to carpify the sorrows of the Tauromáquic lobby, lamenting and hurting that they have not been included in the support of culture. from the NAP, we only have to regret that the government has included the sector in the EUR 42 million parks that have been allocated to the culture. It would be wrong if the professionals of Tauromachy were included in another package of support when the true professionals and cultural artists have gone through so many needs, being incomprehensible that the CDS does not take the train for the 21st century and continues to position alongside clearly anachronic activities. It wouldn't be if the state...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u177	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u178	I really am concluding, Mr President. It would be wrong if the State were to finance animal torture.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u179	You have the floor to ask for clarifications from the PSD, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I welcome the Parliamentary Group of the PCP and the honourable Member for bringing this issue to debate, saying, however, that the culture sector has been resilient and courageous and the PSD does not give up the culture sector, but has almost given up the Minister. If we analyze the behavior of the Ministry of Culture over the past year, the truth is that we remember several things, all relevant. The first was that Mr.Minister said the support was cross-cutting and sent the culture sector to the Ministry of Economics and Digital Transition. Do You Remember? Was it or wasn't it? Then, it created an extraordinary support of €1,700 000 for professionals, urgently. For the media sector it was 15 million. Even so, it took a year; still, many stayed behind. Does the honourable Member remember what happened to that indigent document that was the transposition of the audiovisual directive, which we have tried very hard to improve and yet we have not gone far? Does the honourable Member remember the struggle for the PSD, which has been claiming 2% of the PRR for culture, weeks and weeks? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u181	We brought here 40 entities and finally Mr. Prime Minister left jokes and open letters and there he recorded in the PRR what was the fair claim of the sector. The truth is that the government, which is beginning to become a master of misleading advertising, has even announced a fund that was universal, not competitive, so that « nobody is left behind». And it's extraordinary, because they're still staying behind! We continue to receive demonstrations, continue to receive e-mails and continue to know that the sector is not being protected. More: we must join the Minister's policy of taste, in which it is only culture that she thinks should be. Circus is not much culture, Tauromachy is neither, nor is it in the Constitution, and therefore culture is what she thinks is culture, otherwise it does not open! In other words, the Small Field can open for a music show, for tourists it is not. I'd like to see what method this is of defination. [[Protests by the MP of the PAN Inês Sousa Real and counterprotests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u182	Here you come, Mrs. Member, I have a question. The honourable Member has made a number of relevant complaints regarding what the Government is expecting. Our question is simple: does the honourable Member believe that this Minister and this government are able to make such a change, with the past they bring and with a minister who inherits his own ministry? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u183	Is this government going to vote for the next budget? The CFP must be consistent in this regard, as it wants to be coherent in relation to everything. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u184	Mrs Ana Mesquita, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u185	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Mariana Silva, Mrs Inês Sousa Real,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles and Counterprotests by the Member of the PAN Inês de Sousa Real.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u186	Member of the Commission, please proceed. I understand you guys. Ladies and gentlemen today are betting on doing so will be. Mrs Ana Mesquita, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it's raining out there and that the day is unpleasant, but I would also like to get home one of these days. [[Laughing.]] I was grateful for the requests for clarification from Mrs Mariana Silva and Mrs Inês Sousa Real and Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira. I would like to say that culture has, in fact, an up-to-date problem, which is chronic underfinancing and the instability of decades. In fact, what we now want for culture is not an act of charity, it is the dignity and respect that culture has a right, as a pillar of democracy that is and must be safeguarded. So, yes, the government has to respond now — and this also serves for Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira — he has tools for this, and he will even have one more, with this further initiative that the CFP is going to present. Therefore, opportunities are not lacking to correct your hand, you have to do so. Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, this stance of « with my black dress I never commit» or « with my black suit I never commit», i.e. what it is, is very round but it does not solve problems. In fact, every time the CFP proposes a measure, in the State budget, to respond to the needs of culture and the arts, how does the PSD vote? Chumba! When the CFP brings here initiatives to correct this issue, this competition we are debating today — it is no other! — How does the PSD vote? No, he does not vote next to the CFP, of course he does not vote! It prefers abstinence and enables the rejection that PS brings. That's the point. You can't get out of the fight against precariousness, you can't get out of the measures that solve the problems of the workers of the arts and culture and then come here to cry crocodile tears. You can't! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u188	That's inconsistency. Mrs Inês Sousa Real, we agree, mapping is a fundamental issue. We have insisted very much on it because it helps us to characterize the reality of a sector that has many factors to be taken into account for solving the problem. And we say something else about what you said about the health measures. We have long placed testing, screening, vaccination and social support to be the measures and dimensions of the response that the government has to give to this situation, and of course culture cannot remain out of the way either. Like all of us, you have the right to this health security. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u189	Let us now move on to the political declaration of the CDS-PP. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government delivered the Stability Programme at the end of last week 2021 - 2025 and, virtually at the same time, sent its Recovery and Resilience Plan to Brussels. They are the two key documents that could change our future. In the versions we know today, they are the documents of the truly lost opportunity. They are the state machine program as the great engine of the economy and the plan of mistrust, in the face of the private initiative. Let's start with the starting point. Our starting point, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's serious. The Portuguese economy has experienced the biggest recession since there are records last year in 2020. For this year, the Stability Programme brings down a downward review of economic growth forecasts. It is true that the cause is the pandemic, of course, and that the situation is common to many countries, but the fact that the causes are not our responsibility does not blame us for solutions and, in relation to them, we should also start by making a balance sheet of the Portuguese response to the pandemic. The Stability Programme foresees that the main measures to combat COVID-19 cost around EUR 5100 million in 2021 ; by 2020 the direct budgetary effect of the main measures was around EUR 4500 million. That is, the two years added, we will have between 9600 and 9700 million euros of pandemic response measures. If we stop to think that the Banco de Portugal estimates that, only in suspended payments of moratoriums on families and businesses, we will have, until the end of the pandemic, 11,000 — I repeat, 11,000! — EUR million and that the new credit lines, related to the pandemic, will be between EUR 8000 and EUR 9000 million, it is easy to reach a conclusion: the bulk of the problems caused by the pandemic is to be solved, two thirds of the accounts are to be paid and pushed forward. That neither the Stability Programme nor the PRR have the political honesty or, above all, the social justice to recognize that this problem exists and that it is above all a problem of self-employed people, small businesses, those who were forced to close or prevented from working and who had to resort to everything to survive, that this is not recognized as a problem, is shocking. There can be no two countries in which one of them is always forgotten. But the failure of these plans is not only not to present a solution to the main problem, it is much more, it is the recognition of public investment, or rather, of public spending as the solution for everything. The Stability Programme provides that only 30 % of the RPP is for direct support to companies, already for public investment provides for more than 60 %, a total of more than EUR 10 billion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is good to remember that the public sector, which carries the legion of this PRR, is only responsible for just over 10 % of the total investment made in Portugal. The bulk of the investment is made by companies and families, which are forgotten in this plan. It is also private companies, which create more than 80 % of employment, and they also generate about 85 % of the gross value added of our economy. Private initiative is the engine of the economy and the engine of job creation. What the government proposes is its absolute reduction by assigning them, throughout the PRR, less than only companies pay for IRC (the income tax of the public ), even in a year of great crisis as it was last year. It is a statistic and cliental vision that will compromise Portugal's future not for a year, not for five, but for decades and decades to come. It is also good to note that much of what is classified as public investment is not; it is, above all, direct expenditure on the public administration machine. For example, to scan the public administration machine, the government says it will need €1810 million; to do exactly the same in all — and I repeat, in all! — the companies in Portugal, the Government believes that EUR 650 million is coming in very well, a third of what it spends on its own machine! And it does not bother, even after this investment, to set goals of quality, requirement or efficiency gains in these public services. What we know is that over the past three years, the state's wage mass has grown at an average annual growth rate of 3, 5 %. From 2021 to 2025, a significant increase of EUR 3119 million is expected, more than the total that will be spent with the digital transition pillar in the whole country or with the pillar of the digital climate transition in the whole country. Therefore, the digitization of the state machine will simultaneously require much more human resources, without any assessment of quality, sustainability or rationality of this option. In conclusion, the Stability Programme and the PRR are not plans to serve the country, they are plans that want to subjugate Portugal to the service of the State machine. It concluded with a final note, which is a correction: the Stability Programme refers, and I quote, « to the trajectory of recovery of public investment, initiated by the Government in 2016. Do not keep on seeking. ” We are already used to propaganda, but it is shameful — I repeat, it is absolutely shameful! — that a public and formal document has no sense of saying something that is objectively false! False! There is none — zero! — recovery of public investment in 2016, what happened in that year was a very strong contraction of public investment. at least in the most formal plans in PowerPoint I’m used to seeing a lot of things that are lies — there’s some smell with the unscrupulous lies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u191	The Bureau recorded four entries for requests for clarification, to which, in the meantime, the honourable Member has informed that it will respond in sets of two. So, to that end, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I begin by congratulating the CDS on bringing this issue up and, despite the issue on which you have focused your speech, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, there is a dimension which we cannot help but strengthen. Obviously, in the strategic options that are made in this plan—and although we agree with the kindness that may exist in some measures of it—there is a dimension, in particular climate, which has been essentially behind or in relation to which, even in some of the axes of this programme, there is a lack of consistency between the proclaiming principles and then investment. And the economy is, of course, no exception. We need to think, for example, about the economic axis of the sea economy and the transition, from an economic point of view, about more sustainable models, to see clearly that there is a dimension that ends up not responding to what is the challenge of our times. in this sense, Mrs Deputy, it is important for us to realize that the narrative, together with concrete measures, is fully aligned and we would like to see whether the CDS agrees with one of the measures that the NAP has. In addition to the economy having to be encouraged by support measures in the various areas, particularly in agriculture, energy, in particular in combating energy poverty or even at the level of incentives to businesses in this dimension, in a deeper perspective, the NAP has argued that it is necessary to create a climate atlas in order to somehow have a readout of the country and mitigate the regional asymmetries that still persist. We know that Portugal is not Lisbon, it is not Porto, it is also not a few districts that we have, but in fact there is a whole forgotten country. We would like to know whether the CDS accompanies the concern of the NAP so that we can also strengthen this PRR in what will then be its final version, delivered in Brussels, and actually have a reading, a map, an atlas, which will enable us to do that reading in some way. So we want to know if they follow the NAP in this concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u193	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, after all, are five entries for requests for clarification. Mrs. Members, the Rules of Procedure determine that the entries for clarification should be made during the speech of the speaker. What we have seen is that most of the entries are being made after the speech of the speaker. If the Bureau were strict, it would cut more than half of the clarification requests we have had. I therefore appeal to them to register in time. In this way, Mrs Cecilia Meireles wants to respond first to a set of three and then to two requests for clarification. You have the floor now, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, there is an important issue in the debate in the CDS policy statement, which has to do with the Recovery and Resilience Plan and basically with the application of the resources to which Portugal has access, in order to respond to the problems of the country and in particular to the particularly serious problems that are felt in the aftermath of this crisis and this epidemic of COVID-19. Now, the CDS and everyone will certainly recognize that the CFP, over the years and decades, has fought, in this House and throughout the country, for a policy of public investment of quality, public investment which is, in fact, a factor in modernising the infrastructures with repercussions, then, in the value chains of the national economy and, often, is not exactly what we have witnessed. The honourable Member herself gave the example of the concept of digitization, which I would say, passes the expression, which is a sort of hat with very broad layers, which covers a lot of things and makes a lot of shade, sometimes. We still remember the famous technological plan and the deep transformation investments that actually meant buying hardware and software. We need another public investment policy and we need a substantial public investment. And this is now where we are at the point of political divergence and confrontation. The CDS considers that 60 % of the funds available for public investment is a scandal, an exorbitance and we consider it to be little. The problem, we know very well what it is—and it is not the CDS today that starts with this conversation, which already comes from behind— : the big economic groups want money! They want money! And you want money for what? To then distribute dividends, « sheet wins, plate spends », continue to live above our possibilities: 100 % of Brisa’s profits — motorways of Portugal, go to dividends...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u195	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u196	I will finish, Mr. President. Just as 129 % of Others' profits go for dividends and 156 % of NOS' profits go for dividends. Mr Deputies, I end with this very objective question: does the CDS believe that it is for this type of enrichment, which I would say is illegal, that we should affect national resources, which are so lacking in modernization and in response to problems, especially SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises)? Or is it for that big capital that appears here asking for money? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u197	Mr. Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u198	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, first of all I would like to thank you for bringing up a topic as relevant to the country as the Recovery and Resilience Plan. I wanted to start by making a previous comment to say that what the honourable Member has come here was basically an attempt at an ideological proclamation between private investment and public investment. But I don't know if the honourable Member noticed that when she tried to pass this thesis, she came into a huge contradiction. In fact, she made an exposition which is, as a whole, a huge contradiction. But I explain why. Perhaps you have not noticed, but I will explain, in fact, that this explanation comes at the end of your intervention, when you talk about public investment, because you know that it was in the previous PS legislation, of which you say that you do not like companies or private investment, that private investment has struck records, that you have exceeded the European Union average and that, as you know, you have put the gross domestic product(GDP) in the country. Therefore, to the proclamation that it made the PS against private investment, the honourable Member gave the answer. It is not true, in the past, what happened was precisely the private investment to be driven by GDP and to be able to guarantee the results we have had. But, Mrs Deputy, what you missed in your speech was really the essence. What does the CDS want with the PRR? What does the CDS really want with the PRR? More: What, then, is the appropriate proportion between private investment and public investment for the CDS? Hello, Mrs. Deputy! Does the honourable Member know that private investment or support from European funds for private investment, better said, have always occupied, in all Community frameworks, and with all governments, is it not with the Government of the Socialist Party, less than 30% of what has been made available? I do not know whether the honourable Member knows that, in this framework in force, EUR 3000 million is still to be spent on private investment support for companies, to which the honourable Member says that more is needed. The question to which Mrs Deputies and all those who say that there is a huge disproportion between private investment and public investment has to answer is whether, while still spending — let me use this expression — EUR 3000 million from PT 2020 ( Portugal 2020 ), EUR 6 billion is available in the PRR for private investment and more than EUR 14 billion is available, using the expression of 35 % of the total of the PT 2030, which means EUR 25 billion, the private sector will be able to implement in the short term that we have, EUR 25 billion, taking into account all the restrictions it has, including the circumstance to co-finance that same investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u199	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u200	I will finish, Mr. President. It's no small task, Your Honor! The honourable Member knows that companies are decapitalised and there needs to be a huge effort, which, in fact, companies have made. What the honourable Member has come to do was just an ideological proclamation, without any solution and making a serious mistake, with a huge contradiction, that is to say that the Government of the Socialist Party has not supported private investment. Nothing more wrong and the facts show that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u201	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u202	Mr. President, I was beginning to congratulate the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the Socialist Party, to say that I am very grateful for the class Mr. Carlos Pereira has given me, although he has perceived, by his words, that he has doubts about the student's ability. Such comments are always an elegance that is good for the teachers, as is the case with Mr Deputies, but I will try to answer differently from the one he addressed to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u203	Mrs. Deputy is more elegant than me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u204	And more beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u205	Mr. Deputy, if you leave me, I'll explain. The honourable Member did not realize what the solution was, what I stand for. I argue that the bulk of this plan should actually go to support businesses and private initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u206	We got it! Whatever the CDS wants, I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u207	It's as raw and as simple as this! I also thought I'd been overwhelmed, and I'll explain, but it seems to me to be evidence. He said: 'Ah, but companies have no money to invest, they cannot co-finance because they are decapitalized'. Because they are very decapitalised, Mr President, and that is why a serious business capitalisation plan is needed, which is, in fact, foreseen in this PRR as a vector, but a very short vector, which has to be reinforced, and much. That is exactly what I assumed would be deduced from my words. Then I would also like to explain to you that what it did for the private investment of companies was not the Government of the Socialist Party, it was the economic growth and economic return that occurred in Portugal, which began in 2013, 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u208	It was the Azores anticyclone!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u209	From then on, values, both growth and investment, have increased and it is normal that this has happened. Why? Because we were leaving a recession and we entered into a period of economic growth. I know that, after that, it does not fit into this dialectic that we find here, in which one wants economic cycles to break exactly right with the days when governments enter and go out, but, finally, the economy has these ideas, which do not have to work alongside the demands of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u210	It's Nazaré's cannon!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u211	However, I note that the honourable Member has not been able to defend the enormous falsehood for which I have called attention to private investment. With regard to the CFP and Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to say the following: I made it clear here what I wanted, that it was a lot more money to support businesses and the private initiative, and he said, and I quote, 'what you want are large economic groups who want money to distribute dividends'.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u212	It's not too short!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u213	Therefore, for the honourable Member, the companies that create 85% of the jobs, for the workers you say you defend, are large economic groups that want but are dividends.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u214	But what companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u215	It's funny! I don't think it makes any sense to enable the entire economic fabric of the whole country, because it's the big companies that want to distribute dividends... maybe they want to create jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u216	That one doesn't take anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u217	No one killed as many SMEs as you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u218	It is normal for you to agree with this. Of course! This, even ideologically, could no longer agree with you. But, honourable Member, I know many workers who have lived in countries that have been ruled as Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u219	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u220	... for countries that are governed as I think countries should be governed. The opposite has not happened! For some reason, it must be! For some reason, it must be! And look that it certainly wasn't with megaprojects increasing the state machine. Finally, Mrs Inês Sousa Real is right on the issue for which she draws attention. In fact, this plan tries to respond, but it is still a lot of park, to regional asymmetries and to a country that is often forgotten beyond good intentions. [[Protests of PS Members.]] And, therefore, from this point of view, I suspect that we will have a meeting of opinions, not exactly in everything, especially as regards agriculture and what should or should not be supported, because my vision has always been that the agricultural sector cannot be or is an enemy of the environment. But I think we will find many ways and ways to get to points in common.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u221	We shall then proceed with the requests for clarification for which Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u222	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I think I can thank you from now on for bringing up these central issues, which are fundamental, and you have already noticed, from the context of the debate, that they make all the sense and are timely at the moment we live. It is true that over the past 35 years, European funds have contributed to our development — we agree on this, I think this issue is not a question of doubt — they have helped to create fundamental infrastructures and they are also an example of European solidarity with the most disadvantaged regions, cohesion regions, and I think Portugal must be satisfied, let us say, because they exist. But it is also true that, in many circumstances, and we know that this happened in Portugal, investments were not always a development factor, they were very bad investments. There were, in Portugal, terrible, non-productive investments, which created factors of poverty and additional expenditure that make no sense. The Socialist Party, over the past 25 years, has already taken 18 years of government in Portugal. In 25 years he has 18 years of government in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u223	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u224	And this fact, when we talk about European funds, the management of European funds, and a Government of the Socialist Party, must leave us all deeply concerned. For the PSD, and I'm afraid so, the country knows this, it's a cause of great concern to have the PS today in the government with the amount of funds we have to manage in the near future, and we already realize that over the next five years, particularly with the PRR, which comes with 16 billion euros, is a lot of money. And we are concerned because, in fact, their public policies are responsible for the way we do, but also for the way we do not. They are always public decisions, they are policies that are assumed and, when we take positions, there are always opportunities that are not followed, there are others that are assumed and therefore there are risks that are taking place. In the PRR, there are more than 16 billion euros of European funds in question and which are an excellent opportunity to boost investment in companies, in the economy, in industry, investment with the capacity to generate wealth, investment in export sectors, public investment—of course it must also not be public, but also — in sectors and services that improve people's quality of life. This is what is intended with this PRR and that's how it should be. But the truth is that this is not the way it is, that is not the objective, the PRR does not point to this, the PRR has planned a very strong public investment, as we already see here, in the debate, and Mrs Cecilia Meireles, and very well, has caused this problem, which is a mistake. And it is a mistake, in this sense: today, we all know, it is the companies that create jobs, it is the companies that create economic dynamics, that create economic growth, and that is why there should be a strong investment from the PRR, but that is not the way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u225	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u226	I conclude, Mr. President. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I ask you three questions very quickly. Do we or do we not risk losing a decisive opportunity to support businesses and the economy? I have heard your opinion, but I would like you to strengthen the position of the CDS in order to know if that's how you think it is. Are we running the serious risk of leaving this five-year period, and the next five years are of strong investment, without giving the desired leap of development and growth? These are questions that I think are worth answering. How is it that, in view of the current state of our economy, the government does not realize that choosing public policies, where it does not include companies, as an essential factor of investment and support,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u227	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u228	... shouldn't it be, let's say, the central theme of this PRR? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u229	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u230	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Cecilia Meireles and the CDS on this subject, but, in fact, after her intervention, we realize that it was a less concern about the PRR and more of an attack on the idea of public investment and the need for public investment. But it's all right, it's a matter of separating water from those who actually believe that public investment is no good for anyone and it's no use for anything and that they think that public money should be invested in private.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u231	Who said it's public money? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u232	It was quite clear here what the position is. With regard to the PRR, in particular, we can even say that what has been announced for several months by the Government, in particular by the Prime Minister, and the result that has come out of the PRR discussion itself is not the same. It is not, in fact, the same thing that has been announced for several months, and what has actually been presented. But a very different thing is to come here to have a debate that public investment is not the best way out for times of crisis, until, in the Portuguese case, it has been found that it is investment in public services and public investment that helps to leverage the economy itself. Therefore, the criticism that Mrs Deputies makes of the percentage and the amount that is scheduled, in the PRR, for public investment only makes sense for those who defend more the private sector and its profits. And, Mrs Deputies, we can talk about the question of Portuguese businesses and economic fabric, which we know is very well formed, in the vast majority, by micro and small enterprises, but we just need to see the practice and history, in particular of European funds, in order to understand who is always able to reach these European funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u233	It's the SMEs! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u234	So we have to be serious, when we make this debate and talk about support for companies, and realize what the reality is. And the reality of recent years has not been that of micro-enterprises being the most favoured with the various Community funds and, in particular, with the PRR. There are a number of issues here that the CDS cannot clarify. The only thing that becomes very clear in this debate, even through the intervention of the PSD itself, is that they consider public investment a mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u235	Don't! I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u236	All right, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! If they consider public investment a mistake, it is a position that the right will have to take very clearly, but in fact, here we have a separation from water. Madam Member, if the PRR also exists to respond to major issues, such as, for example, the environmental transition, where the railway takes priority, and here public investment is central, there can only be public investment, so it is in these matters that we have to focus on. [[Congratulations from BE Member João Vasconcelos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u237	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u238	Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate Mr Afonso Oliveira and Mrs Isabel Pires and say that I will try to give a common answer which, I believe, will clarify the doubts of both. First of all, I made it clear that public investment and public spending, from my point of view, are different things.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u239	By the way, no! That's not what you said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u240	Not all public spending is public investment. They're different things! And yes, Portugal needs public investment, because parties like, for example, the PCP and the Left Block have supported a government that has given the biggest shot that public investment has seen, in recent decades, in Portugal, although now they disguise! They all think that public investment is very important, but when the time came to vote, I apologize a lot, that's not what they did.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u241	What a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u242	Different from that is the direct expenditure on the state machine. We will see what the future brings us, but I hope that two or three years from now they are not here to give me reason and to say that, after all, a lot of this was indeed a direct public expenditure on the state machine, disguised as public investment, because that is what I think is going to happen. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, 80 % to 85 % of employment in Portugal is created by private companies. Come now to say that they cannot receive funds, because they are all big companies and the funds do not reach the SMEs...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u243	And they're not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u244	Well, if they don't get here, let's get them in! We can't say: « Ah, no, no, this is all great companies, which want but it is profit and therefore if 85 % of the workers in Portugal are there, good, they are arranged, because what we want is investment in our public services». This, with all honesty, has no feet or head! Thirdly, where can investment go from the point of view of the private initiative? Clearly, the pillar of innovation can, and should, in my view, be strengthened: the export bet, industry, marketable goods, tourism, which is completely forgotten. All of this can and should be strengthened. On the other hand, in agriculture too, innovation has an important role, and it would be good for the PRR not to forget it. Secondly, where it can and should be further strengthened, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was clear on what seems to be the problem. The problem is that the bulk of the Portuguese response to the pandemic is not yet given. It was given in the form of moratoriums and credit, which means that, in families and businesses, from now on, when the rest of Europe is leaving it, a crisis will arise, because this was not a standard in most European countries. So if we want our companies to go out there and they're competing without stones at the neck with the other companies that don't have them, we have to find a way to capitalize them. And what is planned is neither by far nor by any means necessary. More precise than this I imagine you find in many PowerPoints, but frankly, it seems to me that I was quite obvious, from the point of view of what I think should be be bets and what I think is wrong and from the point of view of what you are betting. Then they tell me "it's ideological. » We are all ideological here. This is called choice, freedom and democracy. If we were all technicians and all alike, people couldn't choose. They had to choose all the public service, even if it did not create any jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u245	I was doing so well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u246	We are now following the political declaration of the NAP. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last few weeks, at the ride of José Socrates and Ricardo Salgado, Portuguese justice has been much talked about by the worst reasons and our country has been plunged into a discussion on its effectiveness. However, the country wants to know what the Assembly of the Republic wants to do about this problem and, with some exceptions, this action does not coincide with the mere proclamation of a set of intentions that does not take us anywhere. We must not forget that we are facing a structural problem based on the lack of means of our judicial system, which has compromised its effectiveness, in particular in combating corruption and also in the necessary adequacy of the existing legal-criminal framework. Let us begin with the Constitutional Court, a court which, in addition to a brutal lack of human resources, does not even have Internet coverage in all areas of its facilities. But we're just talking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a sovereign body and a guarantee of the legal and constitutional order itself. Nothing else, nothing less. Let us look, for example, at the problem of lack of means, which is more than identified, at least since 2018, in the justice pact. But the Government and this Parliament do not want to comply with it and, year after year, the State budget after the State budget will leave this pact and its fundamental measures well closed in the drawer. Economic-financial crime and corruption crimes are increasingly complex, as shown by, for example, the Luanda Leaks case or the BES case ( Banco Espírito Santo ). This type of crime is not solved by the logic of « proudly alone ». International judicial cooperation is, and has been, absolutely fundamental. But for this to be possible, there must be teams with competences for this purpose, which include, for example, professionals with translation skills. How can we cooperate if we cannot even communicate properly with the counterparty or even have access to the documentation provided? Well, the NAP doesn't know, but it's the only party that doesn't understand it, since in November this Parliament rejected, with votes against the PS and PSD abstains, the Left Block, the PCP, the CDS, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative, a proposal by the NAP that aimed to address this failure. So if, in this matter, three years ago, the justice pact has been in the drawer, it is because this Parliament wants it. The Justice Pact also tells us that our country needs to define a legal framework to ensure an articulation of the provision of expertise by public entities such as the CIAP (Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ), again a key to combating economic-financial crime and crimes of corruption, which is precisely in cooperation with the CIAP with public entities. That is what this proposal of the Justice Pact tells us. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, how can the CPID cooperate with public entities if there is no legal regime which eliminates, for example, a set of indefinitions that continue to exist as regards the functional connection, the hierarchical chain and the responsibility of the actors? Well, the NAP does not know how either, but it is one of the few parties that does not understand it, since, in November, this Parliament rejected, with the votes against the PS and, once again, the abstentions of the PSD, the Left Block, the CDS and the Arrival, a proposal by the NAP that aimed to overcome this failure. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, let me say that if the justice pact has been in the drawer for three years in this area, it is because this Parliament, once again, wants to do so. But we are not left here: the Justice Pact tells us, yet, that the Central Department of Research and Criminal Action and the Departments of Regional Investigation and Criminal Action should have expert multidisciplinary teams and that all regions of the country should have technical advice offices in the areas of corruption, fraud and economic-financial crime. The actors of the judicial system have been clear about the need for this multidisciplinary technical advice to combat complex crime. How, for example, can a local judge understand and analyze complex financial documents without even having adequate advice? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the NAP does not know either, but it is, by the way, of the few parties that do not understand it, since, in November last year, this Parliament rejected, once again, with the votes against the Socialist Party and the abstention of the PSD, a proposal from the NAP that aimed to overcome this failure. So, here again, not running away from the rule, if, in this matter, the justice pact has been in the drawer for three years, it is precisely because this Parliament still wants it. The solutions exist, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. What does not exist, as it is very clear, is political will to change order. We cannot — let it be clear — close our eyes to a systemic problem, which I repeat again, of our country, a structural problem which empties one of the absolutely fundamental pillars of our democratic rule of law, which is justice. In the last State budget, there have been several proposals presented by the NAP and we have therefore come to this debate aware of the work we have done to combat crime and to strengthen the means, either at the level of judges or at the level of the Public Prosecutor. We will not turn to the risk of corruption associated with the new 'European bazauca' and the management of public money in COVID-19 times, so we can include new transparency mechanisms in the State budget, which allow us to see where public money and European funds are being channelled through a transparency portal, a transparency report on green hydrogen business, or even the publication of the list of foundations with public money. For the NAP, as we have demonstrated by our action, better democracy and management of public money is only possible and feasible through an effective justice system and with the existence of mechanisms to prevent corruption, with more transparency and more scrutiny of civil society. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot continue to turn our backs on a giant gap that exists in terms of the legal regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political and high public positions, such as the question, precisely, of unjustified or illegal enrichment, so alarmed about the case of Socrates. That is why the NAP is committed today to presenting a legislative initiative that meets not only the regulation of this matter but also, of course, the promises of future heritage advantages. In conclusion, I cannot help but launch this challenge: people out there want to know what this Parliament is going to do not only to fight corruption, but also to solve the systemic problems that continue to persist with regard to justice. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to know if they're going to accompany us in this fight. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u248	Five Members have signed up to make requests for clarification to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who informed the Bureau that they wanted to respond first to three and then to the other two. To begin the series of the first three requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u249	Mr President, I begin by greeting Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for bringing the issue of justice to debate, which is always a current matter, because justice is indeed a central pillar of our democracy. That is why governments are required to work towards building a system of justice that is faster, more efficient and, above all, more accessible to citizens, because if justice is not accessible to citizens there is no justice for all and, without justice for all, there is no justice. On the other hand, long-term justice is not justice either. But when we talk about justice, we must also talk about the people who support it, from the very moment on, the justice officers, who continue to fail to see the process relating to their duly completed status, with the deadlines that are all exceeded. In our view, what is required is to work towards reconquering or strengthening the Portuguese confidence in justice, but this is only possible if we work on two levels: firstly, by providing the courts, as well as the criminal investigation bodies, with the means necessary to meet the demands of such a noble function. We speak not only of the human resources but also of the technical means, especially at a time when we see a great deal of sophisticated instruments used for the practice of crimes such as corruption or money laundering. Secondly, at the legislative level, starting with the typification of the crime of illicit or unjustified enrichment, which, moreover, the Greens want to present a legislative initiative, it is good not to lose sight of the need to put an end to the instruments that empower corruption and that serve only to make criminal investigation difficult or even impossible. We refer, on the one hand, to tax havens, but also to golden sights. Speaking in visas gold, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, having the PAN presented, in the previous legislation, a bill to establish green visas, which would be added to the visasgold, therefore with the same philosophy and the same risks with regard to money laundering, corruption or other crimes, what I ask you, Mrs Deputy, is whether the PAN intends to re-submit the proposal to establish green visas and, if so, how does that proposal fit in in the fight against corruption, especially in terms of its prevention and affirmation of justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u250	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u251	Mr President, I also congratulate Mrs Inês de Sousa Real on bringing this issue to this House. Mrs Deputy, corruption is indeed an intolerable crime in a democratic society, and we all consider that without exception. However, his message was typically populist in the sense of "PAN is the good, it is the only one who cares about fighting corruption and all the others are bandits! Do not keep on seeking. ” This is a populist speech that I am used to listening to in other places and I confess that, on the side of the PAN, I wasn't expecting much. But, finally, it must be the contagion. First of all, this is not true, and you know, as well or much better than I, that much in this country has already been done in the fight against corruption, not only in terms of providing the CIAP with instruments and technical advisory offices. In fact, the honourable Member has also done a very poor portrait of our judges, as people who are absolutely incapable of judicial cooperation in international matters, which is not true. It could be making a comprehensive list of measures that this Parliament has taken, and there are many that, of course, still need to be adopted. For example, the anti-corruption strategy tries to address this problem, go to its roots, strengthening the prevention and detection of corruptive behaviour. In fact, I would like to know the view of the NAP regarding, for example, the introduction of regulatory compliance plans, which are absolutely essential, not only in the public sector but also in the private sector, to detect and prevent corruption. What is the position of the NAP, for example, with regard to one of the proposed proposals, which is the possibility of an accessory penalty for the prohibition of duties, which may go up to 10 years?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u252	You have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u253	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we naturally follow the question of illicit enrichment and that we will present a proposal to that end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u254	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u255	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I congratulate her on the topic of the political declaration of the NAP and I would like to make two brief reflections on what she has said to us. First of all, I believe that it has done well to allow me - this opinion - to adopt a record of analysis of the question of justice without focusing solely on the so-called'spectacular justice', the highly mediated justice because, in fact, the problems that arise in justice are problems of day to day and which occupy 99 % of the work of the courts, officials, judges and magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office. From this point of view, Mrs Deputies, there is no doubt that we do well if we do not talk about the crisis of justice solely to talk about cases of great mediaization, but precisely analyzing the daily functioning of the judicial system and evaluating its immense weaknesses. We have a set of great concerns, which have to do with not only questions of a procedural nature, but with the very condition of the functioning of the judicial system. Therefore, the first reflection has to do with this, with this need to look at routine justice, if we want to say so. A second note, Mrs Deputies, is to focus on what seems to me to be absolutely patent. As far as we know, the National Strategy for Combating Corruption, which has a huge interface with the justice sector, does not include an indispensable instrument for a strategy against corruption that takes itself seriously. A strategy against corruption that takes seriously must have in its centre the « go on the money trail ». Some will call this populism. I will call this determination, as it is done within constitutional procedures, i.e. preserving, as it should be, the principle of presumption of innocence. The Left Block today introduced a bill just in this sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u256	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u257	I conclude, Mr. President. I would like to know what the NAP has to do with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u258	To reply, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u259	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions you have put to me, starting by answering the final question. The NAP not only accompanies and will also give rise to an initiative in this regard, because we follow the reading it makes, Mr José Manuel Pureza. In fact, the National Strategy for Combating Corruption leaves the question of illicit enrichment incomprehensible. It is true that we have to study the legal accommodation that should condition this activity and this behaviour, namely the non-declaration of assets or incomes, for example, as the union association of judges has already defended, together with mechanisms to track and monitor the way in which these incomes are to be obtained, including non-declaration of expected or future incomes, until the measure taken at the IRS level with regard to the additional rate for holders of public positions and high political positions is not sufficient to respond to this problem. Therefore, on this point, Mr President, we are fully in line with the problem that needs to be resolved in terms of our right. Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, there is a structural problem of justice. I understand that, in your eyes, it may seem like a populist speech, but this is the question that outside people want to be resolved. There is a structural problem with the reform of our justice system that needs to be corrected. And the honourable Member may not have given notice, but in the successive hearings which have been made to the Minister of Justice, the question remains to be answered. When we ask about the justice pact and the fact that it is not being implemented, the Minister always stresses the importance of giving forms and tools for the work of judges. And we are not devaluing the technical competence of the Members. Judges, whether from a judicial point of view or from the Public Ministry itself, we are talking about something which is contained in the justice pact which should have been effective and which the judicial authors themselves claim and ask for, Mrs. We must not forget that corruption and the absence of more effective mechanisms in combating money laundering cost the country: it costs EUR 18 billion to the country. So this is too serious a subject not to be debated, whether it's populist or not. We will not steal from this debate, Mrs Deputies, and here we are about to do so. With regard to the question put by Mr PEV, I can only reinforce what has been a clear concern of the NAP in the fight against the issue of golden visas, not only with regard to the parliamentary assessment that has been presented by the Left Block, but because the NAP has also put forward a proposal precisely to put an end to that regime, which we find not only manifestly unbalanced and unjust with regard to access to Portuguese national territory, as we take into account the risks that there are, by virtue of this regime, corruption and money laundering we know and which are manifestly harmful. On the issue of green visas, this is a proposal presented by the NAP in the past legislature and which does not intend to resume in this mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u260	For clarifications, Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Inês Sousa Real, thanking her for bringing this issue to debate, which is particularly expensive to me, despite the cautions that we have to have when we discuss issues that are as important to the hot and the tow of media cases as we all know. We need speedy, reliable, accessible and close justice for our citizens. We need a structural reform of justice. We need the reform we've never had. I recall that justice has moved from the New State to democracy without any fundamental change. The only and most significant difference was that of the empowerment of the judiciary careers of the Public Prosecutor's Office — which, at present, was not judicial — for the judiciary. Even so, the judges who judged and condemned in the courts of the New State, in the courts of the PIDE (International Police and State Defense), went on unbridled to the current courts and continued to judge without any judgment of censorship or ethics. We need to reform the common jurisdiction and, above all, the deceased, dead, killed, "dead" administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. The fight against corruption is fundamental and is a pillar that flows from a healthy and just society. The PSD has always been ahead of constructive proposals that stem from the necessary reform of justice, which includes the fight against economic and financial crime, but which goes far beyond it. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: do you think it is necessary to make a structural reform of justice and not only those measures which have either listed or are sufficient to adjust pointsad hoc or avvy, the towing of concrete cases and the mediatism of the moment? I also ask you this: the honourable Member has spoken about the pact for justice. We know that the Justice Pact has received contributions from the various actors and entities operating in the judicial system. Do you think that the proposals contained in the justice pact make, inform and serve all of them to reform the justice that is imposed and what do we need? What measures does the NAP agree with and which ones it does not subscribe to? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u262	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u263	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement and the subject which brought the debate. Before going into more detail on the subject that brought us here, I wanted to leave two very brief introductory notes. First, to welcome you for your frankness in recognizing that the NAP has no solution to a large part of the serious problems that the justice system is going through, because I believe that it is this frankness that we must start to face the serious problems. In the face of the difficulties that the honourable Member has identified, she also wanted to leave you another message: don't give up! Don't give up, because that's not the case, nor is that how we get somewhere. Since 2007 the PCP has been fighting for the criminalization of unjustified enrichment. We haven't made it yet, but that's not why we gave up. Even last week we presented a project again for the discussion to begin. We must not give up this fight, because the issues of access to justice and the issues of the realization of justice are crucial for any society, being decisive, above all, for those who need to take advantage of justice to ensure respect for the exercise of their rights. That was a relatively distant dimension of your speech, but I would like to ask a few questions about it. This is because justice is not only about combating crime and economic and financial crime in particular. On this matter we have already had the opportunity to hold several discussions, either about unjustified enrichment or about matters related to offshores, as well as about matters that have to do with the need for the improvement of legal and legal mechanisms and also the means by which the justice system has to combat crime, and I have not found so much discrepancy in the position that the NAP and the CFP have taken in each other's initiatives. Even so, Mrs Deputies, I would like to ask you some questions about the dimensions of the justice that you have not addressed. As far as labour justice is concerned, is the NAP in line with the criticism made by the CFP that it is necessary to ensure that workers have more effective, faster and more objective means to ensure respect for their rights and to guarantee their defence in access to justice?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u264	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u265	I will finish, Mr. President. As regards tax arbitration, does the NAP agree or disagree that the tax arbitration regime is a system of escape to justice, especially of privileges and benefits to large debtors? In conclusion, Mr President, in matters relating to families and minors, there is a need to deepen, improve the arrangements for monitoring processes for the promotion and protection of minors and for the empowerment of children and young people at risk. On these dimensions of justice I would also like to know the opinion of the NAP, thanking Mr President for his tolerance. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u266	In reply, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u267	Mr President, from now on I am very grateful for the questions that have been raised to me. Mrs Mónica Quintela, it is clear that reform of justice is not exhausted only from the mega-processes that have come to the public, but is an important dimension of the credibility and effectiveness of justice, because it has an impact on the lives of all people. The honourable Member referred to the dimension of the daily justice system. But we cannot forget that when we have a mega-process, such as Operation Marquis, which has taken more than seven years to have an accusation, this is symptomatic that something goes very wrong in justice in Portugal. It is clear, therefore, that there must be a reform. And we're not talking about deciding hot or law-making hot because it takes seven years to have an accusation, it's going to be late this House's role to revisit, for example, the deadlines for prescription, to revisit illicit enrichment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u268	The deadlines for investigation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u269	It is clear, therefore, that there is much more to be done in a structural way so that we can in some way contribute to having a faster, more effective and more adaptable justice to the complexity of new phenomena of crime. Justice must also be something in constant adaptation and change and not something stagnant, non-revisable. In addition to these mega-processes, she raised the issue of the justice pact. As a rule, we agree with the generality of the pact for justice, but there are matters to which, of course, the pact for justice does not answer. When we talk about access to law and justice, the NAP has already discussed and defended several times that it is essential to revisit the fee table, especially for those who need access to justice in a more vulnerable way. I am talking about the payment of lawyers' own fees, because we know that in more complex cases it makes no sense the current regime in force. Therefore, the covenant for justice does not exhaust all matters. This is in line with the question put by the PCP Member. To say that the NAP has no solutions, Mr. João Oliveira, does not correspond to what I said. The NAP does not know how our judicial operators have worked here with the few means at their disposal. He does not also know how, since the pact for justice in the drawer, there is still a daily herculeum effort of many of our operators, of many of our researchers, who continue to do their work and try to keep the pillar of justice in operation, an essential pillar for our rule of law. Only that, there is, the principle of separation of powers must operate. But in order for it to operate, it is essential that it is not the political power to deny the means that the judicial operator lacks in order to be able to effect this same pillar. With regard to the specific question of labour justice, the NAP is next to the idea of fighting for more effective labour justice. I give you a very specific example: the fact that a worker who wants to challenge dismissal does not receive his compensation does not make any sense, taking into account the maturity of the proceedings themselves. This is because, as we know, it makes no sense for a person to remain in a state of unemployment and does not even have the possibility to enjoy at least part of the compensation so that he can then face the court proceedings before him to challenge dismissal. This is, unfortunately, one of many other examples in which it is absolutely essential to revisit the labour law system, particularly in what is the right to challenge redundancies. Just to conclude, because I have already exceeded the time available, there are many problems not only with regard to tax arbitration, but also with regard to arbitration itself, especially when it is the State involved in arbitration itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u270	For a political declaration, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There has never been a year like 2020. Never so many Portuguese people died in a single year. It was more than 123 000 people who left us in 2020, 12 000 people above the average of the last five years, and COVID only explains a little more than half. The Portuguese have never impoverished so much in a single year. The gross domestic product fell 7, 6 % by 2020. It is a fall of about EUR 15 800 million in one year, a value equal to the five years of the « bazouca ». There has never been so much human suffering in a single year. In this regard there are not so many numbers, it is true, but that is not why fear, anxiety, depression, or other mental health disorders have been reduced by thousands of Portuguese. But if 2020 was bad, 2021 started worse. There were more deaths per COVID in the first 110 days of this year than in the whole year 2020. The estimated breakdown of GDP in the first quarter is around 6 %. The problems of mental health, the delay in learning of the younger and the hopelessness of the future grow and accumulate. But that's not all. The profound damage that the pandemic and the mismanagement of this government have caused in the country's economic and social fabric is still not visible. The end of the credit moratoriums and extraordinary support will nude the true dimension of the recovery task that Portugal has ahead. A little everywhere we find legitimate concerns about the future. It is now, when we begin recovery, that we need hope, a hope based on a vision of society and economy different from that we have had decades ago and which is responsible for our stagnation. From this PS government, manipulated in the web of its own interests and structurally having any change that would endanger its hegemony, no one expects anything, much less reason for hope. But the Liberal Initiative means clearly to the Portuguese, here and now, that there are reasons for hope. Overpassed as the worst phase of the pandemic, there are reasons to believe in a better future. This better future for today and for future generations is within our reach if we know how to take advantage of the opportunities that this moment also contains and if we are willing to embrace the change that new times require. The opportunities are there, even if hidden by concern about the pandemic and the devastation of the crisis, and we cannot waste them. Someone who is wise once said that opportunities are never lost: if we are not, someone will take advantage of them. this time, we can take advantage of the opportunity, perhaps unique and unrepeatable, to overcome many of the structural barriers and disadvantages that have limited us as a country for decades. The digitization and reconfiguration of logistic chains can represent the end of the disadvantage of peripheral beings in geographical terms. The increase in intellectual and intangible components in value chains can represent the end of the disadvantage of being poor in natural resources. The ability we have to retain and attract talent can represent the end of the disadvantage of terms we have historically, and less and less now, deficiencies in qualifications. And the ability we have to attract investment, national and foreign, can represent the end of the disadvantage of terms, for too long, decapitalized companies and, as such, unable to take advantage of this unique opportunity that we are talking about here. in this new world that the pandemic has come to reveal, Portugal can and should have more ambition, can gain scale in several domains and thus create opportunities for young people to get up in life to work in Portugal. We believe this is possible. Unfortunately, of course it will not be possible with a PS government, because if it were the Recovery and Resilience Plan it had not been designed as it was. As it is, it is clear that recovery is for the state and resilience is that of citizens and private companies will need well. Well, they'll need it because you're the poor relative of the plan. The government has noticed the mistake of the initial plan and now tries to juggle with the accounts and present EUR 5000 million, almost twice the previous version and still less than a third of the total, aimed at the private sector. But when you see the detail and you exclude what will be invested to comply with rules that there were not, what will have no impact on productivity and what will have impact from here only two or three generations, only two parcels remain that reveal the PS throughout its statistical splendour. First, measures remain to reduce a number of context costs in justice, social security and the relationship between citizens and the state, all of which are important, but in which the PS forgets to move in the cost of context greater and more important than all: taxes. The state stirs in everything but what touches it in his pocket. Secondly, business capitalisation measures remain fundamental so that they can take advantage of opportunities. They're handing over to whom? to the already famous Banco de Fomento, such that it should be working for more than a year and whose competence to stimulate, analyze, select and monitor investment projects that are intended innovative is basically null. Thirdly, we are still going to see if the Transparency Portal, approved here in the Assembly of the Republic on our proposal, will have the characteristics that we said were essential to avoid sympathy and incompetence. If not, we will be from here a few years ago lamenting another accumulated public debt mountain to invest in projects without return, as Prof. Costa and Silva himself warned. If that is not the case, let us, in practice, lose this opportunity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal can in fact aspire to a better future, provided, as I have already said, we know how to take advantage of the unique opportunity that this moment represents and how to embrace the change that new times require. And this change can start by making Portugal a more liberal country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u272	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the Bureau records two entries for requests for clarification, the PSD and PS. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u273	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u274	All right. I then give the floor to Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group to make the first request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u275	I greet Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Liberal Initiative, in the person of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, on the subject of debate, the PRR, a matter of the utmost importance, of the greatest opportunity and of great concern to the PSD and to the Portuguese. The PRR — Recovery and Resilience Plan, version 2 February 2021, referred to : « In view of the serious impacts of the pandemic on European economies, a strategic Community instrument was created to mitigate the economic and social impact of the crisis ». Therefore I say that the PRR continues to be a crisis response programme on paper, as in version 1, October 2020, and version 3, April 2021. But where is the execution? So let us see the speeches: it was in the summer of 2020 ; it was to be in the beginning of 2021 ; now it is spoken in the summer of 2021. The question we have to ask is whether it will still be in 2021 that we will be implementing the PRR. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, tourism and related activities — restaurants, hotels and commerce — sectors highly penalized by the current economic and social crisis should be highlighted in the PRR concerns. But they are not, above all, referred to the digital and ecological transition, and very little to a sector representing 12 % of GDP and 10 % of employment, determining Portugal's economic and social recovery, in a country where State support remains and has fallen short of European practice, in a country that needs, and much more than others, European funds. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would like to ask you two questions at the moment: do you or do you not agree with this vision? Does the PRR's response and support to the problems of tourism, restaurants and trade are far from the needs of these and the country, especially in border areas? He could almost anticipate his response, given his relevant experience in Tourism of Portugal, but I wait. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u276	To make a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo's choice of the subject, and I want to say that we agree that we need hope, only we do not agree with the hope of a liberal future, because he will certainly not be a good future for anyone. Since the Social Democratic Party here has come to talk about the delay, being a European issue and given that the President of the European Commission and the majority of European governments are of the PSD's political family, we appeal to the PSD, also with its political family, to call for governments to go quickly, even because the Portuguese Government is of the governments that have the most work done in relation to the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Therefore, there is certainly a lot of responsibility in the PSD's political family for the PRR to be late. Regarding the issues we put here, it is also important to realize that the PRR can never be seen alone. We need to look at the PRR in addition to the plan of the new Community Support Framework — and we are talking about EUR 33, EUR 6 billion, a value substantially higher than the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is EUR 13, EUR 9 billion, but also together with the EUR 11, EUR 2 billion that are still missing from Portugal 2020. Portugal was very late in several matters and the business area, which they talk about here so much, is the point where it is later. But we must also consider the EUR 2000 million from REACH, which is really what has enabled companies to respond to, which is what the famous APOIAR Programme is financing, and we are talking about more than EUR 900 million in depth lost to companies. For companies, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, 4, 9 billion euros is the value allocated. Is this a substantially so low value compared to other Community support frameworks? Compare with other Community support frameworks. And why does Mr. Deputy disagree? Discretion of digital transition? Disagreement of resilience? Disagreement of territorial cohesion?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u278	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u279	Or does it also disagree with the investment in the National Health Service? Well, I know you prefer private health, but is that what you disagree with, sir? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u280	In response to requests for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u281	Mr President, I am very grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Jorge Mendes and Mr Hugo Costa. Mr. Jorge Mendes brings here a very interesting question about the tourism sector and, before that, he spoke of the difficulties in predicting the real schedule of implementation of the PRR, already several times deferred, some because of Brussels, others because of the Portuguese Government. But I dare say, Mr President, that more than the timetable for implementation, in particular, I am concerned that, on the day when it starts, the structure planned to follow this PRR is clearly insufficient. Above all, as Mr Hugo Costa says, and very well, it is not only the PRR that is in question. The other Community support frameworks — what is to come and what is to be done — and the REACH, all together, require more than triple processing, analysis and selection capacity than the previous Community frameworks we are used to. There is no plan to strengthen the mechanism of analysis and selection of projects and, however, we are expecting them to run better than what has been a history, say, not very happy, of the application of structural funds in the past. In particular with regard to the tourism sector, a sector that tells me, as you said, whether the support is sufficient. No, they're not. Why? And also responding in part to what Mr Hugo Costa asked me, is not that I disagree with the energy or digital transition, what I think is that this cannot be imposed from top to bottom, because countries like Portugal and sectors such as tourism were the basis that were made and not by determining the government or by a centralized plan. This is not a Soviet—yet! — and if it depends on us, it will not be so soon. Therefore, tourism has been fundamental to the recovery of the Portuguese economy and will continue to be so if it is given the importance it deserves, and this cannot be directed from top to bottom. I just say that in the specific case of tourism there will be much more to be needed than money, there will be a need for an intelligent view of how to recover tourism. the other day I asked Mr. Minister of Economy what was the integration of tourism recovery plans with vaccination plans and he said to me: "I have nothing to do with this! », when everyone knows that the main criterion for travelling to any country during this summer will be the existence of a high or low rate of vaccination. It's this kind of vision and horizontal vision of the problems you've missed. Finally, I do not resist, Mr President, to say the following: Mr Hugo Costa says that the liberal future would be bad. Mr. Deputies, I trust you more than that. I recognise your ability to know that your merit, in a truly liberal society, would lead you far further away and to much more interesting situations than the PS parliamentary board. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u282	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us move on to the next point, the assessment of Petition No 38 / XIV / 1. a (Afonso Maria Ribeiro Rosa Moreira Pires et al.) — Against works to close Lisbon. This seems to me to be more of a matter within the scope of a municipal assembly than in the Assembly of the Republic, but in any case, with inscriptions, they will be accepted. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u283	Mr President, when the petition has been admitted, it would make no sense for us not to welcome the petitioners and, of course, not to express ourselves with regard to all the concerns they have brought to the Assembly of the Republic. From that point on, the petition is relevant to the size of the City of Lisbon and, of course, could also be discussed at the City of Lisbon, but we must not fail to say that it is important to think not only about the conditions of inter-municipal but also national mobility. Therefore, the Assembly of the Republic also has a role in promoting, supporting and exercising its own powers which it then delegates to the authorities, taking some care of the concerns of the citizens. in this sense, this option of closure of the Lower Lisboa, which was quite controversial and which, of course, is also dated in this petition, does not cease to be a relevant concern. The need to reduce car traffic within the city of Lisbon itself is undeniable, whether by combating climate change or by improving air quality, which we well know costs the country, annually, about 7,000 premature deaths and about EUR 1000 million to the National Health Service more directly. Thus, we believe that the municipal executive should have made a better planning of the necessary articulation of the city with the different plans, including the plans of soft or pedestrian mobility, obviously without harming either the residents or the traders themselves, which is something that has not been happening. Public works, in particular those serving cities, should be clearly articulated, until, with money, it is important that this is spent on what it does, effectively, lacks the populations and that it is not wasted on megalomanian or utopian works that serve only the authorships themselves and do not serve their monks. On the other hand, I would like to welcome and, of course, follow the action of the petitioners, thanking them for bringing to the Assembly of the Republic a concern which, being from the city of Lisbon, is also a concern of which all and all of us must not be sidelined, as elected members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u284	You have the floor for the Greens, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, The Greens want to greet the more than 4000 petitioners who have signed the petition Against the works to close the Baixa de Lisboa, which is today the subject of discussion. Despite this issue being of municipal responsibility, it reminds us of some considerations about the development of cities, an idea that is often coupled with alleged arguments of sustainability and environmental protection. There are significant changes every day in a large city that should be studied and thought together with the population. The big cities are overburdened by individual vehicles, which travel them every day, driven by people who need to go to work, take their children to school, support family members, access to public services, in short, by people who need to move. Only an extended supply of public transport that meets the needs of those who live or work in city centres or who regularly access them can give answers to mobility issues. This option has to be accompanied by affordable prices, which we have taken steps in the right direction with the PART (Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport) which, by the immediate increase in demand, has easily dropped the argument that people prefer the individual car to public transport. The problem is that the decision of so many to choose for public transport was not accompanied by the reinforcement of subway, train, boats and even buses. And, after all, the choice is not of people, it is of political power that does not want to bet on an efficient network and at fair prices as an essential measure of mobility and as a measure of environmental protection and mitigation of climate change. It is also essential that essential public services are not fully concentrated, with the closure of schools, health units, public administration services, post offices, bank counters, culture and leisure structures, on the outskirts and in the rural world, which requires people to move to the centres. Cities should be living spaces, inhabited, with conditions for walking, cycling, with baby carts, with conditions that allow those with reduced mobility to move freely in the city where they live or choose to live. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are suspicious of cities that drive out those who have no money to pay exorbitant incomes, who cannot buy recent cars, even knowing that the number of new cars has been increasing considerably, and that they expel those who do not have a public transport response. It is necessary to break down architectural barriers so that the right to mobility can be a reality. It is necessary to ensure the mitigation of climate change, the search for a city without sound pollution, without air pollution, whose excess exacerbates health problems and environmental problems, without visual pollution, made together with the responses of the populations, so that the city is all and not only of those who can live there.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u286	Mr Alexandra Tavares de Moura, for the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you, of course, to the subscribers of the petition that we have examined and discussed today and which calls us for a much deeper reflection on what we want from the future of our cities. This petition seems to raise a simple discussion, whether street A or B closes or not, whether street A or B becomes unforgivable, but the essence of the discussion is not indeed this. Today, we discuss how we want the cities of the future, how we want our country to build the future of our children and our grandchildren. We know that in every 10 people worldwide, 9 breathes polluted air; we know that 7 million people die prematurely every year as a result of air pollution; we know that air pollution causes about 24% of deaths from cardiovascular diseases and 29% of lung cancer. It is estimated that in Portugal about 6000 people die because of the effects of fine particles and nitrogen dioxide. These are the data and that is why we have to rethink the development strategy of our cities, of the spaces where we live, of the spaces where we work, where we grow up and where we play. And how can this change be promoted? The city of Lisbon made an option: it chose to reduce emissions in one of the city's noble areas, it set as a goal to reduce 60 % of carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. The choice of the area is obviously not casual. They did so because this area has a good public transport coverage: two train lines, two metro lines, two river stations, fifteen Carris races, 10 taxi squares and more than 5000 parking spaces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u288	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u289	Lisbon is thus able to secure its obligation to build a more sustainable, environmentally safer and healthier space, with the obligation to hold public public transport, promoting its use and also ensuring its financial sustainability. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: this month in which we celebrate April, we also celebrate the strength of the local power. This celebration reminds us all that our Constitution, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, enshrines the authorities as representative bodies that aim to pursue the interests of their own populations, having the power to regulate themselves. For the PS Parliamentary Group, the local power is proximity, rehabilitation, valuing the public space as a space for all and as a space for all and is in this constitutional respect that we analyze this petition. Mr President, I conclude by saying that this plan complied with the procedures provided for in the public consultation, as was also mentioned by the petitioner at the time of his hearing at the Assembly of the Republic. This assurance gives us the guarantee that the path, which will naturally be refined by the authority, is the path of change with respect for the values of participatory democracy, thus giving everyone the opportunity to participate, to suggest changes, creating an environmentally healthier city for those who inhabit it and for those who visit it. We all know how important it is to maintain royalties in the right to housing and, of course, in the right to business, but we are sure that the rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic will be respected and not forgotten by the city of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u290	You have the floor, by the Left Block, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group welcomes the petitioners who brought the debate to this relevant issue, because it has to do with the organization of our cities, in particular the city of Lisbon, and mobility. It is important to say, as was mentioned at the time of the hearing of the petitioners, that the matter in question is solely dependent on the municipal decision, not having the competence of the Assembly of the Republic in the matter under discussion. It should also be noted that the project that gave rise to this petition ended up being suspended, not knowing so far the forecast of when it will proceed concretely. However, the petition brings to the debate important issues for the public space and for mobility. Lisbon is one of the most polluted European cities. Every day 380 000 cars enter Lisbon which release to the environment tons and tons of carbon dioxide that contribute to global warming. Promoting carbon neutrality is an urgent matter. We can't wait anymore! This requires a drastic reduction in the number of cars entering the city. Restrictions on motor traffic are necessary, people should be able to leave cars at home. We must move quickly with the creation of zero emission blocks, starting with consolidated residential areas that have a greater impact on pollution, such as the axis of the Freedom Avenue. But we agree with the petitioners that this objective will not be achieved without a greater and better supply of public transport. It is essential to promote people's confidence in public public transport and, to that end, it is essential to offer a service of quality, predictable, reliable and trendily free—we can start with the unemployed—which allows those who come from outside the city to make their trips and those who live in the city to travel knowing that, in any part of the city, there is public transport offer and that this information is reliable. This also helps to reduce the inequality of supply of transport in the poorest areas. None of this can be done without a very robust public investment and a change in the paradigm of the planning of the territory in cities, in order to make them more friends of people and public transport. The city must be thought of a proximity logic, in which the necessary travels are accessible a few minutes away. More affordable housing in the city is also a way to reduce travel between the house and work, which today are responsible for the brutal entry of individual transport vehicles into the city. Areas that cease to have motor traffic must give rise to public spaces, green areas and local trade areas. This measure protects public health, the environment and returns public space to people and social activities. The Left Block, both in Parliament and in the city of Lisbon, is committed to monitoring these processes and to deepening reflection on them so that there are long-term solutions that reduce the pollution resulting from the entry of cars into the city.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u292	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Morais Soares. I would like to congratulate you, as you have not yet presided at any session with your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u293	Mr. President, thank you very much. I begin by complimenting the 4746 petitioners of this initiative, especially the person of the first subscriber, Afonso Maria Pires. This is a petition against works to close the Baixa de Lisboa. Mr President, the works to close the transit to Lower Lisbon arise in a purely socialist propaganda that the President of the Chamber of Lisbon presented to the social communication and only to the social communication. Let's see, then. On 31 January 2020 it was announced that the project ZER ABC ( Reduced Emissions Zone of Baixa Chiado Avenue ) provided for a number of relevant interventions in the public space, which resulted in changes to the motor and pedestrian traffic, parking and public transport, in areas of the Avenue of Liberty, Baixa Chiado, Almirante Reis Avenue and adjacent areas. At the present time, according to the report, the phased implementation of the project was planned and, in May, an information and awareness campaign would be launched in relation to new traffic and parking rules, as well as the process of registering and allocating statistics to residents and authorisations. In June, the new rules would enter into force in a pedagogical manner and in July, the effective supervision by the Municipal Police and the Public Security Police would be initiated. Later on 3 June 2020, in the middle of the pandemic, President Fernando Medina told the social communication that the projects Lisboa Ciclable and The Street is Yours, which include several measures that were already part of the ZER ABC project would not be cancelled but, yes, rescheduled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these projects have not formally been presented at a chamber meeting in the City Council, as it has not been voted on, nor has any proposal in this regard been put forward, demonstrating total disrespect for democratic and legitimately elected bodies. In the name of propaganda and the need to show work, the proposal was announced as if it was defined, decided, when, in reality, neither presented nor, much less, discussed was and neither the residents nor the traders were heard. The CDS, Mr President, is in favour of the development of inclusive cities, the various means of mobility, the friendly cities of the environment, the reduction of carbon footprint, but in Lower Lisbon, the planning and mobility strategy, as has already happened in other parts of the city, have in fact not succeeded in any reasonable alternatives that allow the choice or incentive of collective and individual mobility means that are more environmentally friendly. Public transport in Lisbon is unfortunately not working, delays are constant.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u294	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u295	I'm done now, Mr. President. in this case, in particular, there is still an effective proposal that has settled in technical or environmental studies that support these options, much less in hearings or opinions about the model for this area of the city.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u296	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u297	I shall now finish, Mr President, by saying that it is a model that conditions the families that reside there, that conditions the small trade, still present in this historic area of the city, and seeks to make this area of Lisbon a city for only a few.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u298	Mr, this is not the City Assembly of Lisbon, it is the Assembly of the Republic. As much as it costs, because there are local elections within a few months, I would ask the committees to deal with the petitions to be very vigilant about this, because it makes no sense for the Assembly of the Republic to be discussing what is happening on street A or on avenue B, this or that city. Lisbon has no different status from the rest of the cities of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u299	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u300	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Filipa Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet, above all, the petitioners who are here today with the petition against the works to close the Baixa de Lisboa. It is a fact that this is a responsibility of the authority, but above all, we thank you very much for your struggle and your commitment to be here today because you bring here a very interesting problem and you have to get into the head of everyone. How can one catch a good principle, which is to end pollution, and execute it so badly? How do you do that? Oh, my God! This has to get into the head and it is useful for everyone, not only for Fernando Medina : the cities of the 21st century, the greenest, most digital cities, only they are made with people, they are not made against people! That is the basic principle the PSD has defended and will continue to defend. What does that mean — not just talk, I have followed this case, as you know — I repeat, what does that mean? The project is done and presented to people and they call it public participation, but this is not public participation! Public participation is when the program is built, total immersion, from the first minute, with the people, with the merchants, with the residents, with the people who work. Before doing the project, before going to the stretcher, you talk to the people and build, with the people, the city program. That's how you make a city, that's how you make public space. What was done here was to import models from other places and apply them without knowing who was there. It's like I bought a fact away in Asia, and I thought I was going to serve the person who lives there. Obviously, it doesn't work, it doesn't work. We have to listen, listen, hear merchants, residents and the people who work at Baixa. Above all, we're talking here from Baixa, from our Baixa Pombalina! The Lower Pombalina that was the first green city, the first public garden, the first plan of detail thought, an incredible heritage, a feature of modernity in which we could be in front of everyone else. If they really want to preserve Baixa, why have they dropped the candidature of Baixa the world heritage of UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization )? Why did they drop that candidacy? It was an innovative candidacy and understood Baixa as a living heritage, as it was designed and thought, that is, as a living heritage where people live, have their trades, their homes and will work. How do you do that? It has to be with people, we agree with that, you have to realize the needs, but what happens in Admiral Reis is incomprehensible! So I'm saying again that all this has to be done with the people who will contribute, will really help us to dignify Lower Pombalina, the Avenue of Liberty and, also, to continue with the pioneer thought of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, of whom we truly assume the inheritance. And I call you to this discussion because you drew the Green Plan of Lisbon, imagining it - as a green city in a whole - already in 1967 I was writing about the problems of the green city - and obviously also because you were founder, with Francisco Sá Carneiro, of the Democratic Alliance, and you were Minister of Francisco Balsamão. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u302	Here is the connection to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u303	We took his speech in its entire integrity, for the simple reason that it was what he said: the environment, the culture, the relationship of people with the city is made with them and not against them. That's how it's done! And that's how Carlos Moedas has spoken every day... [[Protests from PS and PCP Members.]] ...and that is how he will continue to speak until the day that Lisbon has effectively new times, new opportunities and is again placed on the footing in which it has been.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u304	Cat hidden with an outside ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u305	Something interesting, sirs. Members : Ursula von der Leyen calls on us to think of a new European Bauhaus, a city where culture, science, progress and economy are together, in the name of a greener and more sustainable world. What I liked was that we all together told Ursula von der Leyen that Lower Pombalina was the first European Bauhaus, centuries before it was invented in the early twentieth century and exterminated by Adolf Hitler's national-socialism. Lower Pombalina was the first European Bauhaus and we will continue to fight for it to exist and be saved in all its dignity and modernity as the first green city of Portugal and as a city designed with people and not against them! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u306	Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u307	Woe to the Coeds who don't pay for the speech! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u308	I would ask you to give the speaker an opportunity to pray.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u309	Orator! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, whom we have had the opportunity to hear in the proceedings of this petition and who are protesting against the implementation by the City Council of Lisbon, as it has been said, of areas of reduced emission, with the intention of banning traffic in certain areas of the city. However, the Authority has already announced the postponement of this intention, taking into account the consequences of the pandemic, which means that the discussion on this measure continues, but being a question concerning local power is there that the CFP has stated its position.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u311	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u312	We understand that initiatives such as the implementation of prohibited or restricted transit zones cannot be taken without considering their framework in the mobility policy of cities, the guarantees of accessibility for residents and trade, nor should they be seen as miraculous panaceas for air quality problems. It is also important to say that the city should be looked at as a whole and not only restricting the issues of air quality to the city center. There are aspects mentioned in the text of the petition which refer to more general issues and which are accessible within the framework of the Assembly of the Republic. Of course, I quote the petitioners when they say that «the public transport network is miserable, not comprehensive, full of delays and constantly failings in numerous points of the city ». That is, in fact, the reality and the problem is when it is intended to impose prohibitive measures without the corresponding investment in the expansion and improvement of public transport, as a way to reduce the number of cars in the city. Given the positive results of measures such as the implementation of social passes at reduced prices or the PART, as the PCP fought for years, often alone, and that was the most contributed to reducing the number of cars in cities, it is necessary to go further.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u313	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u314	For this reason, the CFP presented in the State Budget for 2021 a proposal to extend the freeness of public public transport, starting with children and young people up to 18 years old, and the reduction of 50% of the price to more than 65 years old, setting as a goal the freeness of collective transport, a measure that would contribute, more than any other, in Lisbon and throughout the country, to the reduction of emissions and air pollution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u315	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u316	This proposal, the only one put forward in this regard, was rejected with the votes against the PS and the Liberal Initiative and the abstention of the PSD and the CDS-PP. What we can tell the petitioners is that we will continue to intervene, in the Assembly of the Republic and also in the authorities, by transport policies that encourage the use of public transport, measures with far more comprehensive results than the prohibitive logics of solutions to the problems raised by residents and traders to which this petition has given expression. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u317	We will enter the fourth point of our agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 638 / XIII / 4. a ( SITAVA — Aviation Workers'Union and Airports ) — They request that the professions of scale care operators and scale assistance traffic technicians be qualified as rapid wear, together with Resolution Projects Nos 867 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By regulation of scale care operators and assistance traffic technicians on scale and 1076 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — Definition and regulation of a specific employment and retirement scheme for scale and technical assistance operators on scale. For the presentation of these projects, you will have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of BE, and then Mr Bruno Dias of the PCP. Do the favor, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, we wish to greet SITAVA ( Aviation Workers'Union and Airports ), the first petitioner and the aviation and airport sector union, the driving force behind this important petition. Although we speak of a sector that is currently very affected by the pandemic crisis, the petition brings here alerts that come from a long time ago and that deserve our follow-up. in this petition Parliament is requested that the professions of scale care operator and of scale care traffic technician be considered as fast wear professions, three essential reasons being invoked: pressure and stress, emotional and / or physical wear and working conditions. It refers to the need for extreme levels of concentration, considering the strict performance of a set of tasks without which an airport cannot normally operate. In addition, we talk about professions that are associated with the wear of shiftwork, since these workers can start the provision of work from three in the morning, having weeks in which they end this performance after midnight, in shifts with an amplitude that can reach 24 hours, seven days a week and 365 days a year, with a level of exposure to noise and pollution far above the average. In addition, professional activity is performed abroad and is therefore subject to an unusual set of climatic adversities in general professions. Here, shiftwork, associated with professions of a fairly high physical and mental requirement, has proved to be harmful for the health of workers. In addition, this House of the Republic has been discussing this same debate and proposals have emerged to help meet the needs of those working with this regime, and the system of rapid wear and tear is one of the ways to protect workers. The Left Block understands, and understands, that it is necessary to ensure that workers develop their activities in health and safety conditions at work and that there is a labour regulation of the activity that guarantees it. This regulation goes through a strengthening of collective bargaining, instead of ensuring more protective labour legislation for workers, in particular those working on shifts, scales, night shifts and in exhausting professions. This is what we have proposed over the years in Parliament, in successive initiatives, with a view to amending the Labour Code and social security legislation. Without prejudice to this structural change that we have been proposing, and for which we continue to beat ourselves, we believe that the government must start to act in order to protect workers from the wear and tear caused by this profession in particular. It should be noted that we continue without any news about the working group that the Government has created and that it would study the subject of rapid wear and tear professions. We are waiting for news for a few years and we say again: it is not acceptable to continue to wait indefinitely for this and other professions for a study and regulation that never arrives, because they are always waiting for another working group, for another discussion. In order to avoid the risk of long-term consequences, these, which have already been widely studied, need to be taken into account in terms of shiftwork and the wear-out of professions, leave thousands and thousands of workers in undeserving conditions. That is the objective of the draft resolution of the Left Block which accompanies this petition and which we hope can be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u319	To present draft resolution No 1076 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u320	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the side of the CFP, our first word is warm and supportive greeting to all labourers or on scale assistance at national airports. We welcome the tireless struggle of labour force workers to defend jobs, the future of their own company and service, to defend rights and working conditions in the various companies in the sector. And we naturally welcome SITAVA — Aviation Workers'Union and Airports, which for years has been addressing the problems of the workers in this sector and which in this case brings problems and working conditions to the Assembly of the Republic, in particular those on-scale assistance operators ( OEAs ) and those on-scale assistance traffic technicians ( TTAEs ). This was the case at the initiative of SITAVA, the petition now under discussion, with 5400 signatures, which motivated this agenda along with the Draft Resolution No 1076 / XIV / 2. the, which the PCP now presents. over the years, a situation of increasing wear and wear has been recognized and increasingly difficult for workers in this sector. And yet, with the emergence of the pandemic crisis and its economic consequences, the workers in the sector have been confronted with the unacceptable attack on rights. In the context of the work that the Assembly has developed on this request by SITAVA, documents have been received from companies in the sector, where they are the companies themselves—and we speak in particular of the case of Groundforce and Portway—to affirm and to transmit to the Assembly of the Republic that, and I quote the pronouncement of Groundforce in relation to the OAE and TTAE, "in addition to the physical effort in carrying out their daily tasks, are subject to strong pressure that gives rise to high peaks of anxiety and stress, emotional and physical wear, as well as to the freeing of states of widespread feeling of fatigue and persistent weakness, which worsens over time, contributing to the emergence of occupational diseases and the consequent degradation of the quality of life and mental and mental health". On the other hand from Portway, the testimony given to the Assembly goes by the following: « Note that the appearance of low cost airlines has enhanced the appearance of musculoskeletal lesions, which adds a high probability of accidents at work and occupational diseases. It is said that the fact that the rotations are very short — between 30 and 45 minutes — is associated with the stress of the speed imposed by the low cost, to which the thermal environment — extreme heat on the plate — and the lack of rest causes states of fatigue with extreme wear, and may be the cause of several accidents». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to say that fatigue kills, but exploitation also. And it is often in over-exploration and unacceptable working conditions that are imposed on these workers, that the companies themselves have witnessed, that is the origin, so many and so many times, of the problems mentioned here. The CFP, over the years, has been monitoring the struggle of labour force workers, from the outset, with regard to the process of privatization, precariousization, degradation of working conditions in the sector, which have been accentuated by the use of temporary and outsourcing enterprises and the conclusion of precarious links to permanent needs, resulting in a deterioration of the working conditions of these professionals, which cannot be disconnected from the evolution of both the sector and the Portuguese Air Transport, either in ANA ( Airports and Air Navigation ), or in the Groundforce, or in Portway. What the CFP proposes to this House is that measures be taken for the definition and regulation of a specific labour and retirement scheme for workers on a scale and to the professionals on a scale of assistance traffic, considering the special risk and penosity in which they perform the work to which they are restricted, in conjunction with the workers' representative organisations, without prejudice to more favourable provisions provided for in collective labour regulation instruments. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unacceptable that the process is so enduring and that the Government and the State authorities are finding it difficult to respond to this broader and cross-cutting problem of the issue of rapid wear. But it is also politically significant and truly regrettable that the Government has not even been worthy of responding to the demands of the Assembly of the Republic regarding the petition now under discussion. We must also note worrying signs of the government's response, which is slow to give and which must be given as soon as possible. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u321	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, addressing our compliments to them that they have mobilized themselves to ensure the social protection of workers operating on a scale, through their recognition as a rapidly worn-out profession. We also use it to show our solidarity with the difficult situation in which the current health crisis has put these workers. This has already been mentioned in both the TAP and the Groundforce process, which has merited the attention of this House and, for that reason, I want to leave a word here to all workers. With regard to the substance of this petition, we must not fail to mention that the workers operating on scale are professionals subject to very heavy working conditions which, among other things, include abnormal exposure to noise, times that often start early in the morning, shifts that reach the duration of 24 hours followed, work rhythms necessarily fast, short times of rotation on the ground and the transport of about 15 tons of cargo per day. They are also subject to sudden climate change, as they often see their shift starting in the spring and ending, elsewhere in the world, in the autumn, all on the same day and having, at the same time, to watch more than 600 passengers. All of this has consequences in the life and health of these people. The reconciliation of professional life with family life becomes a mirage and can even be said that family life becomes an eternal priority for these professionals. at the level of health, these professionals have numerous problems ranging from hearing problems to problems in the lumbar zone or mental health problems. It is therefore more than fair that this profession is to be qualified as a rapid wear. In fact, this is not a new discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. We will therefore vote in favour of the two draft resolutions under discussion, but we will not fail to appeal that, contrary to what happened in previous times, progress be made in this area. The NAP therefore recalls that on this occasion there are other professions that deserve to be equally qualified as a rapid weariness, a debate which has also happened in this House. This is the case of nurses, doctors, teachers, portfolios, security professionals and security services or call center workers, and it is imperative that there is a broader vision and consensus and that the professions considered to be of rapid wear. None of these professionals can be harmed in relation to others, under the penalty of creating new inequalities. For this reason, on two occasions, the NAP has already proposed that a working group should be formed this year, identifying all the professions of rapid wear and granting them the inherent rights of that same recognition, so that the operational workers of the care on scale and other professionals would finally appreciate and acknowledge their efforts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u323	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy,
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u324	I'm done now, Mr. President. If this did not happen, it was because this proposal was dubbed twice with the vote against the PS and the abstentions from PSD, PCP and ENP, with BE and IL voting in favour in one case and otherwise abstaining. But the NAP will continue to defend this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u325	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Germana Rocha has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by welcoming, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the more than 5000 subscribers to the petition in question, who ask that the professions of large-scale assistance operators and those on-scale assistance traffic technicians be considered to be a rapid weariness, while meeting here to heighten this form of civic participation which certainly contributes to the deepening of our democracy. in this sense, the petitioners identify a set of factors and working conditions that consider determinants for the allocation of this qualification to the development of their professions. This has been the subject of ongoing discussions in this Parliament with regard to the various professionals who have applied for this status. For that reason, it was already more than government time, once and for all, from promises to acts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u328	...for good intentions is the full hell,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u329	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u330	... implementing the definition of clear and objective rules that can determine, in a fair and rigorous manner, which professions fall within this regime. The PSD believes that this is a sensitive matter that needs to be duly analysed and studied with fair and equitable criteria, applicable to different professions, and that it cannot be treated with mere rough and punctual measures, and may thus be creating situations of injustice and inequality for its workers. The pandemic we live in has shown multiple weaknesses, including those existing in the working conditions in which several professions are developed. But in spite of this, the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, as regards the claim of these workers, once again, does not respond by disrespecting Parliament, but, above all, these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u331	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u332	It is therefore necessary for the Government to give a quick and effective response not only to this situation but also to all the others already presented, analysing the conditions in which each one is developed through strict and never arbitrary analysis, thus determining whether or not these professions should be classified as rapid wear. In this regard, the parties on the left rejected the creation of a working group for this purpose about a year ago, claiming to the Socialist Party that the Government would already be dealing with the necessary framework for this matter, but what is certain is that, until now, nothing has resolved, as indeed, we have been used to it for a long time, not only in this and other matters. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to view each profession as it is, with its own characteristics, specificities and difficulties, to treat equally what is equal and differently what is different, establishing rules and objective criteria, so that all situations are properly and fairly framed for the workers concerned, and for this reason it is necessary for each of the actors to assume their responsibilities. All professions deserve our respect and should be treated in the light of their specificities and scopes and natural consequences with regard to their duties, but also with regard to their rights at the level of age and the conditions of their reform which is at stake here. But of course it will do nothing to do so if the State services, which are competent for this purpose, continue, in an unacceptable way, to delay the processing of these reforms and pensions and not treat workers with the transparency, seriousness and respect they deserve, complying with the time limits laid down by applicable legislation, so as not to harm citizens in their most basic rights. It is therefore up to the Government to stop pushing the belly and decide, but to decide in accordance with the interests of workers and Portuguese, as it is up to it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u333	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 5400 subscribers of the petition and, in a particular way, the first subscriber, SITAVA. Unfortunately, Mr President, we have to drag a lamentable situation in this Parliament in relation to the treatment of such issues as the one that brings us, which has to do with the rapid wear and special conditions that must be applied to certain professions, as a result of this characteristic of the rapid wear of these professions. This is indisputably the case of large-scale assistance operators and large-scale assistance traffic technicians and, in particular, the question of shifts, which in fact promotes higher wear. We therefore understand that, without unlocking this situation, it is impossible to solve the problems of each of these professions. Why? Because it is not possible, Mr President, to maintain consistency by dealing with each of these cases in a gross way. If we deal with each of these cases in an autonomous legislative process, sooner or later, Mr President, we will be giving some professions what we are not giving to others. on the contrary, and much worse, we will be taking to some professions what we are giving to others, in such cases there is a relative injustice. Mr President, what is the only way, in the view of the CDS, to deal with this matter? It is, in fact, to have a hat, a general legislation, a table indicating how each of the professions should be assessed, so that they have access to special conditions, which may be in anticipation of the retirement age, the increase of the retirement age, the rest days; it may be a series of conditions that relate to the specificity of each of the professions. That is why, in the CDS, we do not just say this just to be nice to the petitioners who bring us these questions. The CDS presented a project to the Government, Mr President, because it is through the Government and the information that only the Ministry of Labour has on each of these professions that a legislative process should be initiated on this issue. It is very difficult for Parliament to take the initiative without this information from the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, which simply does not respond. Therefore, at this moment, in defence of these workers, it is appropriate to once again require the PS to comply with what he said because, if he does not do so, he is again leaving these workers behind. About a year ago, the Socialist Party said that it did not follow the CDS initiative, which proposed the establishment of a working group for the regulation of the rapidly worn-out professions, not for discontinuing the proposal, not for not finding it worthy, but for considering that, in May 2020 — in May 2020! — the government already had a process similar to the one proposed by the CDS, so it would be an absolute redundancy. It is regrettable, Mr President, that, after a year, everything was the same. And don't come to say that now it's the pandemic, the COVID-19, which isn't for everything, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. It is unacceptable that they leave them behind, but even worse if they leave them behind this perverse way, falling initiatives...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u335	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u336	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is unacceptable that they leave them behind in this perverse way, leading other parties' initiatives, who try to solve the problem, saying that they are doing something in this direction and not doing anything strictly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u337	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are now discussing, as well as the Aviation and Airport Workers' Union, SITAVA, who promoted and dynamized it. Through this petition, petitioners are asked that the professions of scale care operators and those of scale care traffic technicians be qualified as rapid wear. And, to this end, in the text that gives body to petition, justify this claim, whose fundamentals basically lie in three dimensions: the pressure and stress that the exercise of their functions causes, the emotional and physical wear that these functions require and the working conditions themselves. In fact, as the petitioners point out, these workers, in carrying out their daily work, are subject to the strict fulfilment of a set of tasks that relate to the times of service contracted between the service providers and the airlines whose rotation times on the ground are increasingly shorter, which, moreover, is recognised by the companies themselves in the sector. In fact, as can be seen in the opinions which have been given, in the context of the analysis of this petition — which has already been mentioned today — both Groundforce and Portway have made it very clear that these workers, in addition to the physical effort in carrying out their daily tasks, are subject to strong pressure, which gives rise to high peaks of anxiety and stress, emotional and physical wear, as well as to the exhalation of states of generalized feeling of fatigue and persistent weakness, which is worsening over time, enhancing the emergence of professional diseases and the consequent degradation of quality of life and psychic health. They also say that the appearance of low-cost airlines has enhanced the appearance of musculoskeletal lesions, which adds a high probability of accidents at work and occupational diseases. With regard to working conditions, it should be stressed that both scale care operators and scale care traffic technicians, in most cases, perform their work abroad, therefore subject to a set of climatic difficulties which are not common in the generality of the professions. And they often face sudden changes in climate conditions, this in addition to the weight of baggage, cargo and mail that the service operators on scale have to endure during their day of work, with visible reflections at the level of the column. It is therefore not surprising that a significant percentage of these professionals suffer from physical problems, particularly in the lumbar area. For all this, the Greens fully monitor the concerns and also the purposes of the petitioners, and will therefore vote in favour of the two legislative initiatives accompanying this petition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u339	Mr Fernando José, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u340	Mr. President and Mr. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners and the initiatives of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block on the professions of scale care operators, the so-called OAE, and the scale assistance traffic technicians, the TTAE. I can also welcome SITAVA, who has stimulated this petition and has, over the years, shown, with the resilient and committed work of its trade union leaders and delegates, a fundamental role in the defence of labour workers in Portugal, always in the search for solutions to problems, always in the search of consensus reflecting measures that dignified the work of these professionals and with a relevant role, it refers to the promotion of collective bargaining in the sector. The objectives of SITAVA and other trade unions representative of the labourers in Portugal converge with the commitments and action of the Socialist Party and the parties to their left in the need to, together, continue to do even more and better for the living conditions of these professionals, to combat precariousness in the handling sector and to density the agenda for decent work. This petition, however, closes two dimensions that urgently need to be analyzed and addressed with pragmatism and assertivity. The first is, of course, the penosity of work and, of course, the conditions of work. Pressure and stress, but also the emotional and physical wear caused by the performance of the activity on board with adverse climatic conditions, but not only, the organization of work and rest, the precariousness and the faster rotation of airline scales are themes that must be deepened in collective bargaining and working together with the Government, operators, workers, ANA — Airports of Portugal, ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), ACT ( Labour Conditions Authority) and DGRT ( Employment and Labour Relations Directorate-General ). This is indeed a work already done in the past, with good results, and which has found answers to some questions that were dragged in time without a solution, questions that are not new, issues that already existed — no doubt! — in the time of the PSD government / CDS,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u341	... that not at that time have been able to resolve and for which, in the opposition, they are now able to find miraculous solutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u342	A dialogue platform is needed. It is perhaps necessary to reopen this process and to keep this working group regularly active, as a means of solving some problems that continue to differ and that in no way have contributed to the improvement of the working conditions of the professionals in the sector and thus minimize the penosity of the work, a work of extreme importance to the economy of our country. But in another dimension, it should be reiterated that the Socialist Party understands the claims and concerns of these professionals, who aim to qualify their profession as a rapid weariness, as it understands the claims and concerns of many other professionals, such as nurses, cabin crews, pickups, call center operators, nurses, etc.. However, we believe it is necessary to establish a set of standard rules that will enable us to define, in a fair and equitable manner, the professions of rapid wear, as well as the promotion of effective and effective measures to mitigate penosity, with an impact on health and safety issues at work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u343	It's always the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u344	... thus reducing the harsh working conditions and their negative impacts on the health of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u345	It's always the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u346	Sir, I understand you're nervous. The conversation is not always the same, the conversation is in the sense of solving more and more the problems of workers. And that, Mr President, is not a sign of the Communist Party. This is a flag that joins the PS and the parties on your left... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It is a flag that is not only raised in the protest but also in the resolution of workers' problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] We are therefore aware that the Government is monitoring and dynamizing the development of this regulatory framework for the rapidly worn-out professions, which is why - and I conclude, Mr President - we believe that there should not be the qualification of rapid wear-out professions. There has to be a legal, uniform framework with standards that measure what these professions are. And for this reason, the PS considers that it is not appropriate for us to follow the initiatives of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u347	You have the floor to close the debate by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u348	Mr. President and Mr. Members: This debate on the professions of rapid wear and tear, but in particular on the one currently under assessment, is at least loaded. That is to say, whenever we have a debate on rapid wear occupations, all parliamentary groups recognize the difficulties of the profession, admit that there are problems that need to be solved, but in the end, we will see and there is nothing concrete going on. And in this debate it went out exactly the same again. In other words, there is the delay of a decision: it cannot be now, it must be tomorrow; it cannot be this way; it must be otherwise; there is a working group that no one knows what it is doing—it must have so much work that it will also ask you to recognise the status of rapid wear. No one knows what this working group, which is supposed to have been working for more than a year, has done. And in the middle of this, there are workers and professions, years ago, waiting to have this regime. What these workers do not have are years of waiting. And that's where the problem is. I ask the PS Member, who says he is very concerned and aligned with his left in this matter, where was the PS when draft law on shiftwork was presented. Where was the PS when bills were presented to remove the serious changes that were made to the Labour Code? I wasn't there, sir! Therefore, we need to look at the practice and see if there is a problem that is identified and if there are solutions to this problem. So the PS will have to start voting according to what he says and not according to what he doesn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u349	Mrs. Deputy, you're going to have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u350	That is why it is necessary — to finish, Mr President — to the workers at the moment. It is not to say that we are very concerned, it is to act on that concern. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-21.u351	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debates on today's agenda. Tomorrow, we have a plenary session at 3 p.m. as an agenda which has, as a first item, the joint debate of Bills Nos 706 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Determines the circumstances in which digital environment access to protected content should be removed or prevented, as well as the procedures and means to achieve this result and 787 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Data Sharing Legal Regime. of the second point is the debate of the Bills Nos 678 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves the complementary legal framework for prevention and combating unauthorized financial activity and consumer protection and 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves a scheme for the prevention of unauthorised financial activity for the protection of consumer rights. The third point consists of the joint discussion of Bill No. 657 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary linkage of all teachers with five or more years of service up to 2022, 658 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — The eighth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June, which establishes the recruitment and mobility regime of basic and secondary teaching staff, 659 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Accounting of working time for social security purposes, of teachers hired at term with incomplete hours, 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Open competition for the extraordinary linkage of teaching staff of technical and artistic components specialized for the exercise of functions in the areas of visual and audiovisual arts, in public educational establishments; of Resolution Projects Nos 868 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Reduction of inequalities affecting teachers hired with incomplete hours, 1138 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct a fair competition to value the teaching career and respect the needs of schools and 1140 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Establishment of fair rules for teaching contests, which respond to the needs of schools; petition No 123 / XIV / 1. a ( Ricardo André de Castro Pereira et al.) — Amendment of the intervals for the examination of teachers, in particular Article 9 ( 8 ). the Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June; of Bill No 682 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Extraordinary programme of linkage of teachers with five or more years of service, 761 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Determines the review of the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff and 762 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Programme for the linkage of special technical teachers of artistic education specialized in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts; and of the Resolution Project No 895 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Working time declared to Social Security of teachers recruited to perform part-time functions. of the fourth item on the agenda is the joint debate of Petition No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( Luís Miguel de Melo Torres Marques et al.) — Together with local accommodation and Law Projects No. 785 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Alter the scheme for the authorisation to operate local accommodation establishments( 5 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ), 786 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Decreases the coefficient of local accommodation ( Change the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ) and 788 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — eliminates tax increases in local accommodation. Finally, in the fifth and last points, the vote will take place. Mrs. Members, at today's Leaders Conference we had put the hypothesis of a regimental vote that requires electronic voting to be made at 17 hours. It turns out that I have seen the schedule and the difference between voting at 5 p.m., with all the confusion that this implies, of entries and exits, and do so - at the beginning of the regimental votes is very small, because the regimental votes will be between 17 a.m. and 17 a.m. and 15 minutes, or 17 a.m. and 30 minutes. So if everyone agreed, we would pass the vote on this diploma for the start of the votes and not create this excessive noise at 17 hours tomorrow with the interruption of the work. I wish everyone a good afternoon and a good night. See you tomorrow at 3 p.m. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 20 minutes.]]
