ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 2 minutes.]] the first item on our agenda today is a debate under Article 4 ( c ). the Act No 43 / 2006 of 25 August with the amendments introduced by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May, with the participation of the Government, to take place at the beginning of each Presidency of the European Council, on their priorities. In order to speak of the opening of the debate, Mr Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva has the floor, which I take advantage of to greet. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. It is with the greatest pleasure that we participate in this debate on the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. And as the first four weeks of the Presidency are almost done, let me make an approach to our priorities, from the point of view of their pursuit, of what we have been doing or implementing in terms of the priorities we ourselves have set during this first month of the Presidency. With regard to the first priority, such as the honourable Members. Members will remember, it is defined in these terms: to promote the recovery of the economy of European society by betting on the green and digital transition and promoting Europe's resilience. I begin by referring to the most important — and the most important is the institutions and values: we are working to ensure that the hearings necessary for the continuation of the two proceedings opened under Article 7 are properly scheduled. the Treaty of Lisbon. We have also already defined the terms in which we will move forward in the peer review of the rule of law situation in different European countries. It is now up to us to promote the in-depth analysis of the second group of the five alphabetically ordered countries, as you know, and we are awaiting decisions on the implementation of the new conditionality mechanism on the use of European funds by different Member States. at the same time—and I think we are in a position to do—we have sought to unlock the impasse that was there and with which, if it remained, we would have difficulty launching the Conference on the Future of Europe. The institutions are talking to each other and I believe that we will soon reach the consensus necessary for the Conference on the Future of Europe to begin. In the present recovery, the main urgency, in the days that run, is the response to the pandemic in its triple dimension. First of all, in strengthening the health response and coordination of the measures taken by the different Member States. From this point of view, the Portuguese Presidency already has two very important decisions: the Council's recommendation on the systematic use of rapid antigen tests and the Council's decision on the reciprocal recognition of PCR and antigen tests. We are concluding another decision, which will be very important, on the recognition of vaccination in the different Member States. This is a very important first dimension in response to the pandemic. There is another dimension, which is to combine this response with the preservation of the internal market and the Schengen area. This week there are meetings at the level of permanent representatives, so that we can all fine-tune measures to protect citizens and health systems, maintaining the principle of free movement, including goods and goods and also of people who are essential to the development of the internal market. As regards the field of vaccination, this occurs in the different Member States and Portugal is approaching the vaccination of 3 % of its population. There are problems from the point of view of supply and supply due to contractual breaches of the undertakings which have been contracted by the European Commission and the Presidency supports the European Commission in its efforts to overcome such non-compliance. With regard to the second important aspect in this logic of the recovery of the European economy, which is the dimension of the New Generation programme and the instrument of recovery and resilience, I will not refer to this point now, because we shall have a specific debate on this issue immediately. Progress towards the point of view of the new multiannual financial framework. We are finishing the necessary regulations, which are several tens, at the full entry into the ground of the various programmes that constitute the multiannual financial framework and next week will be launched publicly the new Horizon Europe programme. With regard to the dual transition, we have already moved with the European Parliament to try to conclude the adoption of the European Climate Law in this semester. In the social Europe dimension, we await the publication of the European Commission communication on the implementation of the European pillar of social rights and work on the legislative agenda. What I think is more advanced is the procedure for the regulation on the coordination of the different social security systems. Finally, I refer to the priority to strengthen the autonomy of a Europe open to the world, this line of action on global Europe. We have worked on the dimension of cooperation on vaccination, therefore in support of neighbouring countries, developing countries, particularly Africa and Latin America, in their vaccination strategies. I have completed a political mission in Mozambique, which resulted in clear priorities in the support the European Union will give to that country. Finally, I refer to the adoption of a pilot project, which seems very important to us and in which the Portuguese Presidency has made a great effort, which is the coordination of European maritime presences in the Gulf of Guinea, to ensure a permanent European Union support mission to the Gulf countries of Guinea, ensuring the maritime safety of this important means of trade and navigation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u3	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Today we discuss the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In essence, we are discussing the European project, a project that started decades ago, but every day we need to remember, improve, reinvent, feed the idea of common citizenship, bring the process of European construction closer to citizens, make it ours and each one of us. at the same time that we live one of the most important moments politically, as members of this Union, we also live one of the most dramatic as a people. at this precise moment, when we assumed the Portuguese Presidency, nearly half a million Europeans lost their lives because of a pandemic that dragged the world into a devastating economic and social crisis. But we have also managed to demonstrate in the community the European principles of humanism, pluralism, equality and solidarity in which our Europe is based. We taught the world a lesson. We have given a lesson to those who still do not believe in a Europe of sharing and aid by financing research, production and distribution of a free and universal vaccine for all citizens of the European Union. We live in a geographically peripheral country, which sometimes makes us fall into the temptation to forget that we Portuguese too are at the heart of Europe, and we are also a European people. But this European identity, which brings us to a citizens' Europe, to a common house, claims the best of Portugal, the best of us. And it is today, at this particularly difficult moment, that the Portuguese look at us and hope that here, in Parliament, in the House of Democracy, we know together what separates us and is in line with what Europe is expecting us. It is this message of hope and unity for a people who have raised themselves to focus on what is essential for the Member States and for the European citizens who must guide us all, so that we can now focus on the real discussion of Europe's recovery priorities. And the response to the crisis is one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency. And the first step in that answer is vaccination. Only when we vaccinate enough people will we be able to resume our normal life, so ambitious. Alongside vaccination, we are committed to the economic and social recovery of Europe, which is enhanced by climate and digital transitions. The implementation of the European Ecological Pact, the adoption of the new climate law, the commitment of carbon neutrality in 2050, the reform of technological transition, the bet on the new digital services package are imperatives that catalyze economic and social recovery. Another of the Portuguese priorities is the European social dimension. Together with the economic responses, the social responses to this crisis have a central role to play in their fight. And it is important that there is a combination of interests and objectives with the social partners to strengthen the European social model, to strengthen social cohesion, to place the focus on the person. We must bet on valorising the citizen so that he can fight for more and better learning, more and better job opportunities, better wages, more social protection, to fight poverty and create equal opportunities for all. It is a priority for a society that truly incorporates European values, a society in which everyone has space, in which everyone is welcomed, regardless of their ethnic origin, their sexual orientation, their gender, their religion, their belief or their political choice. To give shape to this new vision of the European social model, it was marked for May, in Porto, a social summit, which aims to muscle Europe to the next challenges and of which we look forward to great results. The third priority is to strengthen and consolidate the strategy of a Europe open to the world. One of the lessons we have all learned from this crisis is that we need to build a more armored and better prepared Europe to deal with'strange and unexpected' factors. Seek new partners, create new cooperation networks, while strengthening relations with our former allies. The United States, Africa, India and obviously the United Kingdom are and will be central allies in this leadership role that Europe, and well, claims for you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: If we believe and fight so that, in a defined geographical space where so many different cultures live, there can be true equality, it is to make politics, it is to perceive that we are all political actors. And as politicians we are, we have an obligation to recognize that the noble art of commitment has benefits for society, that our participation has to be positive, identifying problems and seeking solutions. This is the time to act, to create the foundations for future generations to feel European, and later to pay back to society the same culture of solidarity, imbued with the spirit and European values which, since the Treaty of Rome, guide the path we have travelled so far, towards a common project and against the globalisation of indifference. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u5	Also for the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues now speaks. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : I would like to begin by congratulating you, Mr Minister, on the inclusion in the Portuguese Presidency programme of a point specifically devoted to the outermost regions, which makes a very good impression of the condition of these regions in the European area. It is a condition that gives them a unique potential, but of which there are, too, unalterable structural limitations. We are very pleased to see the role of regions in matters such as international ocean governance and space policy. If it is true that, as regards natural conditionalisms, we can only compensate them, it is also true that, as assumed in the programme, it is necessary to stimulate the full development and exploitation of the potential of the ORs ( ultraperipheral regions). We are well aware of the negotiating effort the Government has made to maintain programmes and co-financing rates. It is also necessary, at the level of the design of programmes and measures, to suit the specificities of the ORs, not only as a whole, but as the specificities of each of the outermost regions of Europe. I would like to refer in particular to POSEI, a programme to support the outermost regions. We recognize the efforts of the Portuguese Government and the success achieved for the transition period, but I cannot help but express much concern about the 2022 horizon. It is necessary to avoid distortion of competition in the internal market, to the detriment of the economic activity of the outermost regions, where agriculture has a central role, as in the Portuguese case, the situation of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Mr Minister, what results does the Government expect to achieve with the attention that the Portuguese Presidency will give to the ORs and with the link it intends to make with the Conference of Presidents of the Ultraperipheral Regions, which is also chaired by the Azores in the first half of this year? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u7	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Presidency of the European Union is in the most difficult situation Europe has faced since the signing of the Treaty of Rome in March 1957. The pandemic that afflicts humanity has experienced a particularly serious evolution, despite science having managed to produce, in record time, a vaccine against the first strain of SARS-CoV-2. in this context, therefore, there is no doubt that the first priority of the Portuguese Presidency must, of course, be the vaccination of as many European citizens as possible in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u10	Vaccination must occur in circumstances of great equality between Member States, which is the same as among European citizens, regardless of their nationality of origin. Vaccines must reach at the same time, in as many quantities as possible and proportional to the population size of each country. Vaccination is the main weapon in our fight, and the link between all the Member States, as regards the protection measures to be taken, is the other determining aspect of action at European level. The solidarity that the Union has shown in this fight and which was very visible during the German Presidency has led to a rebirth of hope in the common European project, which in recent years has begun to fade with many citizens. This solidarity — well present in the issue of vaccination — also has a large scale at the level of the European funds available for economic recovery. The financial and economic devastation that the pandemic will bind us is surely the most heavy burden the Old Continent has to bear since the destruction caused by World War II. The second priority of this first half of 2021 should therefore be to speed up the use of the funds at our disposal for economic and social recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u12	In fact, the social aspect itself is absolutely decisive at the time when digitalisation and technological development play the leading role of economic restructuring. We cannot leave anyone behind for lack of support for their professional conversion. This would be economically irrational and socially unfair. The use of these funds in combating global warming, particularly at the level of energy transition, is another mandatory aspect of our Presidency. In fact, it is right that, since the reimbursement of these funds is quite prolonged over time, they have a very significant aspect of service for future generations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The election of Joe Biden to President of the United States opens us again the prospects of a healthy and rational relationship with Europe. The Portuguese Presidency must therefore not ignore this opportunity and must of course take advantage of it, once again narrowing these two areas which the Atlantic unites.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u14	Who better than Portugal just to make the Atlantic a bridge than an obstacle? Oh, my God! Less positive will be the construction of the new relationship with the United Kingdom after the implementation of Brexit. But continental Europe cannot stop having a very close and close connection with the British islands, despite its recent departure from the Union. The scheduled summit with India can and must also take a decisive step towards a new step towards bringing the European Union closer to that area of the globe and thus achieve a better balance in the relationship with the major emerging economic forces worldwide. But being our country in the exercise of the European Presidency, it is impossible not to take advantage of it to look at Africa too. Our historical and cultural links place Portugal in the privileged position of being able to contribute to a greater and more solidarityary connection between Europe and this continent, which so needs it to be strengthened. Mr President, the task that our country is called upon to play, at this dramatic moment historic for the whole of Europe, is far from easy. It is, however, stimulating, because its action depends to a large extent on the near future of the European Union, which, without rapid and fair vaccination, will not be able to firmly and decisively remove for its economic and social recovery. It is in this framework, and on behalf of the Portuguese prestige, that the PSD hopes that the Portuguese Presidency will be a positive step towards our collective future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u15	Mr Fabíola Cardoso has the floor now by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u16	Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union will be strongly marked by the response to this health crisis, but also economic and social, caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Faced with the worsening situation at national and international level, the difficulties of the European Union become apparent. Problems and confusion follow: delays in the Pfizer vaccine; suspicions of deviations from vaccines produced in Europe to other markets, particularly for the United States or Israel; doubts about the effectiveness of the new AstraZeneca vaccines. Brussels has invested many million euros. It was us, each one of us, who invested in the urgency of a vaccine. Brussels took on the risks of investment, which allowed it to develop vaccines in record time, but Brussels left these vaccines delivered to market logic, to the speculative games of the pharmaceutical industry, not guaranteeing its common property. In the view of the Left Block, vaccines should be universal public goods, not money for the exchange of millionaire profits of large pharmaceutical corporations. Brussels calls for transparency from companies, but does not disclose the contracts of many million that have been signed with these companies. Meanwhile, Europe is staying behind in vaccination. What does the Portuguese Government intend to do, within the framework of the Presidency of the Council, to help ensure compliance with the necessary time limits and quantities of vaccines? News has come to the public that progresses with Portugal's hypothesis to ask for international help to strengthen the National Health Service in response to COVID-19, even before proceeding to the request of private individuals. What mechanisms for European coordination are being equated at this level by the Portuguese Presidency, Minister? Another priority announced by the Portuguese Presidency is the strengthening of the European Union's social pillar, ensuring that the double transition, climate and digital, leaves no one behind. The Left Block considers that the social Europe, the green transition and the digital transition are right priorities and in line with the challenges facing the European Union. But, Minister, it is not enough to define priorities, it is necessary to ensure that the Portuguese Presidency does not lose itself in the intentions and proclamations. We have verified that one of the priorities will be to "enhancing solidarity and democratic values". This must be the answer to social challenges, not those that resort to division and hatred, and which are going to land a little across Europe, including in our country. in this sense, we consider it important to emphasize three axes of this pillar: the effective promotion of gender equality; the safeguarding of the rights of people LGBTI (Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, trans and intersex); and the protection of asylum seekers and refugees, who continue to escape poverty and war. How does the Government, in this context, want to respond to these challenges essential to strengthening democracies? How can we ensure that the funds will be used to strengthen the 'Europe of equality'? Finally, does this Presidency intend to investigate the refusal of rescue operations in the Aegean and Mediterranean seas and the illegal contours of asylum seekers' returns? This crisis is particularly critical to the cultural sector. Their workers were disproportionately affected by the emergency and pandemic and there are many people in a dramatic situation. In the Portuguese Presidency programme, the Government takes as one of its priorities, and I quote, "to give attention to the economic sectors most affected by the crisis, particularly those of tourism and creative industries". when identifying this priority, we expect the government to take on the commitment to implement more robust and broad measures. That is why we are asking whether the Government is available to allocate 2 % of the global package of the recovery and resilience plan to culture and to ensure immediate support for professionals in the arts and culture in an emergency situation. Finally, and with regard to another priority of the Portuguese Presidency, that of transatlantic relations, I would like to ask how the Minister sees the possibility of ratifying the European Union/ Mercosur Free Trade Agreement, when this agreement is made to the extent of multinational companies, to the detriment of the interests of peoples, democracy and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u17	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u18	I conclude, Mr. President. Import more meat and soy from South America, increasing external dependence and intercontinental travel, never, as now, seemed as bad an idea.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u19	You have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Members of the Government : For the CFP, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union should provide an opportunity for Portugal to place on the agenda of the European Union the need for questioning the policies which it imposes on the peoples and which are at the root of the social inequalities and development asymmetries that run it. The seriousness of the situation requires another direction, which ensures the conditions for the sovereign development of countries such as Portugal, to overcome structural deficits, to restore productive capacity, to raise the living conditions of workers and peoples, valuing their wages, respecting, protecting and raising their rights, a course that assumes the defence of democracy, that is, economic, social, political, cultural rights and the sovereignty of each people. This is not the option of the Portuguese Presidency's programme, which essentially pursues the objectives of deepening the process of European capitalist integration and its pillars and instruments of domain, at the service of European powers and transnational capital. A reference to the so-called « social rights pillar ». The announced social summit in May should be a time to affirm the need for a real increase in labour and social rights, not by the ulterior proclamation of intentions and by the leveling of backwardness, but by concrete measures and objectives that ensure rights and convergence in progress. A pact is needed for employment and social progress, which aims at full employment, the eradication of precariousness, the defence of collective bargaining, wage recovery and the reduction of wage-free schedules. A pact is needed to promote the defence and strengthening of public services in each country, ensuring the right to health, education, housing and social security. The CFP alerts that the so-called European Union of Health or European Health Market does not point to the training and necessary strengthening of public health services, but seeks to open up the fields of liberalisation, privatization and concentration projects in this sector. In the so-called 'green agenda', we stress that, in the necessary protection of the environment, by preserving the balance of nature and its ecological systems, the response to problems must also ensure that access to and enjoyment of nature, inter alia, of universal access to water, by combating the mercantillization of the environment, the privatization of resources and its ideological and political instrumentisation, are democratised. As for the so-called « digital transition », we draw attention to projects that can lead to a deepening of inequalities, a greater monopolistic concentration and additional attacks on national sovereignty. Advances in science and technology should be used to leverage national development strategies and contribute to the enhancement of labour rights and the reduction of working hours, without loss of wages and rights. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The programme of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in the view of the CFP, does not indicate solutions to the serious problems faced by the peoples. This response lies in respect and affirmation of the right of each country to development and social progress, in accordance with its specificities. It is found in ensuring the rights of workers and peoples, particularly the Portuguese people. It is found in the rejection of foreign taxes and constraints contrary to national interest and the prospect of building a Europe of cooperation between sovereign and equal States in rights, social progress and peace.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u21	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys : First of all, and at this opportunity when we approach the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, I would like to reaffirm on behalf of the CDS our commitment to the European project, to Europe for peace, to Europe with a social model that is unique in the world and to Europe for prosperity, which is also essential for this social model to be sustainable. Secondly, I would like to congratulate the Minister on the political mission he led on behalf of the Union in Mozambique. Several times here, we have called for this Union intervention and the commitment of the Portuguese State to do so and, of course, at this moment it is necessary to recognize this and to see with interest the priorities which Mr. Minister mentioned here, which are established from the visit that has been made, and to know how this could develop in cooperation with the State of Mozambique. Thirdly, I am referring to the context in which this Presidency is developing. Of course, we cannot consider this Presidency to be developed in terms where, for example, a year ago, or even six months ago, we could imagine it, since the context is totally different. It was thought six months ago that the German Presidency could still end in a post-Pandemic context and that our Presidency could already proceed in some normal way. This will not be the case at the beginning or the end, so it will be a Presidency with the same conditionalisms, having the advantage that the German Presidency has already existed with these conditionalisms. On the issue of pandemic, it is essential for us that the Union has resolved — and well — to lead this process in a cohesion context, for example with regard to vaccines, to know that this cohesion is effective in order to ensure that proportionality and timely supply is ensured to each Member State. On the other hand, the rules in which Member States acquire vaccines are clear, according to what is the European programme that has been defined and how they can be acquired unilaterally and that one thing does not harm the other. This is also essential so that there can be credibility and trust in this process. The question of the social model, of the European pillar of social rights, is perhaps, from a programme point of view, the highest priority of the Portuguese Presidency. from our point of view, it is important to develop this pillar, but we can never develop the pillar of social rights and the social pillar of the Union without development and commitment to what economic growth has to exist in the Union and therefore the economic reaction to the crisis. We all want to fight for no one to stay behind if we move forward, because if we all stay in the same place there is no one left behind, but the Union remains exactly the same. On the other hand, we must also bear in mind that what is often the temptation is not enough, I would say from the ideological, socialist point of view, but also from the programme point of view of the whole Union, which is to discuss distributive policies without giving the same attention to policies that will encourage production. It is therefore essential that in response to this very difficult economic situation we have to know how to set priorities. First, we need to know how we grow so that we can have a social model that is sustainable. It is also in this respect that the CDS will commit itself during this period, expressing its solidarity with the Portuguese Government to make the Portuguese Presidency a success.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u23	Mr André Silva, from the PAN, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u24	Mr President, Minister Augusto Santos Silva, when I have five questions I would like to ask you. In the coming months, Portugal should fulfil its commitment to place the European Union at the centre of the fight against the climate crisis. And this will only be achieved if there is a European climate law that sets ambitious and binding goals of carbon neutrality and provides for actions to ensure that these goals are met. Mr Minister, the first question I put to you is whether you are going to be hit by the completion of the legislative process in this Presidency and, more than that, you will ensure more ambitious goals than those that have been on the table. But making the European Union the beacon of fighting for a sustainable planet also means not to close the eyes to the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur, an agreement that gives white paper to illegal deforestation and the devastation of Amazonia and indigenous peoples. The EU / Mercosur agreement is far from achieving environmental standards and the most basic human rights, as Germany, the United Kingdom, France or Italy have already said. On this subject, what will be the role of the Portuguese Presidency? To leave this agreement as it is or to fight for non-ratification according to what is planned? Thirdly, I would like to tell you that the Presidency of the Council is not a summer festival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u25	The festivals are canceled!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u26	It seems to us that it does not coincide with the acceptance of sponsorships for the realization of their events, much less from the part of a company such as the Navigator, which means taking the lobby of cellulose into the Council and giving the hand to a harmful sector for the environment. I therefore ask you why the Government has signed this contract with the Navigator and if, on behalf of the compromise with a greener European Union, it is available to put an end to it. But there are points that are not on the Portuguese Presidency's agenda and which, in our view, should be. Of course, the absence of a European strategy for the protection of animals, which increases their protection and puts an end to the transport of live animals. This is crucial because since 2015 there has been no more strategy in this area, something that is not compatible with the commitments and values of the European Union of the twenty-first century. Mr Minister, will you open the debate on this subject in the Portuguese Presidency? Finally, a final question on the CbCR Directive, a key tool for combating money laundering and tax fraud by large multinationals. You already have a majority in the Council, but it was left in the drawer by the German Presidency. Mr Minister, are you going to be hit by the completion of this legislative process?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u27	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : Portugal presented the priorities for the Presidency of the Council and the Greens begin by stressing the 'Green Europe' to say that a 'Green Europe' and a European ecological pact can never go hand in hand with the instrumentalization of the environment, transforming it into business and without solving the problems we face. Of course, it is necessary to break off with the carbon market and not try to extend it, because it is not enough to put the words 'green' and 'green' in the objectives, because without a policy change as much as we will have is a greener Europe, but never a green Europe. On the other hand, policies are required for food sovereignty and local production and not for support for superintensive cultures, a crime, indeed, environmental and with serious social impacts. Even last week, the PS and the right rejected the Greens' proposal to put an end to subsidies for superintensive crops, such as olive oil. Mr Minister, Portugal also has a social Europe as a priority, and there is a need to defend fundamental values such as democracy, combating discrimination, poverty and hate speech, ensuring that no one remains behind. We need concrete actions, to reach out to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and sectors most affected by the crisis and also to strengthen the social functions of the State. The social pillar can no longer be a priority and the answers must be applied in accordance with the needs of the countries. The 'time of action' motto is of no advantage, because if this Presidency is of continuity it will not bring solutions to the problems. We therefore ask what is the Government's effort in the change that is required to put solutions on the agenda for our collective future, to the extent that the Government is willing to defend the national interest and what disruptive solutions we can count on. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to know whether during this presidency the Portuguese Government is available to give the example and a sign of change when signing the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and also to take other countries to do so, taking into account that the Treaty entered into force on 22 January last.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u29	Mr Ventura, from arrive, is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u30	Mr President, Minister, Europe has made an investment in vaccination never before seen, and it is probably the block that, in the world, has made more in terms of vaccination. The last contract, for example, was EUR 336 million and is not being fulfilled. I ask you what we are going to do to ensure that those with whom we have hired, to whom we have paid research, development and distribution, are scrupulously fulfilling what they have committed to European citizens. This is not so much time to look at those who want to come to Europe, it is time to look at Europeans, it is time to save millions of Europeans who now see their businesses closed, see their families destroyed and see their incomes diminished. Europe should be a model that the Portuguese Presidency could propose to save that same Union which is currently at risk of collapse in one of the biggest crises since 2. World War II. The United States has a new president, who has already made several interventions with the same tone of paternalism that the American Democrats have accustomed us to, the paternalism that will guide the world towards climate salvation and towards sustained development. It is up to us Europeans to say that neither China nor the United States accept moral lessons nor development models lessons. Mr Minister, confront him with your words : he said that the European Union would now work for a framework agreement on Mozambique, so I ask him what we are going to do to combat terrorism in a region that says so much to Portugal. Finally, the Minister said, a few days ago, that the image of Portugal is damaged by a two-step plastering. These lapses are the curriculum of European Prosecutor José Guerra...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u31	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. If the Minister acknowledges that this case is harming the image of Portugal in Europe, then I ask him whether or not the Government will have the courage to remove this prosecutor and appoint a new one, as several European Members have requested.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u33	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members :I heard Mr. Prime Minister a few days ago at the beginning of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, saying that he wanted to move from proclamations to practical action as regards the social pillar. All right, we're in full agreement. I ask you now, Minister, to do the same with regard to the pillar of strengthening Europe's strategic autonomy and resilience with regard to Community values. I already know that they will tell me that the defence of human rights is very important. But where is such practice rather than such proclamation? On many pages, the Portuguese Presidency programme of the Council of the European Union only speaks of the Chinese communist regime once, and it is not to express concern, but rather to rejoice with the investment agreement and with the agreement on geographical indications with China. So what will the Portuguese Presidency do to meet the assumed priority of reducing the European Union's external dependence on critical goods and technologies? What will you do to prevent companies subsidized by the Chinese regime from competing with unfair advantages over European value chains? What will the Presidency do, in particular, with regard to the Chinese regime, which increasingly oppresses the citizens of Hong Kong and continues to pursue the Uighurs? If you had more than 1 and a half minutes, you would also talk about what is going on in Hungary, or in Mozambique, or in India or Belarus. Perhaps it is naive of me, but I want to have faith that Portugal will protect and promote the essential values of Europe, protect human rights and freedoms. Mr Minister, I once here accused the Portuguese Government and the European Union of being cute with dictators. I'd like your answer to convince me that I was wrong. [[Thank you very much, Mr. PAN André Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u35	Before giving the floor to Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva, to close this debate, I just wanted to inform the House that we already have quorum for any vote. Mr Foreign Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I thank all the questions raised, stressing the very high consensus in this House around the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On behalf of the Government, I thank that consensus. It is a very important consensus of a multi-party nature, a national consensus which greatly strengthens Portugal's positions and interests in the European Union. From the first to the last, I could agree with the two speeches made by the Members of the Socialist Party and Mr Rui Rio's intervention, and I could also endorse the general agreement given to the priorities of the Members of the Socialist Party. Members who spoke on behalf of the Left Block and the CDS. This clarity in the national definition of what our priorities are, what our objectives are, and what our strategies are as responsible for the rotating Presidency of the Council of the European Union is very important internally and externally. In order to be consistent, he agreed that the different parties here, so clearly and explicitly, should do so in all essential forums, particularly in the European Parliament. The consensus we have seen here today, around strengthening the national position, which well understands what is essential and accessible in the definition of our European strategy, which clearly states our agreement with the essential values and objectives, cannot be undermined by political intrigue developed in other forums that undermine national interest and national positions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the concrete issues that have been raised, firstly, as you know, since the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Union's foreign policy is the permanent responsibility of the High Representative for the European Union's foreign and security policy, and it is up to the rotating Presidency to support and work closely with the High Representative, thus strengthening our capacity as global actors. What we do in this case is support and carry out missions that we jointly define as essential. One of them was exactly the political mission which I, as the High Representative of Mozambique, carried out, made it possible to establish clearly the priorities that the Mozambican authorities want to guide the strengthening of European cooperation, priorities for humanitarian action. The European Union defined northern Mozambique as the first priority of European humanitarian action in the large region of Southern Africa and the Pacific Ocean. There was also a strengthening of European support for development projects. It is now starting a large project, budgeted at EUR 4, EUR 2 million and directed by Portuguese cooperation, called « + Employment », whose aim is to train and employ hundreds and hundreds of young people from Cape Delgado province in the energy activities that develop there. Finally, we also have to strengthen security cooperation. in this case, the Mozambican authorities ask us above all to support military training, including special forces, logistical support and material support in equipment. Therefore, the political mission is done, the technical mission began exactly at the same time as I was in Maputo and my expectation is that, in the coming weeks, we can define the political framework for this enhanced cooperation. The same is true of our contributions to the essential of European foreign policy, either in the external policy aspect itself or in the context of trade policy. With regard to the latter, it is very important to have a geopolitical balance that there is a strengthening of European dialogue with India. It is very important that we do not miss the unique opportunity represented by the new Biden Administration and it is very important that we achieve a consent, as quickly as possible by the European Parliament to the trade and cooperation agreement with the United Kingdom, so that cooperation and convergence with the United Kingdom can develop, continue and strengthen itself now in these new conditions. We cannot forget Africa, as Mr Rui Rio has well remembered, and therefore the Portuguese Presidency, as such, is developing contacts and planning activities not only to prepare for the next summit, but also to move forward in the conclusion of the post-Cotonu agreement, such as bringing investment and support to the digital transition in Africa to the heart of European policies. But it is also very important — several Members. Members mentioned that the European Union is dealing with its own viruses, which go beyond the coronavirus, being one of the most dramatic we face the speech of hatred, racism, anti-Semitism and xenophobia. The Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union therefore assumes the essential objective of its exercise to develop the Action Plan for European Democracy, which was presented at the end of the year, to welcome and work with the European Commission for the Action Plan against Racism and to initiate the process of discussing the new act on digital services, of which one of the essential points is precisely to combat incitement to hate and violence on social networks. I am very grateful for the comments made by the honourable Members and by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Because of the lack of time, I have focused on what, from my point of view, and from the European point of view, makes the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union more unique. Of course, we must resolve as soon as possible the contractual non-compliances that are now occurring and that are delaying the vaccination process, but my answer to the various Mrs. Members who have asked this question are very simple: it is a matter of forcing companies to comply with the contracts they have signed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u37	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our first item on the agenda. We therefore move on to the second point, which is from the discussion of the motion for a resolution No 18 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves Council Decision ( EU, Euratom ) 2020 / 2053 of 14 December 2020 on the European Union own resources system and repealing Decision 2014 / 335 / EU, Euratom. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now looking at a specific aspect, but very important, indeed, of the European agenda at the moment. The Government calls on the Assembly of the Republic to adopt the motion for a resolution approving the decision on the European Union's own resources so that the process can then be followed by the President of the Republic. We are one of the first Member States to conclude — I hope today — this process. Croatia and Cyprus have already concluded this and Italy is in a very advanced process, but it is essential that national ratifications, which must take place in all Member States, of the European Union's own resources decision, be made in good time. Our view is that these can be concluded this spring, because its conclusion is essential for the European Union to be able to raise in the markets the EUR 750 billion that constitute the recovery fund. I therefore thank the Assembly of the Republic for the speed with which it has dealt with this process and believe that it will be a cause for pride if we are one of the first Member States to conclude the national ratification of the decision. What is this decision? Basically, it aims to increase the ceiling on own resources from 1, 2 % to 2 % of the European Union's income. What do we need the increase in this roof for? In order to have the necessary financial margin in order to obtain on the markets the funds needed to finance the New Generation programme and in particular the instrument of recovery and resilience. Why do we need these funds? Because the dimension of our New Generation programme, the dimension of the European Union's response to the economic and social crisis we live must be up to the scale of this crisis. We cannot face a crisis of this dimension, of this exceptionality, but by resorting to exceptional means! That is what the Heads of State and Government approved last July and then reaffirmed in December, and that is also what the European Parliament and the Council did in dialogue. With national ratification and with the approval of the own resources decision, we will have the indispensable margin so that we can make a joint debt issue under the best possible conditions to obtain a set of EUR 750 billion of funds, which — this is a very important point — will be used to finance programmes constructed from Member States, from the needs and projects of the Member States, proposed by their respective governments, agreed with their respective parliaments and aimed at the characteristics of each State, of each economy and of each society. This point is very important because it is not a single model for all or a model taxed outside each Member State, it is before national recovery and resilience plans which are prepared by the Member States, which are discussed in the Member States, which are agreed in the institutions of the Member States and which are then evaluated by the European Commission and finally approved by the Council. Our objective, as the Presidency of the Council, is that at least some of the national recovery and resilience plans will still be approved during our Presidency. So here are two parallel lanes that we are using: on a rail, we are creating the conditions at European level so that we can make this joint issue of debt and implement the recovery fund; on the other road, we are already working — the Member States, the European Commission and the Council in their Ecofin formation — so that national plans are being prepared for their approval process as soon as possible. This logic is new in the European Union. This is the first time in the European Union we have decided to make a joint debt issue of this size. It is also the first time in the European Union that we say that, for debt payment, we do not intend to reduce the national envelopes of future financial frameworks, we do not intend to increase national contributions to future financial frameworks, but, above all, we intend to finance the payment of the debt that we now hire through new EU own resources as such. It is indeed a 'before' and a 'after' ; there is a 'after' of these decisions that we made in 2020 and that is now about implementing. It is a 'after' characterized by a greater European awareness of the economic rationality underlying these decisions, by a greater European awareness of the need to preserve, together, the internal market, our common acquis, and by a greater European awareness of the fact that, in order to do so, we need to be aware of the seriousness of the crisis we are facing and to mobilize all the instruments we have in order to respond to that crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u39	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The decision accompanying this motion for a resolution itself represents a historic moment for the European Union and, above all, for us European citizens. It's important to remember how it started. Let us return to the confines of March and April last year all over Europe, just as we still live today, when the pandemic was spreading, the countries were defining and Europe seemed to dilute at the borders that were once again built up. We all called for European solidarity. In May, the President of the European Commission presented the Next Generation EU programme under the motto « The Time of Europe : Repairing the Damage and Preparing the Future for Next Generation ». Well, it is time for Europe today. We are still deeply affected by the pandemic and the economic and social crisis for which it dragged us. Eight months ago, the words of the President of the European Commission, as we can see, are even more current. Let us see, therefore, what this decision brings us: the recovery and resilience programme, at a global value of EUR 750 billion, is an extraordinary and temporary instrument to deal with the crisis resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and is complementary to the Plurianual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027. The same is true of the fact that the European Union, in addition to financing its multiannual financial framework, needs to obtain more EUR 750 billion in support of the consequences of COVID-19. Let us remember that in this amount EUR 360 billion will be used to grant loans and EUR 390 billion in grants to the Member States. The simple question is what is the source of funding for this amount. The solution found is unprecedented in the history of the European Union. For the first time, the European Commission will be empowered to finance itself - on capital markets, preventing each Member State from having to finance itself - on the markets, with the consequences that the sovereign debt crisis has already shown us. It is clear that the debt contracted has to be paid...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u41	Sometimes it doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u42	...and the question is how to pay. That is why the decision is being taken, proposing the creation of new categories of own resources, to begin with a national contribution calculated on the basis of the waste of packaging of non-recyclable plastics, following further contributions in the future to affect carbon emissions at borders, the digital sector and financial transactions. The stated aim of these new own resources is to make its application by the sectors on which they affect an instrument that contributes to the strategic objectives of the European agenda, in particular for the dual ecological and digital transition. It is an intelligent orientation of own resources to use them as a means of implementing the Strategic Agenda of the European Union. This decision, as we all know, has had a difficult journey, does not yet answer all the questions that the new own resources raise and that is why it is a step in the way in which to go. But time is running out, decisions have to be taken and Member States have to take it if they want to see a European Union again disappearing with the pandemic or if we can, together, cope with it. Therefore, we socialists subscribe and reaffirm: it is time for Europe. Let us then prepare our future and that of future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u43	Even in the time of the PS, Mr Carlos Brás has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : We are debating a fundamental instrument for combating the terrible social and economic consequences of the pandemic that afflicts the world. To be approved today, as expected, motion for a resolution No 18 / XIV / 2. a, approving Council Decision ( EU, Euratom ) 2020 / 2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of own resources of the European Union and repealing Decision 2014 / 335 / EU, Euratom, the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic will make its decisive contribution so that national procedures for ratifying the own resources decision advance as soon as possible and for the Member States of the European Union to have a robust and innovative financial instrument. The one also known as « European bazauca», by its dimension and robustness, is an instrument that may find only parallel in history in the Marshall Plan of the post-World War II. The COVID-19 pandemic placed the European Union in the face of an existential dilemma: either deepened integration mechanisms and found a joint response or faced the risk of disintegration. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we should remember what was on the table just over half a year ago. That was exactly it. But the Union has chosen to follow forward and face the pandemic, transforming it into the overrun necessary to deepen cohesion. This was a historic, unique and unpublished option. This step has been taken, as we see in this Council decision, in the adoption of unique and innovative mechanisms to support the social crisis, the loss of income and, essentially, the recovery and economic resilience. For the first time, the European Commission will be authorised to borrow funds on capital markets, given the exceptional amount of resources required. It should be said, by the way, that none of the Member States would have this possibility or these conditions of financing. But the European Union, through the Commission and after the validation of the Council, goes further further. This decision already sets out a course in relation to the Union's own resources and its strengthening, which meets the strategic priorities of the Government of Portugal, as well as its motto for the Presidency of the Council. by defining the path of future Union financing by taxing unrecycled plastic waste, carbon emissions at borders, a digital tax or a financial transaction tax, Europe at 27 is preparing a sustainable path for future generations. Critics will say that this is an inalienable area of sovereignty for each of the States, but the future, if we want it to be progressively integrated, cannot be another. Finally, Mr President, as a suggestion for reflection, what do we all think about: what markets would the State of Portugal finance in these amounts and what interest rates? Where would we find funding as a grant? I imagine VV. Ex. the scenario of vaccine competition in a global market, where Portugal would have to face competition from many countries, some of which are stronger and more powerful? Can you also imagine how difficult it would be for our country to contract the supply of these vaccines and, more importantly, to enforce those contracts? If the pandemic created us with heavy and heavy efforts, we could easily anticipate the difficulty that Portugal would have in going beyond them, in a disintegrated or uncoordinated European Union scenario. The adoption of this instrument is therefore of vital importance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u45	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Marques, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: Today we are taking a fundamental step towards consolidating the European project. The European Union is taking a step forward in its sustainability, we are starting a new path in independence from its own resources and we are beginning to guarantee the safeguarding of the structural funds. Portugal should have been the first country to ratify this agreement. It is not and probably we are only doing so here today because, about three weeks ago, the PSD questioned the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this matter. We do so after the Croatians, the Cypriots, the Italians and even the French, but, Mr Minister, it is worth more than ever! Ratification of the own resources decision is urgent because without it the European Commission cannot go to the market to find the EUR 750 billion that constitute the European bazauca. There are many who forget, but the European budget works as any budget: it has revenue and also has expenditure, and there are invoices that have to be paid. This ratification also proves that there are no European taxes, because it is the national parliaments that decide. New sources of funding are needed for the Union budget which are sufficient to pay the debt incurred for the recovery fund. With this decision, the European Union can charge a fee on plastics. For the next multiannual financial framework, after 2027, the debt cost will be around EUR 15 billion per year. It is not acceptable to overburden European citizens with more taxes, which is what would happen if national transfers were increased, but it is also not acceptable to cut the budget by EUR 15 billion per year because we know that this would harm cohesion policy and the CAP ( common agricultural policy) which are essential for Portugal. Those who do not pay must pay, so a fee on the digital giant will be, in the future, welcome. Those who cannot benefit from pollution, so the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders is essential in the future. These new revenues, now and then, as well as the rate on financial transactions, only work if they are adopted at least at the level of the European Union and not by the Member States individually. They speak of the bazouca as the solution for all problems, but the fact is that today we will see who is, in fact, responsible and wants to have revenue and also want to have expenditure. Others want to use the 'European bazauca' for everything, but do not want to finance it. They defend investment in agriculture, infrastructure and social Europe, but they are against increasing their own resources. This consequence in financing this aid package is to cut into structural policies, to cut in support of agriculture, to cut into territorial cohesion. Not approving the increase in own resources is condemning these structural policies of the European Union. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot blame Europe for misusing funds, because we are the ones who spend and we are the ones who apply. To give Europe more resources is to fight tax evasion, to support our agriculture, to protect our economy and to promote social and territorial cohesion. More own resources for Europe mean better distribution, more social cohesion and better future for Portugal and for Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u47	Even in the time of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Moniz has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: We see in these funds new revenue for the European Union and mutualizing the loan of EUR 750 billion, one of the best examples of the European Union, in its most basic and important expression of cohesion among nations. in this sense, it is essential that, as the European Union shows this cohesion, this solidarity towards Portugal, Portugal has the same coherent behaviour towards the Azores. The Azores must be indebted in order to be able to cope with the greatest economic and social crisis in their history too, because of its outermost region, they are in a situation more difficult than the continental national context and what is expected is that the Government of the Republic, taking advantage of a mutual debt to interest, extraordinary and historically low, can give the Azores the opportunity to be able to finance these historically low costs. I cannot fail to mention the success of discovering a vaccine in a record time in Europe. I can also point out something to the government in this context of vaccines. Yesterday, we heard Mr. Prime Minister say that the government reacts to your information in good time. I'm going to give you some information in good time: six of the nine islands of the Azores have more than 5000 Portuguese with more than 65 years without access to the hospital. This means that, in a serious situation where intensive care is needed, this population is previously doomed to death. What I want to leave here is the early warning that vaccines for this population are the difference between life and death. This is my timely appeal, so that the government will not say it did not have the information. With this information, it should prioritize these six islands and this patriotic population, which, for 500 years, under harsh conditions, as few in this House have seen, survive and honor the name of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u49	Mr Fabíola Cardoso, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u50	Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs and others. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen : We are discussing, even though for the worst possible reasons, what has been seen for many years as an impossibility, which is the adoption of a financing solution by means of the common debt issue, a mutual debt of 27. This decision, if it receives green light from the 27 Member States, will allow to change the European Union's own resource system and thus enable the Commission to obtain funding to deal with the consequences of the COVID-19 crisis. As the recent history of Portugal and Europe and, above all, if we look at the past crises and how they impoverished the vast majority of the country, we realize that, without its own resources, austerity, the precariousness of social and labour relations and perpetual indebtedness become the other face of the European currency of financing. Therefore, the adoption of new EU own resources is an important step in ensuring that the EU Next Generation Recovery Fund is no longer a mechanism of "hidden faces" for its Member States. at the same time, since it is a measure that increases the maximum level of Union revenue, it can prevent the promised funds from being paid with budget cuts in the future or with austerity measures paid by citizens. But if the importance and urgency of these own funds are indisputable, it is no less important to stress that the timing now envisaged to establish new taxes will delay in several years what should be put into practice urgently. The proposed dates establish that, with the exception of a plastic rate, all the other — the carbon emission rates, digital giants and financial transactions — will only come into force from 2023 if they enter, since the text is quite vague about this! If there is no strong political will, we are at risk of being habitual, in this case the new generations of citizens, paying the bill, while large digital companies and financial speculation continue to benefit from all crises.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u52	Although we recognize the importance of new own resources as a source of funding, the timetable now proposed by the political groups of the PS, the PSD and the CDS postpones in several years that, in some cases, are already to be implemented a decade ago. In addition, these priorities are out of line with what the EU targets should be, as the priority is placed on the carbon market. Let us say again, Minister, that the pandemic crisis we are going through cannot cause us to forget the climate crisis, which also threatens the lives of all of us in Europe and on the planet. We leave the question to the question: why insist on continuing to postpone the fight against climate change, protecting the polluting industries and the financial sector? There is still a complex and morbid bureaucratic process of ratifying the own resources decision, which causes us great concerns. What guarantees can we have, Mr Minister, that this money, which for some is already manifestly insufficient, will come in time to help? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u53	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Since the beginning of the debate on the budget of the European Union, in particular with this modality of the recovery fund, the CFP has drawn attention to two aspects which need to be stressed. On the one hand, the urgent need for a substantial strengthening of the Union budget, with the guarantee of its redistributive function and the objective of an effective economic and social cohesion. A budget built from national contributions, according to the principle that countries with higher income and more benefit from the integration process can and should contribute proportionately more. On the other hand, a definition of priorities not to benefit the same as usual, but to support the countries that have lost most with the euro, the single market and common policies. However, when the approved multiannual financial framework had unacceptable cuts, from the point of view of cohesion policy, the European Union's response, whose realisation comes from the decision that the Government submits to this House for ratification, does not correspond to that prospect which should prevail. As we have warned in due course, it is said that most of the funds from the recovery fund will come as a subsidy to States, but what will then be done in revenue will be omitted. In other words, the loan contracted by the European Commission will have to be reimbursed through increases in the participations of States or, more likely, through future and additional cuts in the funds each State will have access to and/or, by blackmailing, already in progress, on the so-called 'own resources' and European taxes in the framework of the tax union project, with more and important components of national sovereignty to be removed. It is for these reasons that the CFP expresses reservations about the measures indicated and its financing model. at European Union level, in the concrete context of the serious situation in question, we reaffirm that steps should be taken to ensure the cancellation of the fraction of the additional public debt issued to finance the expenditure resulting from the pandemic and its impacts. More precisely, the cancellation of public debt securities issued by Member States to finance these expenses that have been or have been acquired by the ECB ( European Central Bank ) and their national central banks under the sovereign debt purchase programme or the asset purchase programme due to the pandemic emergency. In this context the proposal is also put in place to enable the ECB to finance not by European mega-bank warehouses but directly to countries through the direct purchase of national public debt securities by way of derogation from Article 123. the Treaty of Lisbon. However, there is a question that arises at the immediate and national level regarding the provision and mobilization of resources to respond to the problems facing the country. There is one fact that cannot be ignored, which is the favourable context now in the financial markets with regard to the Portuguese State and Portuguese public debt. It was released days ago the news that Portugal was financed with negative interest, not in the short term, but at 8 years and now at 10 years. However, this context, regardless of other considerations, should not fail to be taken advantage of. If the country is financed immediately and with longer maturitys at zero or even with negative interest rates, as now happens, and this funding applies to reproductive investment, then it can respond better to the problems ahead, reducing the deficit and debt in this process. at this time, with due reservations and alerts, we are not rejecting solutions, we are pointing out alternatives and even measures that combine and complement to a more effective and appropriate response. Without prejudice to the inevitable need for a change in political options in this Europe, we must now move on to concrete, just solutions that defend the national interest. This is the meaning of the CFP proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u55	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u56	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: Finally, we come to an essential discussion. We agree with much of what we are discussing here today and we shall vote. We agree with the approach that the European Union is taking in the current context and that is different, and this must be pointed out, from the approach it has had in other times of crisis, which obviously served as the basis for a reflection that now allows us to see things differently. Moreover, for us there are issues of European solidarity which make sense, which are deeply in this context and which, of course, deserve our support. We think it is important to say that all that is being discussed here is the financing of a recovery plan — funding naturally implies, as has already been said, spending on States and it implies that someone pays that expenditure — and we are also discussing the application that these funds will then have, in accordance with the national recovery and resilience plans. It is worth recalling, and Mr Minister recalled in his initial speech, that these plans are the authorship of each of the States, but are analysed by the Commission, which pronounces itself on them, and are voted on in the Council. Therefore, the important thing in this discussion is that we know how this all works. This is because rhetoric is a rhetoric of ease, which gives the idea that we will do whatever we want, that it will be paid you don't know for who, but not for us. Well, there's no such thing, Minister! We are not going to do what we want, because we are subject to an analysis by the Commission and to a validation by the Council, nor is there any substantial support lost. I am always mistrustful when I hear — and this is also true of some national measures — of deep-disbursed support involving debt. That doesn't exist! If it involves recourse to debt, it is not only the lost fund as it will entail an associated expenditure, which is the expense of debt service. Therefore, it is appropriate that all of this be transparent. As transparent as we recognize that, obviously, debt service will be lower if this debt is assumed by the Union as a whole than it would be if each country were to do so individually. But it's debt, it has to be paid and it has a cost! We have to tell the whole story! We have to tell the whole story to people so that then there is not what normally exists, which is a mistrust of the European project. Then, let's go to that question of own resources. Own resources from whom? Are they from the Union? Does the Union produce anything to have its own resources? Does the Union exploit any resources to have its own resources? The only resources that the Union has come from the Member States and the resources that Member States have come from its taxpayers. Therefore, the own resources are the own of each one of us! They belong to each contributor! So let us say whether each of us, as a contributor, is available to pay for recovery and an organised recovery plan at European level. I think that the generality of people will be available, provided that this is balanced and transparent. Therefore, our vote will be abstention, for a very simple reason: we believe that the process is not transparent, that these own resources are of the taxpayers...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u57	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...and more than what was said to be the essence of these own resources, i.e. financial and digital transactions, purely and simply does not exist at the moment. The only thing that exists is the increase in the tax burden on taxpayers, about the taxation of plastics.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u59	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u60	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The proposal we are debating today brings the framework of the famous European bazauca, showing that together the European project can be strengthened and also that a truly solidarity Europe between its Member States is possible, despite the socio-economic differences that we can see. We therefore strongly welcome the fact that, in order to address the economic consequences of this crisis, this joint debt issue mechanism has been envisaged, a solution that ensures risk sharing, which prevents the increase in debt associated with the health crisis and also prevents the increase in national risk premiums or, on the limit, a new sovereign debt crisis, thus opening the way for the consolidation of a real European social pillar that contributes to responding to the global crisis that we are living in. We also welcome the importance of diversifying revenue sources for the European Union, particularly in environmental matters. We cannot fail to welcome that, through a national contribution, calculated on the basis of the waste of unrecycled plastic packaging, if the rate of 80 cents per tonne of non-recycled plastic has been set, a claim that the NAP has long argued that environmental costs should be included in the costs of goods or services in order to reflect its real economic cost. This proposal ensures - and creates incentives for Member States to increase the recycling of plastics, a fundamental measure for both our country and for the protection of biodiversity, considering that today we have a recycling rate of only 15 %, which is, in fact, very low for both national and European environmental targets. Above all, it is a proposal that could lead to the extension of these measures to other goods or services which, by not internalizing the environmental cost, continue to contribute to a markedly extractive economy, which is the main responsible for the climate emergency crisis that we also live in. This economic perspective can only continue to dominate because it has given way to the established powers and to the sectors that have so far remained untouchable. Therefore, it is really an evolution that we are watching in relation to this rate. Mr Minister, however, we must not fail to make a warning: for these funds to be used, it is imperative that there be the creation of the transparency portal, which was planned in the State budget, for the fight against corruption, for greater transparency in the use of these money and even at the level of the transition to the green economy. On the other hand, these funds cannot be used to finance more than that, as they have so far. I am talking about, for example, highly polluting industries and betting on a markedly intensive agriculture. Therefore, what we hope is that these funds will be used in a truly ecological transition, with greater respect for biodiversity and animal protection, in line with, of course, the socio-economic recovery that the country needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u61	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u62	I really am concluding, Mr President. Only by combining these three pillars — social, ecological and economic recovery — can we make the transition that the country needs so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u63	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u64	Mr President, Minister : Without wishing to bring the debate to the debate that we have just discussed, however, I can only point out that, in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the implementation of the new multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund, we believe that it is a priority for us to walk towards economic, social and environmental recovery, but in accordance with the real needs of each country and, above all, without interference in its sovereignty. We will therefore hope that the Portuguese Presidency will also give clear signs in this regard. With regard to the motion for a resolution presented to us by the Government for discussion on the Union's own resources systems, I would like to say the following : in fact, the exceptional nature of the economic situation imposed by the pandemic crisis of COVID-19 calls for exceptional measures to intensify efforts to support the recovery and resilience of the economies of the Member States. The solutions set out in this motion for a resolution are based on the adoption of financing mechanisms through the common debt issue, and on the definition of criteria for the creation of new Union own resources. However, the great concern of the Greens in this discussion lies with the imperative need to ensure that the solutions now proposed no longer represent transfers of sovereignty to the European Union. In our view, what is required is not to allow any more transfers of sovereignty to the European Union, but to recover the sovereignty that over time we have been losing, from the outset, budgetary sovereignty, which, in these terms, represents the key issue of any people. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know whether the Government is willing to open up our tax sovereignty or whether we can count on it to oppose any attempt at new transfers of sovereignty to the European Union, above all, in such a delicate and as important matter as that of tax sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u66	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u67	Mr President, Minister : It is indisputable that the Member States need a resilience plan and that the European Union, at the stage at which we find ourselves, needs more than ever to do. But let's be frank! Own resources have a name: taxes or taxes, because, in fact, the European Union does not have productive capacity, nor is it an entity, on its own, subject to productive resources that lead it to be the producer and payer of taxes. Therefore, the Minister knows what we are talking about: creating new taxes for European citizens to pay for them. And the question is not even, as the rules in force point out, whether they enter into force in 2023 or in 2024. The question is to open the door to these taxes. We already have one of Europe's biggest tax burdens in Portugal, not only in relation to GDP (gross domestic product ), but also in relation to taxes on consumption. What we are doing here — when we were told that there would be taxes on digital, on the financial sector — is actually an additional tax on consumption. This is what we should say to the Portuguese and Europeans: "We will create new taxes, we will create new taxes and who will pay are you! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That's what we have to say. When we say « own resources», we give the idea of a spontaneous generation of creation that no one has to pay. Don't! We're gonna have to pay! Just as Mr President is not right when he speaks deeply, because we all know that debt services are paid and sooner or later we will also have to pay. That is why the question is this: what will be the limit for the Portuguese Government, now that it presides over the European Union on the creation of new taxes, and what will prevent us from creating European taxes to finance the military sector, the customs control sector or any other sector that is essential?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u68	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u69	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, with these rules, we have opened the door to the dissemination of European taxes, and that is what a courageous government should have the front of its citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u70	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the questions raised, which I will answer thematically. Firstly, on timing, it is clear that the sooner we complete this process of national ratification, the sooner we can issue the debt and, therefore, the sooner the recovery fund will be formed, the sooner the national recovery and resilience plans will be approved, which means that companies, families, people will have the right to investments that are indispensable to carry out the reforms and to increase our resilience. Therefore, by the intervention of Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, who asks whether the money will come in time, I deduce that the Left Block will accompany us in this very important decision to approve this national ratification today, because it is this approval that will allow the money to arrive in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u73	And you're going to give the answer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u74	And why is it necessary to ratify the State by its parliaments, and can we not say that the decision on own resources is adopted without the 27 Member States giving all their authorization? Exactly because, as Mr. José Luís Ferreira said, it is necessary to guarantee and respect the sovereignty of States. Therefore, the proof that there is no transfer of sovereignty, in what concerns Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso, is right here, because it makes the process very tense. Then there is a very interesting discussion in which I am not going to enter, because I am absolutely ignorant, which is whether the European Union, unlike a national state, is not a productive entity and therefore has to resort to taxes and taxes to finance itself, because, unlike a company, it does not produce its own revenue, selling products, investing in capital, making savings or speculating in the stock exchanges.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u75	You better not go in there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u76	My ignorance is that I also thought that the national state was not a productive entity in these terms, but if there are Mrs. Members who believe that the national state is as if it were a financial undertaking or speculator, while the European Union is a sovereign entity that does not produce wealth itself, my ignorance makes me conclude my observations here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for transparency and I wanted to say that the government not only followed her up as it has already taken steps to ensure that the implementation of the National Resilience and Recovery Plan is also guided by a powerful anti-corruption mechanism and transparency mechanisms in doing things. What we must always bear in mind is that the fight against corruption and the fight against transparency cannot be the screen to hide the desire not to allow funds to be implemented, programmes to be carried out and investments to be made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, as I know that the NAP accompanies the government in this concern, I would like to say to you, Mrs Deputies, that we are 100 % in accordance with what you have said. to Mr João Almeida, who asks for clarity and rigour, I answer: clarity is absolute and rigor is total. This is not about each Member State writing what you want on a paper, hand it over to the European Commission and say « I want money ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u77	Sometimes it looks!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u78	Don't! They are the national states, firstly, involved in a common strategic agenda, which clearly defines priorities, including that of digital transition and climate transition, and that in their processes of drawing up national plans, they comply with European criteria. No national recovery and resilience plan may affect less than 37 % of its funds to climate-related expenditure; no Member State may affect a percentage of less than 20 % of the funds to digital transition-related expenditure; national plans should respond to country-specific recommendations; etc. That is why this exercise must then be carried out with the Commission and also with this validation by the Council. As President of the Council, Portugal will ensure that this process of scrutiny, preparation and work is carried out in good time. Mrs Fabíola Cardoso is afraid that the rates, to be implemented from 2026 onwards, do not serve to finance the payment of the debt, but the answer is very simple : this joint debt issue has a moratorium, i.e. we will not start to pay in the next multiannual financial framework, which runs until 2027, but in the following financial framework, from 2027 onwards. Therefore, the consensus reached is feasible, since, until the start of the payment process of the debt service, we will have the new own resources approved. From that point of view, the work of the European Parliament was very important, because it was he who demanded that this timetable be accurate and that this road map be clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u80	It is not just about creating new own resources through new rates. It is also, as Mr Duarte Marques said, to take advantage of this creation of new own resources to pursue objectives that are ours. We want everyone to pay taxes according to their incomes, and that is why we want large technological and digital companies, which today do not pay virtually any taxes, to pay. This is the rationality of digital rates. We want fair competition, particularly in companies which are subject to decarbonisation processes, such as Europeans, in the face of their external competitors, which do not yet have such demanding criteria of decarbonisation. the emissions trading system and the carbon border adjustment mechanism. We want financial services, which today also do not pay financial transactions, to pay taxes, because we do not want only workers and small and medium-sized enterprises to pay them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And to do so, the European scale is essential. Therefore, it is not just about generating new own resources, it is about generating greater rationality, including from a distributive point of view. I took good note of Mr. Paulo Moniz's warning, which I am grateful for, but I would like to correct him at this point: he called for Portugal's solidarity with the Azores, but I cannot give it to him because the Azores are Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is solidarity with itself and that is how we understand our responsibilities towards the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u81	Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Ended discussion of motion for a resolution No 18 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), we move to the third item on the agenda, with the joint debate, in general, of the Bill No 68 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Defines the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of fragesias and drafts of Law Nos 151 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the regime for the replacement of extinct strawberries, 620 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Reposition of frequencies and 640 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — establishes the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of strawberries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be waiting for the government delegation to be recomposed and as soon as that happens, we will start this on the agenda. [[Pause.]] Let us then start the third item on the agenda, with the intervention by the Government of the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u82	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Establishing proximity governance, based on the principle of subsidiarity, is one of the strategic objectives of the XXII Constitutional Government Programme, which states that it will « approve the criteria for the creation and aggregation of local authorities, in order to correct the errors of the 2013 territorial reform, providing for the mandatory participation of the bodies of the authorities concerned and ensuring minimum territorial stability over three mandates ». This is what is stated in the Government Programme. The proposed law that I present to you is based on the conclusions of the report submitted by the technical group for the definition of criteria for the evaluation and reorganization of the territories of the Freguesia, resulting from the hearing promoted by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the National Association of Freguesias ( ANAFRE ), seeking to meet the concerns expressed. It should be clarified and stressed that this bill approves a general and abstract regime for the creation, modification and extinction of strawberries, not to increase or decrease the number of strawberries, but rather to update the criteria for their creation and define their procedure. It is therefore a matter of defining a general framework, whose content also enables, on a timely basis, to correct errors in the 2013 territorial reform. The diploma provides that the creation of freguesa must, cumulatively, comply with the criteria that apply to the population and territory — the number of voters may not be less than 900 voters per freguesa and, in the territorial areas of low density, may not be less than 300 voters per freguesa. Thus, it creates a differentiation sensitive to the diversity of realities of the national territory, which ensures the presence of the State in a logic of proximity and to enhance social and territorial cohesion. The criteria for the provision of services to the population, the effectiveness and efficiency of public management, the history and the cultural identity, the political will of the population expressed through their representative bodies are also defined. In order to give stability to the local map, the diploma determines that the creation of a parish is not permitted during the six-month period immediately prior to the date set for any elections and, in turn, after an amendment, no further amendments can be made in the following three mandates. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is, in short, a diploma that, by defining general criteria that meet various factors and, in particular, the will of the people, represented in democratically elected bodies, respects the identity of the territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u83	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Restoring the extinct ferries against the will of the people is a democratic plan that needs to be implemented. For this reason, the CFP proposes the creation of a transitional regime which establishes the procedure for the replacement of strawberries where this is the will of the populations. In this way, we believe that the frequencies in which their bodies opposed their extinction should be restored, allowing for a further pronouncement within 45 days. Within 45 days, the Assembly of the Republic shall approve the legislation which creates the concrete parish and the Installing Committees shall begin their duties 90 days before the forthcoming elections. If there is political will of the other political forces to solve this problem, which affects hundreds and hundreds of parishioners in the country, and to meet the demands of the populations and local bodies, it is possible and it is feasible to give concreteness to the replacement of the parish in the upcoming autarchic elections, with the approval of the proposal of the CFP. This is a claim not only of the authorities managed by the CDU, but also by PS and PSD. The extinction of freguesa generally did not bring advantages and the damage was immense, creating new problems that did not exist, which add to the immensity of other problems that already affected populations and which also contribute to aggravate territorial inequalities. Almost eight years have passed since the extinction of frequencies imposed by PSD and CDS. The feeling of the population is a huge loss — loss of proximity, loss of civic and political participation, loss of identity, loss of claimed capacity, loss of intervention in solving the problems. Loss! The populations feel forgotten and abandoned, particularly in the territories where, after taking the school, the extension of health, the post of the CTT Posts of Portugal or the headquarters of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), they still took the parish board, the last open door of connection to the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u86	In 2018 the Government committed itself to the presentation of a proposal for the creation of parish churches to correct the abnormal situations. It passed 2018, passed 2019 and only in the last days of 2020 gave entry to the proposal in the Assembly of the Republic. With these successive delays and delays, the Government has sought to create objective difficulties so that the replacement of the parish could still occur within the next electoral act. They remain the PS and the government with the burden that they have not achieved, because they have delivered the proposal late. On the other hand, the proposal for a government law is not a proposal for the replacement of a parish, nor does it provide for a transitional norm for its replacement, it is a proposal which sets out a set of criteria for the creation of a parish and which also seeks to apply to the parish wishing to be restored. It proposes criteria of population size and geographical area, of economic and financial viability, of the existence of a set of equipment, including equipment whose decision does not depend on freguey, such as health extensions — and many have been closed, with the challenge of populations — or the requirement of approval by a qualified majority in the assemblies of freguey and municipal, which is not required in any other decision of an autarchical scope. In practice, the Government brings a bill that prevents the reintroduction of extinct strawberries against the will of the people. This proposal neither enables many of the situations which the Government says should be corrected — it did not deserve the favourable opinion of ANMP or ANAFRE and which ultimately removed a set of suggestions previously agreed with ANAFRE. We can discuss legislation that determines the criteria for the creation of freguesis, but the problem that is urgent is to create legislation that allows the replacement of extinct fregueries, not the rule and framework, as they have been extinct, but respecting the positions of the populations and their bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u88	The Assembly of the Republic now has another opportunity to take a step forward. We understand that it cannot be wasted as it happened in 2016, when PS chose to converge with PSD and CDS and hinder the replacement of extinct frequencies. The question is whether the PS intends to converge with the PCP and to find a solution that will allow the replacement of extinct parishes or whether it is intended to turn its backs on the populations, lubricating them, saying that it has met, but in practice, approving legislation that prevents the replacement of extinct parishes, distorting the expectations of the populations. from the PCP, there is full availability to, in a speedy way, find a solution that meets the demands of the populations and that allows to create a legislative framework to return the fregueses to the populations, in time of their completion with the next autarchic elections. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u89	You now have the floor to present the bill of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the PSD and the CDS-PP have approved the proposed law of the Government Passos Coelho / Paulo Portas, which would give rise to Law No. 22 / 2012 and materialized by Law No. 11 -A / 2013, our democracy became substantially poorer. In fact, despite the pompous designation « Administrative reorganization of the territory of the parish », this law no longer did anything to impose the extinction of the parish, which was in fact the only objective intended, even if not assumed by the PSD / CDS government, with this so-called « administrative reorganization ». The challenge to the extinction process was, and is, public and notorious and extends to everyone and to the most varied sectors, from then on to the authorities. There have been hundreds and hundreds of e-mails from citizens, offices from municipal assemblies and assemblies of parish from all over the country that have arrived at the Parliamentary Group on Greens and, I assume, also to the other parliamentary groups, bearing in mind their opposition to the extinction of strawberries. Several times, thousands of autarchs from all over the country organized vigils, demonstrations and protests against this process. ANAFRE and the National Association of Municipalities opposed the aims of this so-called 'administrative reorganization'. The reasons for this widespread dispute lie mainly with the fact that the Government then did not attach any relevance to the 'pronunciation' of the authorities themselves on the subject and, on the other hand, because what was at the origin of this process was strange elements to the administrative organisation itself. In fact, what motivated this decision was not the interests of the people, and the Portuguese and the authorship soon realized that this process had nothing to do with the concern to improve the quality of life of people. This reform was designed to think about everything but people, their problems and their concerns. The purpose of this process was, exclusively, the reduction of the number of authorities, even though this involved, as it implied and as it continues to involve, sacrifices and more difficulties in the lives of populations. Nevertheless, against everything and against all, the PSD/CDS-PP government has advanced with the process of extinction. And he advanced, even knowing that the bodies of power that best know social reality and that, in addition, have the ability to reach more directly those who effectively contribute to the safes of the State. The PSD and the CDS-PP sought to save some changes — still questionable savings — at the cost of the quality of life of the people and at the cost of impoverishment of our democracy. And, by impoverishing democracy, this decision prevents taxpayers from having direct access to power bodies and points to more opaque and less efficient public management. In good rigour, this law of extinction of fragesia represents an unqualified attack on our democracy, on the decentralization of powers, on the development and social and territorial cohesion of the country and is substantially weakening the provision of public services to the people, a situation that is important to all to reverse in an appropriate and coherent manner. In the light of the Greens' view, this reversal must not only be carried out by restoring all the extinct fragesias and whose bodies have not given a favourable opinion, but also in the case of the fragesias whose bodies have given a favourable opinion, giving the authority to their bodies to be able to make an assessment of the contribution of the extinction to the populations and, if they so decide, to communicate the decision to the Assembly of the Republic in the sense of their replacement. This is the proposal that the Greens bring to discussion, now hoping that this House will be able to understand the effects and consequences that this decision represents for our democracy and also for the people. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u91	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Maria Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of so many promises and successive delays, today we are discussing proposals and bills concerning the creation of fregueries. But when it was thought that, finally, it would be to respond to the compromise assumed, once again, the intention is to postpone. Without wishing to make a broad history of statements and counter-affirmations, of the kind of one who says and contradicts to drag in time what he does not even know to say, I simply refer to some contradictions expressed by those who have, or have, the protection of the matter. In 2015, the PS included in its Government Programme the reversal of the law that extinguished 1168 fregueses and reduced 20 000 elected in the greatest attack that, in time of democracy, was done to local power, specifically to that of greater proximity. For the 2017 elections, nothing was done with the excuse that there was no time to deepen the matter and that it was more urgent to start a process of decentralization with new allocation of competences to the parish and municipalities. At the time, there were pronouncements, motions adopted in the parish assembly and municipal assembly of many councils in our country, regional and national demonstrations of strong mobilization were made to demand the replacement of the parish. In April 2019, the Minister of Internal Administration said — it is still the same, even if he does not now have that guardianship — that he had been sent to the National Frequencies Association, ANAFRE, a proposal for a diploma with criteria for the creation of fregetal grouping, « being the government currently waiting for the final position of that entity ». And he added: « The government wants even the new map of frequencies in the upcoming elections, which will be held in 2021. The Ministry of Internal Administration lasts a bill that will allow for the end of the merger that falls within the criteria to be defined in the diploma. Do not keep on seeking. ” However, at the same time, the PSD, by the voice of its Secretary-General, who is still the same, said about this intention: "It will be a complete nonsense and an error that will cost the country very much. The reform is consolidated and I see only two reasons for this initiative: to do more of a way for the PCP and the Left Block or electoral motivations, because the period of legislative elections is approaching. Do not keep on seeking. ” I don't know if this remains the official position of the PSD. Silence is a revealer of tactical ambiguity, without compromise, in order not to hurt autarchical susceptibility. The issue again focused on the government on 17 January, when, at the hearing of the State Budget for 2020, Minister Alexandra Leitão, now with the folder of the Public Administration, which was protecting the matter, said that « the government will propose criteria for the reversal of the fusion of freghies ». That's exactly how he made the intention. And then, in the continuity of other hearings, he was always expressing this will and this emergency, so to speak. In the meantime, another priority was given to the elections of the presidents of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), which once again delayed all this. But on 7 October 2020 it was the Prime Minister who entered the scene, announcing that the Government would shortly deliver a draft framework law to the Assembly of the Republic. And he also said that "this law is absolutely essential, because since 2012 there has been no longer a framework law punishing the criteria for aggregation of fregueses. In fact, we are faced with this legal vacuum, which alone justifies the creation of a new law a long time ago." All these reports made believe that the proposal was completed, generating once again expectations among the populations who have always fought for the recovery of their parish. However, in the past few days of these statements, the President of the Republic has said that he would veto any law that would cause a major change in the number of Fregueses in the country before the actual elections scheduled for October 2021. And so, on 11 November, in Parliament, the Minister did not have the same speech anymore, she did not commit herself to the presentation in the Assembly of the draft framework law at the time of the forthcoming autarchic elections and soon said that there would have to be a six-month period of absence in which neither could be created nor extinguished. This is the result of the introduction of the bill that we are now discussing. It is at least strange, to say no, to say laughable, that at the end of five years of announced conversations we are now debating a law that may have practical effects within four years. It is at least strange, not to say cartoon, that at the end of years of negotiations with ANAFRE, the opinion of this entity is so negative in relation to this proposal as well as that of the National Association of Municipalities. This timetable I have just made is intended to show that the PS and the government have never been very advocates of the replacement of strawberries. Of some may even be, but many may not, as if it were a right for quotas which must be set aside by paralyzing criteria. This is the result of the Government's proposal, with the aggravating of not being enforceable in a timely manner. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is irresponsible, even unacceptable, to foster expectations and disseminate objectives when it is known that this result is not expected. It is a lack of respect for so many people in so many frequencies that makes this their fight in the name of their identity. The Left Block is very much appreciated by the movements of citizens that in the country outside do not give up their fair claim and we believe that it is more than when it is time to correct gross errors of extinction of freguees made the rule and frame from office, as happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u94	The recovery of the parish, which is indeed the reason for this proposal, must take place in the appropriate time, the forthcoming elections, and the right to the exercise of citizenship, embodied in a participatory democracy that brings citizens closer to the political power and to the decisions to be taken, must be stimulated and ensured. That is why we bring the debate to this bill that, in a spirit of a framework law that defines models of creation of parish, presents assessment requirements in an open and comprehensive way, works as operational and not as an impediment, timing and agile procedures that allow the process to be triggered by representative bodies, but also by the population—we do not abdicate this principle— and refers the appreciation to the competent bodies, giving speed to the foundation and the process, reporting some procedures for regulation after the approval of the law. It is for the benefit of contributing to the approval of a balanced law that responds to the announced objective and corresponds to the grounds of the explanatory statement that we present this project to debate. Let's hope they agree with him. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u95	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo now has the floor. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u96	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The Liberal Initiative is in favour of decentralization and the transfer of State power to local communities and, where possible, to citizens. But the liberal position is that this autonomy is full only if it is accompanied by its financial responsibility. The Liberal Initiative will respect the autonomy expressed in local wills, in cases where they are largely majority and have material conditions to exist alone. However, it is important to ensure the proper use of material and financial resources. Those who ask for freedom and autonomy must also assume the corresponding responsibility. Many services provided locally depend on economies of scale and coordination with other territories. This needs to be considered so that decentralization is no longer a way to get jobs for the boys at the expense of Portuguese. Therefore, we are open to the discussion in the specialty to deal with the structure of the parish, but also with its competences and method of financing. But I would like to make it clear that the Liberal Initiative is directly opposed to this degree being discussed in a hurry to enter into force before the forthcoming elections. This would certainly give the PS very good, to distribute places, or the PCP, to survive, but would damage the interests of the people and democratic diversity at the local level. Whether or not we agree with the final version of the diploma, it should only come into force after the elections. For these kind of arrangements don't count on us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u97	You'll hear the people!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u98	The next intervention will be by Mrs Isaura Morais, PSD. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of the parish, about eight months from the national elections and in a framework of strong economic, health and social constraints which obliges us to increase rigour and concern for our collective future. The PSD has always taken the local power very seriously, based on the action of its autarchs and the importance it has always given to the authorities. We are a party with strong implementation in local power and we are aware that local power is, and will always be, an unfinished mission. Citizens and businesses have a direct and daily relationship with the activities of local authorities and recognize their role as nearby administration. Therefore, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome all the autarchs, who continue, as always, on the ground, to take vital and fundamental measures for their populations. The territorial reform of the parish was imposed by the troika in 2011, which would end up including in the Memorandum of Understanding, a moment from which it assumed the nature of an international commitment that the Portuguese State had to fulfil. The reform was done in the context that it is the knowledge of everyone, under external intervention and in a state of national emergency, that implies a rationalization of the number of local authorities and did not aim at a reduction of public expenditure to them affect and allowed the release of financial resources placed at the service of the citizens, together with a management of all the aggregated heritage respecting the principle of good administration, which, in general cases, continued to contribute to a qualitative improvement of the relationship between the authorities, their representatives and the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u101	Therefore, contrary to what many anticipated, the territorial reform of the parish did not lead to problems in the 2013 municipal elections, which followed, which ended up being those that recorded the smallest number of incidents throughout the democratic history of local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u102	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u103	contrary to what many have assured, such reform had a wide acceptance by the elected autarchs in this electoral act. The results achieved in the study promoted by the Technical Group for the definition of criteria for the evaluation of the reorganization of the territory of the parish, among the aggregated frequencies that responded, concluded that 74 % did not intend to reverse the reform and that the reform brought more advantages in the services to the population and greater efficiency in the management of resources and expenditure. The reform was not perfect, because there are no perfect reforms!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u105	Less of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u106	The only perfect reforms you know are those that never came out of the paper. Therefore, the PSD has always said that this reform was no exception and has always stated that it was available for, in the future, to improve, with small adjustments, the current map of the parish, made this rigorous monitoring and evaluation and after time had elapsed enough for both of them to be made more sustained, in a temporal space never less than two autarchic mandates. The PSD is no longer a government on November 26, 2015, and the responsibility for this monitoring and evaluation has since come to compete with the Socialist Government of António Costa. And so the Socialist Party, in its 2015 Legislative Election Programme, committed itself to reassessing the map that was defined and solving what was understood to be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u107	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u108	Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u109	Last December 28th, 2020, with the Assembly of the Republic on Christmas break and in a framework of strong health restrictions, had to be waited for the Government to enter the bill defining the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of fragesias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u111	That is why there is no doubt that the government has been going all this time just delaying commitments long before. The fact that the Government only refers the bill to the Assembly of the Republic in the last days of 2020, which determines that its discussion and vote takes place in the year in which the elections take place, only reinforces this understanding. And, in addition to all this, the Government states that the work it has done for this bill was carried out in partnership with the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias. Something went wrong, Mrs Minister : it is that these representative associations, by sending to the Assembly of the Republic an opinion which is unfavourable to the Government's proposal, call it unacceptable and point out that it still lacks a clear and deep debate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD has always said that it is available to improve, with adjustments, the current map of the parish that time can have shown us that it should be corrected. The PSD has always said that it should take into account the particularities of the urban parish and the rural parish, taking into account the differences resulting from the coast and the interior of our country. But one thing is the active and firm involvement in this legislative process, another is to contemporanize with a hasty appreciation, which can produce an unwanted revolution on eves of autarchic elections and be denoted as a gesture of electoral campaign. We can and should have understanding for a lot, but it is not possible to have it for everything. Is it necessary to adjust to the reforms of the parish? Most likely. Should it be made in a hurry? No, no, no. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, in this and other matters, continues to defend its usual objectives and is available for a serious and enlightening debate. This is not possible without being duly studied by experts and that all the author and citizen concerned have information that allows them to have an accurate understanding of the meaning, terms and implications of this new legal regime of the parish. We guide ourselves for national interest and will always renounce demagogy, populism and facilitation. That's our line! in this context and in the beginning of a serious and enlightening debate, it would be important for the Government to clarify why it has only now entered this initiative, on the national elections. And since it considers, in this bill, that it should guarantee territorial stability for at least three mandates, I wonder if it does not think that the reform implemented in 2013 should also have the same period of three mandates to stabilize and assess it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration and other members of the Government: The position of principle taken by the NAP on the process of extinction of strawberries, undertaken in 2013 by the Government of then, was always clear. We understand that this was a process which, in several cases, was made « the rule and framework », going beyond the will of local populations and bodies and without taking into account the geographical, demographic, territorial, historical, social and even economic specificities. Although we can say that not everything was bad in this reform, it was very bad. Since the previous legislation that we have been defending the need to ensure a reassessment on a case-by-case basis, which takes into account the criteria ignored in 2013 and which, with balance, responsibility and a technical and political evaluation, can allow the necessary corrections to ensure both a better organization of the territory and a better response of proximity to populations. We have never been in favour of moving from 8 to 80, i.e. from a merger of « the ruler and frame » to a reversal of « the wrong and the right ». This bill, which we are discussing today, contrary to other proposals put before the discussion, is not a proposal for a reversal law, but a proposal for a regime of creation, extinction and modification of fragesias, which eliminates up to an unconstitutionality due to omission which has occurred since 2013. This proposal adopts what we believe to be an intermediate position, with mechanisms that guarantee some balance and responsibility, such as the prediction of a demanding procedure and the requirement for the effectiveness and efficiency of public management, which requires that there be economic and financial viability of the new parish, which therefore also prevents situations of unsustainability. But we believe that there is also a balance here in the brake that prevents further changes in the three autonomous mandates following the creation of a parish. This is also a proposal that prevents an increase in public expenditure by demanding the so-called 'efficiency and efficiency of public management' and by providing that technical support for the new parish must be ensured by both the government and the municipality, and not only by the government as a result of the previous regime. by placing the impetus of the initiative in the hands of local authorities rather than the Assembly of the Republic, this regime also brings a more democratic procedure, although it can, as it proposes, and well, the Left Block, go even further and allow the direct involvement of citizens in the process. At this level, we believe that it is necessary to make progress in the field of expertise and that we will also be available to present our proposals. We leave only a final warning for the need to ensure that this casuistic reversal of freguesis merger does not mean again, as in 2013, a license so that junta presidents can disregard the law of limitation of mandates. For us, it is clear that if there are three consecutive mandates in this position, a parish board president should not compete for one more term only because his duties have been changed in his territory and his designation. That is why we will put forward proposals in the field of expertise in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u114	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ms. Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão, Mr. Secretary of State for decentralization and Local Administration, Jorge Botelho : In December 2012, when the discussion of what would be Law No. 11 -A / 2013, of 26 January, Mrs.Eurídice Pereira reported the Socialist Party's concern at the initiative under consideration. In several subsequent moments, we stated that this Law needed to be reviewed, so many were the complaints of the populations, these complaints that remain until today. It is well-known to all that the Socialist Government has given its attention to local power, strengthening its autonomy, means and competences, to which a very important initiative has been joined, which allows the evaluation of the reorganization of the territory of the parish, in order to correct situations of obvious injury to the populations resulting from the reform carried out in 2013, to the wake of them. Since 2013 there has been a legislative vacuum, which does not allow for creating, modifying or extinguishing frequencies. The Socialist Government honored the commitment made to the French authorities by delivering Law No 68 / XIV / 2 in the Assembly of the Republic. a, last 20 December 2020. In addition to the Government's legislative initiative, Bills No. 151 / XIV / 1 were also introduced. a, PCP, 620 / XIV / 2. a, PEV, and 640 / XIV / 2. a, the BE, which, with differences between themselves, address the same subject, despite some interventions we have heard here today. It is now up to Members to carry out the development of the legislative process, which, because of its importance, deserves further work, without delay and with the participation of all political forces sitting in this Parliament and with the hearing of various entities, from the very outset the representatives of the democratically elected local authorities, who, in turn, should listen to the people, so that the processes which are being delivered in the Assembly of the Republic mirror the safeguarding and defence of the real interests of the people. Freguesa boards are the closest presence of the state among citizens and have a role that, in many cases and territories, as within the country, far exceeds the efficiency of public management. They have a responsibility that develops differently and that has become very relevant at the time of the pandemic that we live in, which is the social responsibility to address the problems of daily life and that is the greater these problems. It should be borne in mind that populations generate a very strong connection with the territory where they were born and where they live. They feel like theirs and there is a sense of loss when decisions are made in relation to these same territories without hearing them and taking their interests into account. This initiative of the Government is of particular importance to the interior areas, which have been deprived of most public services and which, within and through aggregation, have also been able to close the fregetal board, with all the losses that this decision has caused. at this time, it is urgent to return the word to the people and organs elected by them. Many authors have already done their homework and others will do so, so that, after the legislative process that we have now begun, we can appreciate the proposals that will come to us, thus respecting the political will of the people. The Socialist Party intends to reaffirm its respect and consideration for all the autarchs and, in the specific case, for all the autarchs of parish, to whom the country owes so much, which are the first door to which the Fregues often find themselves ignored. We show all the availability for the work we have in front of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u116	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin my speech on the various projects for the creation of parish that we are discussing today with one word, which I believe is the word of order that presides at least some of them, while knowing that it will be chaired by everyone. This word of order is a reversal—reversion of the reform of the parish, carried out in 2013. On this point of order, I would like to say, in order to be absolutely clear and there are no misconceptions, that the CDS is against the reversal of reform. We are faced with a reform which, like any reform, will not have been perfect, but which, yes, has been necessary and, yes, has a very positive balance sheet from our point of view. Eight years after this reform in 2013, less than one year of an authentic election in the middle of a pandemic and an unprecedented social, health and economic crisis, the Government chooses this moment to put this issue back on the table. It is therefore necessary to say—and I would like to say clearly and without lukewarmness—that this is the worst time of all to have this discussion. There are many other more urgent and much more relevant and necessary discussions at this time. Secondly, there are some projects that are of reversal assumed—and that they have this clarity—and there is the government's bill that may or may not be of reversal encapsulated, something that I would like to understand. But let's go to concrete: when we look at the bill, it says it has two essential objectives. Now, with regard to the objectives, I agree, I would like to get some clarifications as to what they are. When it is said that one of the objectives is to "improve the quality of democracy", I absolutely agree. Now, if "improve the quality of democracy" means increasing the number of institutions and, necessarily, increasing the number of parishioners and increasing the number of democratically elected voters in these churches, then the number of elected politicians, in this case, I do not agree with this view. in the same way, when it is said to 'invest in the quality of public services', if this means increasing the number of public services, which necessarily happens if there is a very significant increase in the number of parishes, it is good to be clear that if we significantly increase the number of parishes, what we are doing is to invest in the quality of public services, because we are spending more on electors and institutions than we are spending on services. So I'd like you to explain this to me in a very crystallistic way. We are discussing projects to develop a framework law of creation of freguesas that allows some spot adjustments, either to what happened in 2013 or above all to what is happening, because reality, as is obvious, is not static and the territory and the populations are changing, or are we here discussing projects to duplicate, triple or quadruple the number of freguesas and return to the past situation? It's just that, if it's for that, I'm radically against it. Thirdly, and no less important, we are at risk of transforming the elections in the pure and simple discussion of the map of the city and of the map of the parish. Therefore, I wonder if, to the pious speeches that I always hear against populism and radicalism, we want to join the practice and avoid having discussions with them on autarchical election. It is that there is certainly no better incentive for populism and demagogy than we will be having this discussion on autarchic elections. Finally, I would like to recall the following: decentralization is an objective that we all share, but it is an objective that has been postponed. Theoretically, this year — according to the previous Government of the Socialist Party that said that this was the great reform in 2021 — in January this year, we would already have decentralization of competences for all municipalities. Instead, what we know is that, in terms of health, education and social action, this was postponed to 2022. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been postponed because it is these powers that are the money and move these powers that involve moving into the machine of the central state, and that is exactly what is successively postponed. Without discussing this and without going to that point, I think that, on all other issues, we have, of course, an opening for on-the-spot changes, but we do not have an opening for mass reversals of legislation on fragesias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u118	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are called upon in this debate to take another definitive step in correcting the political mistakes of a government that, for many other reasons too, we do not miss any. I dare state that the famous 'Lei Relvas' will forever be a paradigm of the bad example of legislating against the interests of the people, after all the first reason why we are all here. Of course, because it was taken into practice without citizens, through their representatives, being able to be consulted, without being able to decide on a process which, in many cases, directly implied with the common and particular interests of many Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, my condition as former mayor of Freguesia and municipality allows me to see clearly the loss of identity, the loss of proximity government, the lack of representativeness, the reduction of civic participation, the increase of difficulties or the lower efficiency in the management of resources than the process of aggregation of Freguesia, in a model of 'rule and framework', has resulted. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u120	I am convinced—and the so-called known studies confirm that, contrary to what the PSD/CDS government then advocated, which presented it as a great « reform», there were no gains of any kind. The local authorities, particularly the parish, are the first door open for the population. Clearly, it is the work they are now developing, in this pandemic context, as first aid to citizens and in collaboration with other entities with direct responsibilities in this fight. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u121	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in good time, the Government has referred this diploma to this House. What the Government now submits to us is precisely what should have been done at that time, a legal device that respects only the autonomy of the local power and the will of the people involved in the creation of the parish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u122	And everything was going to be the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u123	I would like to stress from the outset that the proposal for a law that is referred to us, based on the conclusions of the report submitted by the technical group for the definition of criteria for the evaluation of the reorganization of the territory of the parish, comes from a work carried out in partnership with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguess and provides for the mandatory participation of the local organs covered, seeking better to ensure territorial stability. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was on the basis of the expectation created and the commitment that much work has already been done by the previous Government of the Socialist Party and that it is now important to adjust, in the real interest of autarchs and populations, thus defining criteria that promote a just reorganization, thus correcting injustices practised. The Socialist Party recognises the importance of the service that is provided to the people and the development promoted by the councils and assemblies of parish and will do everything necessary to achieve a fair, participatory administrative reorganization, and that it lacks an in-depth discussion, always reconciling the past and the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u124	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Has there been extinction of frequencies against local local authorities? There! Was there — and is there still — a significant distance between the population and local organs? There! But in the heat of a number of elections in which the PS did not participate, on last Sunday, the PS now wants to present itself with an authentic reform when there are only a few months left for the local elections. I recall a title of 5 June 2015 — 5 June 2015, Mrs. Members — in which António Costa says: « The PS will be committed to reviewing and reversing the extinction of the fragesias». We were in 2015. One, two, three, four, five, six years passed and fell—for God's sake! — at the door of the local authorities for this reform to come to Parliament. This is the worst service we do to the citizens, to make reforms of "rule and framework" to think of the elected people we are going to have in a few months, to draw attention to each other saying that we have lost a few ferries but now we can come to gain them... nobody wants to know about the proximity between politicians and their voters, they want to know about places in the nearby city.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u126	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u127	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why it is understood that a reform that has some potential is stained with the proximity of autarchic elections on the horizon. And the whole country realizes that there is only one goal: to increase the election of the Socialist Party and the Communist Party in these forthcoming elections. They won't make it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u128	You now have the floor to ask Mr Minister, who will then speak at the end of the debate, Mr José Maria Cardoso, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u129	Mr President, Mrs Minister, in a very telegraphic way, I would like to ask you two or three points. First of all, we disagree with what is presented in the explanatory statement when it says that it is an "expedited rectification of immediate incorrections of the 2013 territorial reform". Do you really think that this 2013 reform can be repaired with small corrections? We believe that there must be a structure of the law that is at stake and that is at stake, to enable its rectification and not small details. I refer to two or three very important points, of what is presented here. One of the requirements for the provision of services to the population is the existence of at least one health extension. Do you think it is the competence of the parish board or of the population of a parish have or do not have a health center? Oh, my God! If that were the case, they would all have a health center, of course. It is not within its scope. For example, Article 6. o — Effectiveness and efficiency of public administration, which means'minimum participation in the Frequencies Financing Fund corresponding to 30 % of the value of that fund allocated to the parish or parish giving it origin'? Have you seen what is 30 %, the impossibility that this creates for a fregetal union, for an aggregation that has three, four, five aggregates? It becomes impossible to meet this criterion. Finally, I wanted to say that there is an appreciation here that cannot be forgotten. The question of qualified majority does not make any sense, Minister. Why do you make a qualified majority? Is that a specific question? We can even take the risk, and the ridiculous thing, of having a session that can work, because it has a quorum — 50 % plus one — and then it cannot vote, because it does not have a qualified majority of its members. We can even get to that ridiculous thing! But then... [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] No, no, no! I'm sorry. Then we have Article 22. the, which opens the way to the possibility of the recovery of extinct frequencies, one of the fundamental reasons for this same situation. Article 22. It opens that way. It's just that, then, that way, or that opening...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u130	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u131	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, this opening of Article 22. it is apparent, because even this article, then, refers to equal procedures in all situations, i.e., it does not create conditions for this to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u132	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u133	Finally, I ask, as ANAFRE suggests in its critical opinion, whether the PS and the Government are available to create a transitional regime for these situations of reversal of the parish. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u134	You have the floor, too, to request clarification from the Government, the Member of the CFP Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u135	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would just like to ask you this question: is there indeed a government's willingness to include a transitional standard—or how it is intended to be designated, because it is not what matters, what matters is its content—so that, in fact, it can be given to the parishians, the populations, the local bodies who believe that their parish should be restored, that it should indeed be restored, that it is not obliged to comply with the set of criteria proposed by the Government in its proposal and that it does not effectively allow the creation of these frequencies and prevent such replacement?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u136	The Socialist Party still has time and has asked to intervene. You have the floor, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u137	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: In conclusion, it brings me to this intervention the need to hold a consensus on this subject, a political consensus and also a consensus which, in addition to political agreement, becomes a text of a necessary framework law, pressing for the stabilization and legal security of the parish in Portugal. The territory of France is perhaps the one that tells the most populations that most lack the presence of the state and the public figure in their lands. That is why this same territory must be protected by a stable, secure law that is not involved in matters of minor importance, inaccuracies and, therefore, that it itself is a security beyond the territory, for the citizens. I understand well when the CDS comes to tell this House, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, that it is against the reversal, that it is against the reversal whatever it is, that it opens any territory, whatever it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u138	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u139	I understand that the CDS is against more public services and the increase in public services, in particular those people and those territories that lack public services. I understand that the CDS is against the reopening of the post office station, the reopening of post offices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u140	But are we discussing that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u141	... that it is against the reopening of the health extension, the reopening of the parish board that normally provides a service to support the citizen in his relationship, for example, with the finances. I get it! And the people understand better than me. That is why the party of V. Exa has come to have the confidence of the people as we all recognize.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u142	In 2015! Are we gonna talk about that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u143	What I think is that, in this House, we need to build the legislative building that contemplates the participation of people, which includes the participation of people's representatives, particularly in the local bodies, which includes participation in municipal bodies and also that includes participation in State sovereignty bodies, with a view to the contribution and contribution of all these bodies. That is why, on behalf of the Socialist Party, I must warn of a factor: if we do not achieve this consensus, it will be an injury to the people, to the parish and to the territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u144	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u145	I conclude by saying that it is our purpose to work not on the basis of our political-party attempts, but on behalf of the people, the territories and also the parish. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u146	Two requests for clarification have been made to the Minister, who now has the opportunity to respond. To that end, Mr. Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u147	Mr. President and Mr. Members, starting with the questions that have been addressed directly to me, and then weaving some considerations on several things that have been said here, would begin by telling Mr José Maria Cardoso the following: the question that you asked specifically about the extension of health is framed in an article that determines a set of nine criteria, of which only five must be found, and in which the only two who have necessarily to check are the guarantee of having the minimum of one worker and having a seat. In other words, the only two requirements that are mandatory are effectively dependent on the parish rather than on the central administration. All the others are optional, enough to be checked out five out of nine. So that is not the question. On the other hand, I would like to say to Mrs Paula Santos that the Assembly of the Republic is sovereign in order to, in a work which would be discussed and calmly, of course, include what is well understood in the diploma. I would, however, like to say that the Government has submitted a bill to the Assembly of the Republic which it considers balanced, including in the financial aspects which Mrs Cecilia Meireles has mentioned. He drew his attention to Article 6. that of the proposed law, which has a criterion of effectiveness and efficiency in public management, which must take account of the financial viability of the new parish and which it must have a minimum participation of 30 % in the FEF, in the Fund for the Financing of Fregues. Therefore, there is care here about various concerns. But there is, in fact, a central concern. And the first concern of this bill is to cover the legislative gap of this absence of general and abstract criteria. Let me tell whoever talks about the distribution of places that if there is something that guarantees non-distribution and non-definition, in particular, for one or another, is the existence of general and abstract criteria. That is what we defend to say that in one case we will do this and in another case we will get roasted. On the contrary, in 2013 it was made from top to bottom with an annex containing what was added without having great criteria. Then, yes, we can ask why it was those and not others. Therefore, the first objective of this bill is to create general and abstract criteria, which will then apply to the future. Secondly, it is also the objective of this proposal to respect local populations, heard through their democratically elected representative bodies. And here I can tell the PSD Member Isura Morais that if it is true that the ANMP opinion on this matter is not entirely favourable it is because she believes that the diploma should have a more immediate reversal of the PSD / CDS proposal. Therefore, it is not surprising that the reason here is « face-to-face », that the opinion of ANMP is not entirely favourable, either because we do not make such a huge and immediate reversal of your « reform ». That's exactly what ANMP says. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, no one here defends more places, but rather defends more presence of the State, so that people do not feel abandoned, especially in areas within. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And now, on this distribution of seats, you are accusing the government of distributing places that are democratically elected by the people only if, as Mr de la Chega says, you are waiting for the PS to win the local elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u148	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u149	That is the only way to understand that this is what the honourable Member understands by distribution of seats. So what is at issue here is a bill — I repeat and to conclude — that we consider balanced in its various general and abstract criteria and not done by anyone. The proposal, of course, now lacks a debate in the Assembly of the Republic, sovereign for the final decision, which will naturally entail respect for the wishes of the people and also criteria which guarantee stability, efficiency and minimum adherence to the territory itself, so that we do not, in fact, leave local people abandoned, the result of a reform made from above to below. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u150	The CFP requested the floor for an intervention. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u151	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to ask whether there is any other parliamentary group that wishes to speak, because we, the CFP, are speaking immediately before the end of the debate by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u152	Madam Member, what I can tell you is that at the moment the Bureau does not register any other entries.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u153	So I hope that no one else joins, because there are parties that still have time and, if they wish, they must register now, before we speak. That's why I'm asking the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u154	You are absolutely right, Mrs Paula Santos. The Bureau cannot ensure what it cannot assure, but the honourable Member is right. Unless...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u155	You may ask the PSD and the PAN if they intend to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u156	If Mrs. Deputy gave me permission... As I was saying, unless any of the other parliamentary groups indicates their willingness to sign up. Unless...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u157	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u158	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u159	Mr President, the PSD cannot guarantee this from now on because it does not know what Mrs Paula Santos is going to say in her speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u160	Mr. Carlos Peixoto, as you know better than I do, because of the practice that is established, the CFP in this case has indeed the right to be the last political force to intervene, and therefore the claim of Mrs. Paula Santos is legitimate. There is no doubt about this, so I just wanted to ask the PSD to clarify its position.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u161	Mr President, clarifying what the PSD can say is that it will not spend all the time replying to Mrs Paula Santos, then giving her the time remaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u162	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u163	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u164	Mr President, I think the question is very simple: if Mrs Paula Santos is going to use the floor for the closing of the debate, then there is no intervention of any kind. Therefore, Mrs Paula Santos' question is relevant, asking whether anyone wants to use the word before she makes the closing intervention. If the answer is negative, there can be no questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u165	Exactly. It is all very clear and therefore has the floor to Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u166	All right, Mr President, I appreciate your attention. at this moment, at the close of the debate, we would also like to say the following: we have seen here, by the PSD and the CDS, in fact, a victimization in relation to this discussion, seeking to whitewash what their responsibilities are for the extinction of thousands of phregueses in our country against the will of the people, ignoring, including, statements made in the local organs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u167	Talk about this proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u168	... in which they argued that their parish should not be extinct and still have extinguished it. We also understand that they do not want to discuss this matter—in particular the CDS, which made this reference—because it recalls the adjustment of accounts that they wanted to make with the democratic regime of our Revolution, moving the voters, the populations, from their electors. There are numerous people throughout the country who tell us that they have no contact with the elected members of their parish. The need and urgency that is placed on the table by the people is in fact to respect their positions. No one wants to revert to the « rule and framework », what one wants is only to respect the will of the people and respect the decisions of the local bodies. The proposal that the CFP brings is in this direction and the question that is being raised is just this: the CFP is available to find solutions; the question is what the PS wants, if indeed, to meet the demands of the people and solve this problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u169	Ah! So, okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u170	... or if you intend to impose a set of taxes which, in fact, prevent the reversal of the parish where that is the will of the people. This is the debate and this is the question that needs to be answered in order to solve the problem that is being posed and that is, in fact, a feeling of loss...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u171	Loss is from your electors!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u172	... in the territory of our country from north to south, from the coast to the interior, in which the populations do not feel identified and intend to regain their parish and count on the PCP in this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u173	To close this debate, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, I wanted to say that populism is to reduce people's will to a distribution of places and, above all, to a distribution of democratically elected places. Approaching the administration of populations is also decentralization—it is even decentralising—and increasing social and territorial cohesion. Therefore, it is not seen how someone who claims to defend decentralization can now come to understand that the creation and approval of general and abstract criteria, which enables people to meet the will of their populations and to create the presence of the State among them, whether that arises only for populist, demagogic or electoral reasons. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom the Government, fulfilling its Government Programme, has submitted this bill and now hopes that in a fruitful debate within Parliament it will be approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u175	We have concluded the debate on the third item of our agenda. We will then enter the fourth point, which consists in the general discussion of the Bill No 70 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — establishes a system for the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines resulting from the measures adopted under the COVID-19 pandemic. To present this initiative of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice Mário Morgado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in March of the past year, very restrictive measures were taken of the activity of the justice system. But soon in June it was possible to start the normalization process and resume, on the basis of two fundamental measures: the cessation of the exceptional suspension regime of deadlines and the termination, in non-emergency, of the suspension regime of hearings and other proceedings. However, the current escalation of the pandemic crisis now calls for the application of new exceptional measures. The bill we are presenting today is shaped by two major concerns, which have tried to harmonize in the best way. On the one hand, to adopt measures that really contribute to avoiding proliferation of contagios; on the other hand, considering that the functionality of the justice system is based on the balance between the number of processes entered and ended, it is intended to ensure the realization of all acts that may take place, depending on the criteria of reasonableness. the proposed measures deserve to highlight the suspension of the deadlines for the practice of non-emergency and the processing of urgent proceedings, together with a series of other exceptions, in order to mitigate the effects of the general rule of suspension, in particular the processing in the higher courts of non-emergency proceedings where there are conditions to ensure the practice of procedural acts by electronic means or by means of distance communication; the processing of non-emergency proceedings where all parties intend to have the conditions to ensure their practice by electronic means or by means of distance communication; the extension of final decision when courts and other entities do not consider it necessary to carry out new proceedings. With regard to urgent proceedings, proceedings shall continue to be handled without suspension or interruption of deadlines, acts or inquiries as follows: in the proceedings requiring the physical presence of the parties, their agents or other interveners, the practice of the acts shall, as a rule, be carried out by means of distance communication. Where this is not possible, the conduct of these proceedings may take place at present, competing with the court in order to ensure that it is carried out in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the health authorities and by the higher councils of the judiciary. Consider, it is made clear that urgent procedures and procedures are those which, by law or by decision of the judicial authority, are considered as such: where the defence of rights, freedoms and guarantees is involved in the face of any unconstitutional or illegal provisions and, in general, the processes that are necessary to avoid irreparable damage or hard repair. Finally, it should be noted that, among others, the limitation and expiry periods relating to the cases where the suspension takes place are also suspended; the deadlines for the practice of acts in notary and conservatory narratives; the procedures for counter-ordination, sanctions and disciplinary procedures and certain administrative and tax procedures with regard to the practice of acts by individuals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, until the outbreak of the current pandemic crisis, the statistics of justice showed very positive results in all the courts. To deal with the pandemic, the Ministry of Justice has so far spent almost EUR 1 million on personal protective equipment and products and has been set up a service bag for cleaning and deinfesting spaces, with contracts made so far amounting to more than EUR 5 million. In all the districts, some inadequacies of hearing rooms were suppressed, resorting to spaces outside the courts and strengthened the means for performing remote diligence, now being available646 virtual videoconferencing rooms. The cycle we now live is particularly demanding and confronts us with multiple challenges. We will face the difficulties and then, with all determination, we will return to normalize the situation and resume the path that had been taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u177	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u178	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: The evolution of the epidemiological situation in our country and the need to contain the contagions unfortunately forced us to a new period of confinement and with this also a readjustment of the functioning of the courts, which is indeed essential. And in the range of restrictive measures there is, of course, the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines, so as not to prejudice the fundamental rights of citizens and, above all, to ensure public safety and health, also in the courts and in the judicial context. in this sense, we follow, in general terms, the proposal that is brought to us by the government and which carries out this suspension, not only because it safeguards the fundamental rights that have to be guarded here, in line with the regime of the previous confinement, but also because it guarantees the non-suspension of procedures and procedures in very complex and sensitive situations such as those relating to the rights of children, including those involving minors at risk, and with possible irreparable damage or damage to rights, freedoms and guarantees. We hope that this non-suspension is also mirrored in the articulation with the other ministries, particularly in that which is then the intervention of CPCGs (protection committees for children and young people), because effectively ensuring the well-being of these children must be a priority. in this debate, we regret, however, the time that the government has taken for this suspension to gain form and be brought to this Assembly of the Republic, taking into account the discrepancy that exists in relation to the announcement that was made by the Prime Minister on 21 January. Since then, the courts have in fact been in a state of complete disregard, in view of the lack of a legal basis in order to promote the postponement of procedural proceedings. This proposal is in some way putting an end to this disunity and preventing injustice and inequality in access to law. But we must ensure the retroactive application of the suspension, particularly at the time of the announcement by the Government itself, and we will therefore follow the proposals put forward by other political forces in this House and which go in that direction. from the NAP, once this proposal has been analysed and the contributions that some associations have made to us, it seems to us that it is indeed necessary to ensure that some errors or inaccuracies of the similar regime that have been in place last year, in particular those that may be the autonomous references to the pre-contractual dispute, which make no sense, because in the light of the CPTA ( Code of Procedure in Administrative Courts ), we are talking about urgent processes that already fall within the scope of Article 6 ( 7 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020, of 19 March, in the version of the bill, and therefore, in the name of the rigor of concepts, do not lack an autonomous reference. from there we propose this same amendment. Also in the name of rigor and the defence of fundamental rights, it seems important to us that this scheme should prevent the procedures, acts and procedures from being considered as urgent by the judicial authority's decision, a reference which, rather than giving rise to interpretative doubts, may allow, outside the applicable legal framework, to qualify processes, acts and procedural difficulties as urgent, without a sufficiently weighted legal basis. Besides, this law that we are going to approve here already qualifies as urgent...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u179	Madam Member, I would like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u180	I am even concluding, Mr President. As I said, the law that we are going to approve here already qualifies as urgent a number of processes, so that escape valve does not appear necessary. It is important to make it clear that a process or any procedural diligence can only be urgent when there is, in fact, legal empowerment in this regard. We therefore propose a set of changes that are quite surgical.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u181	Mr Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u182	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice, as time is short, I leave three very telegraphic questions, the first of which is the following: how is the administrative process left? That is, will the legal secretaries of non-emergency proceedings be able to continue or will they also be suspended? On the other hand, as to the difficulties that must be made and that will be done by means of computers, we can both have cases in which these inquiries can be made, even urgent cases, as well as others in which it can be done by means of computers can cause damage to the activity of justice and therefore there should also be room for them not to be carried out. Finally, I refer to the question of the Constitutional Court. The deadlines of the Constitutional Court are not sufficiently prejudiced in this proposal. Despite the specificity of the scheme, there are deadlines that also have to be guarded, and it was important to know how this process remains in terms of equalization of proposals, especially if we want an integrated global regime of the higher courts for all types of processes, including for non-judicial processes, such as those in conservatories, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u183	You now have the floor on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Monica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Thursday, Mr Prime Minister announced the suspension of the legal deadlines, with effect from the following day. These unskilled statements caused chaos in the courts. There were judges who deferred proceedings, others who refused to postpone, deadlines that remained to be met, citizens who were lacking in court, in an atmosphere of absolutely undesirable uncertainty and insecurity, which caused serious damage to the citizens and protest of the forum's professionals. It is therefore necessary that the legislation which has been adopted on the suspension of deadlines and proceedings should have retroactive effects on 22 January, the day announced by the Prime Minister of that suspension. With the tragic period that the country passes, it is necessary to reconcile the safeguard of the right to life and health with the right to justice. The proposed law submitted by the Government on suspension of deadlines does not ensure the balance between the rights in question and therefore the PSD submitted a proposal aimed at protecting citizens' health and, cumulatively, allowing access to law and justice. With the pandemic reaching gross levels, health protection is fundamental, restricting the presenceal diligences in courts and other entities to the absolutely indispensable. But we well know that judgments are public and that must proceed to the open door, except for the exceptions provided for in the law, to allow the democratic scrutiny of the production of evidence and the decision on it to fall. Advertising of judgments also has a dissuasive effect on the community, carrying out the purposes of general prevention. None of this is possible to fully achieve with telecasts. A trial is a solemn act, with its own ritual and symbolism, in which black toys and scholarships give expression to the austere moment when a citizen is judged by his peers. In the trials, the witnesses, inquired experts, heard the parties and ascertained all the evidence that will allow the court to decide on one side of the dispute, which, not rarely, is of vital importance to the litigants. Sometimes disputes in a lifetime are at stake. In order for the court to be empowered to decide, it must take advantage of the principles of immediateness and orality and this is only possible with the presence of judgements. We therefore do not fully follow the Government's proposal, which provides that trials are usually carried out by videoconferencing, making the courts function in this way in full pandemic. A trial, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a meeting for Zoom, it's not a webinar. A videoconferencing does not allow the contradiction or acquainting of witnesses or, for example, the confrontation with documents. Generalizing the conduct of tele-judgments, as if they were any tele-work, is to underestimate the role of courts as sovereign bodies and amplify citizens' access to justice and courts. Moreover, before the trial, there is all this work that requires contact between representatives and parties and these with witnesses, contacts, these absolutely prohibitive ones in the current context and that may pose a danger to the lives of citizens. However, we prevent the possibility of making videoconferencing inquiries, such as prior hearings or conciliation attempts, provided that all parties agree. We consider it essential for the realization of justice, in particular for the recovery of expectations, in the economic aspect, that certain acts which do not lack the presence of the actors may be practiced. Judgments and appeals may be made by the competent remedies and the higher courts may continue to work, minimizing the damage caused by the pandemic. What guided the PSD proposal was the commitment between safeguarding the health of citizens and other procedural actors, on the one hand, and the possibility of the practice of acts that allow the possible functioning of the judicial system, mitigating the serious effects that paralysis necessarily leads to. Given the balance of our proposal, we have no doubt that it will be welcomed and voted in favour of the other parliamentary groups. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u185	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor to speak on a matter which you know well. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The suspension of deadlines for the practice of procedural and procedural acts in proceedings that run in the various courts of the judiciary is a measure notified in the context of the fight against the giantism of the COVID-19 pandemic these days. The preservation of the health of all judicial operators and individuals who refer to the courts must be the priority of priorities. And while it is clear that this decision will entail serious costs for the defence of rights and for the legal security of people, it is of minimum good sense that we take it as a matter of urgency. The balance between the rule of suspension, the exceptions of urgency and the consecration of the use of digital platforms for the realization of various procedural acts seems to us in general correct. The Left Block presents a set of amendments which do not call into question the essential of these balances and which aim to improve on time the regime adopted by the bill, following, to a large extent, suggestions made by the Trade Union Association of Portuguese Judges. This said, there are two warnings that the Left Block does not want to stop doing in this circumstance and both are related to what we learn with a measure similar to this taken in the first wave of the pandemic. The first warning is that, in the context of defence of the health of judicial operators, the protection of judicial officials cannot be relegated to the background. It is absolutely essential that there be no false justifications for creating exceptions to the rule of telework and it is essential that those officials who guarantee the present services — attention, assistance or external service — be considered as essential staff for vaccination purposes. The second warning concerns lawyers, applicants and implementing agents. The measures now proposed by the Government will mean a return to the months when a large number of these professionals have been deprived of their income, without the State or its social security system — the CPAS (Advocacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants) — having adopted social support measures identical to those taken for the other self-employed. The discussion on the future of this welfare system is under way in this House, but whatever the developments in this discussion may be, it is absolutely unacceptable that the situation of deprotection which occurred last spring is now repeated. The CPAS and the Government shall ensure that no lawyer, solicitor or executing agent shall be without support for their income in this framework of return to a close-to-close court. Health is preserved, rights are defended, the social rule of law is enforced. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u187	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Once again we return to the discussion on the need to suspend deadlines to ensure the health of those involved in proceedings, but also, of course, the functioning of justice within the framework of the pandemic in which we are present. A first note, which I think it is important to highlight, and which I think is underlying the interventions of all, is that this is not a political option taken freely, with a view to changing the assumptions under which the courts operate. We are bound by an imperative need to try to cause the minimum of damage to the functioning of justice, seeking to ensure the normal functioning as possible of the judicial system and to ensure the fundamental principles that guide it, bearing in mind, of course, the many conditions to which we are all bound. We all know the inadequacies of the responses, because they will not be able to prevent and allow us to function normally. This must be the first point to be made so that we are absolutely clear before all of us and also before the various judicial operators who will be called to apply these rules. But, above all, as I said, it is important to ensure the safety of all actors — judges, lawyers, parties, defendants, witnesses — when they have to travel to the court, in cases where this is the case, and also to ensure that the courts function, thus, once again, the imperatives arising from the declaration of the state of emergency. Sovereignty bodies must continue to function for what is essential and to ensure, themselves, directly, compliance with what is decreed in the state of emergency and to ensure that the legal order remains robust in the context of the state of emergency. In fact, this is what we do right here in the Assembly of the Republic, ensuring that this sovereignty body also continues to function and continues to provide answers to the citizens. As has been mentioned, essentially, these measures are based on the suspension of deadlines and due diligence and the suspension of expiry and limitation periods for the protection of legal certainty and to try to ensure that, as far as possible, this hiatus of the functioning of the legal order or of the courts. That is the rule, but of course it is recognized that it is necessary to take into account a set of exceptions to be able to practice those acts which are indispensable: the higher courts may continue to process electronically; the practice of acts by remote means when there are conditions and agreement of the parties to ensure that, in the circumstances in which everyone agrees, it can continue; ensure that final decisions can be given, but above all, ensure that urgent proceedings, acts and diligences, those which are already classified as urgent in the law and those that this own diploma also identifies as being considered urgent because it is concerned with the survival of citizens' lives and is also at stake, for example, the application, as mentioned recently, of the state of emergency, are cautious and also possible, or remotely, now at present, when the remote way is not possible, provided that the health conditions for this to be achieved. In any event, caution is made when the 70-year-olds, the immunodepressed, chronic patients are protected with regard to any travel they may have to make, ensuring that they can perform intervention through a safe place, especially using videoconferencing. in this debate, the Socialist Party is still presenting some amendments, since today we will have to give this response with urgency, focusing essentially on four or five points. First of all, as proposed by the PSD, that the Constitutional Court should also be covered, it is important to exempt acts relating to the completion of the presidential election on 24 January. They should not be suspended so that final clearance can be made. Secondly, we propose also to introduce the retroactivity of these standards for a matter of clarity, i.e. it is naturally understandable for all judicial operators that a law cannot be produced within 24 hours and therefore, of course, today was inevitable, but to ensure cross-cutting certainty in all legal order, the only way to do so is to ensure that the criterion is the same for all and for that reason we also proposed this amendment. Thirdly, and on a subject that is related to this, we believe that this is the opportunity to resolve the doubts that exist about the possibility of remote conduct of condominium assemblies. That is, it is a theme that has worried many places in the country, especially when they are of great size, and it seems to us that you can, with this formula, have this possibility of, in a mixed model or in a video conference model, also solve it. The matter relating to a specific administrative procedure which must be exempted, which is the matter of the 5G invitation to tender, which is under way and which should not be left behind in this context, is also added. Finally, and even though the subject is not exactly the same, but also, once again, given the urgency, some provisions should be taken into account that allow the ongoing vaccination process to allow some data crossing to access the contacts of people who have to be mobilized to be contacted in order to be included in the groups that are to be vaccinated. Therefore, giving this legal credential is fundamental right now. I conclude by noting the following: Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' theme of social protection is very relevant and important, but he stressed that in the State budget, on the proposal of the Socialist Party, it has already been corrected in part, i.e. we will have new instruments at the moment that we did not have at the last time and therefore it is better than the previous framework, although it is not yet perfect. In fact, much of the proposals put forward by the Bloc, the PCP, the PSD and the other parties deserve our agreement because they improve the diploma. Of course, then, the choice for a drafting or other is derived from the systematic rather than from political options. But I think that, essentially, in relation to most of them we agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u189	Would you like to conclude, Mr President, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u190	Mr President, I conclude by making just one brief comment. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is right about the pre-contractual dispute, so we will follow this proposal. On the issue of the urgent judicial decision, which stems from a court decision, it is not an exception that is invented, i.e. cases where the law itself already admits that the judge can declare that urgency. Therefore, we are not creating an exhaust valve, on the contrary, we are only predicting situations in which urgency does not arise directly from the law, but rather comes from a judicial order, in terms where it already prevails, which is why we do not follow this proposal. Thank you very much for your condescendence, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u191	On behalf of the CFP, Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The need for legal measures to regulate the functioning of the courts during this complex period we are going through is unquestionable. It is recognised by all, and the Assembly and the country have been alerted to this need by several judicial agents, who have drawn attention to the need for health measures and also to appropriate legislative measures to deal with this situation. in which, of course, we recognise the urgency of this legislative measure and also our agreement that this exceptional regime is adopted that we can make the general debate and vote in the speciality so that the overall final vote can still be carried out today, since the exceptionality of the situation requires exceptionality in the adoption of the legislative process that is necessary. There are fundamental values here to safeguard. From then on, the health security of professionals working in the courts, the judicial magistrates, the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judicial officials and, of course, also the users of justice, the people who have to travel to the courts. It is therefore necessary to safeguard the health security of the workplaces and, of course, of the people who would have to travel, so that courts should only function in what is strictly necessary to be done at present. Then there is obviously to be taken into account the value of legal certainty and justice, that is, justice cannot be confined. Justice has to work, but it has to work under the conditions in which it is possible to operate, safeguarding what is absolutely unacceptable. And this requires, in fact, very precise measures which can reconcile the necessary health security with the indispensable legal certainty, which, if it is not careful, will be a contentious factor in the future, which, of course, is to be avoided. Having said that, and with regard to the question of principle, which is the absolute need for measures to be taken, it is important to draw attention to two problems which are raised here and which, in our view, deserve adequate weighting. The first has to do with the conditions for obtaining testimony from witnesses and assistants in proceedings that have to be carried out or because the provision provided for in the agreement of all actors with regard to their non-existence and also the situations laid down in the bill may be obtained in a non-existenceal manner. So the question we want to raise is this: the possibility of such statements is foreseen here, provided that they are in a court or in another public building. It is this reference to another public building which raises questions for us. We understand — and I think that this is understandable — that, as Mrs Mónica Quintela said very well, the procedural acts, namely the inquiry of witnesses or the defendants, should not be done by videoconferencing, because this irremediably calls into question the genuine nature of the statements that are made. No one guarantees that, in a distant statement...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u193	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u194	Mr President, I conclude very quickly. As I said, no one guarantees that, in a distant testimony, the witness is not being directed by another entity. It seems to us that these statements, when they have to be made in legal terms, should take place in the building of a court in which this is controlled, because being in a 'public building' is very vast. Therefore, we believe that such openness is not appropriate. Mr President, the last question I wanted to address is that of retroactivity. This raises a lot of questions because, in fact, the acts have not been suspended. The Prime Minister's statement, by itself, does not mean the suspension of legal deadlines, acts practiced and others which have not been. And a retroactivity without more is likely to create many difficulties and much litigation in the future. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the solution proposed by the CFP is indeed that this retroactivity is not absolute and that the suspension takes into account situations where there has been a fair impediment, namely by disease, prophylactic isolation or family assistance. In other words, the practice of these acts, because there are acts that have been practiced, is considered justified with a justification, otherwise it would seem to us that it is very feared to adopt a retroactivity without any limitation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u195	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that I have to say about this is that it is important to talk about what is at stake here and not about other things. And what is at stake here, in fact, is the need to suspend legal deadlines and to find rules for this, in the face of a need for general confinement, which I think is obvious and is accepted, or at least generally accepted, by the parties that either voted in favour or at least did not abstain in the last votes of these states of emergency. Such seems to be undisturbed to us, but mixing it with a discussion about the CPAS, or anything else, or even, Mr. Secretary of State, let me tell you, what they have done and what they have bought and I don't know what... What I am interested in what they have done and what they have bought? We're talking about suspending the deadlines! I have already said several times that it is always appropriate to avoid the temptation to 'do this, we did this' and some propaganda when the measure is obvious and necessary. Moreover, with regard to this measure, it should be said that it, like many other things, demonstrates only the complete imparability of the government to respond to the problems and its total inability to anticipate. It happened in education, where first they could not close schools, then they could be closed; there could be no distance classes, there must finally be distance classes. And it also happened in relation to the courts. This is because the Prime Minister announces, but the Prime Minister's announcement, in itself, does not lead to the suspension of any deadline, as is evident; a diploma is needed. And the diploma appears here a week or more a week later, with, obviously, all the confusion that arose between judges to postpone, others not to delay, lawyers not knowing what to do, etc. It seems to me that these measures are necessary. We have all heard, yesterday, what was said in the debate and heard, at night, Mr President of the Republic say that we have to stay at home, that there is no other chance. In fact, it is necessary to ensure, clearly, the safety of those who have to carry out what is urgent, to delineate the map of what is urgent and to ensure that the essential thing continues to work, but of course, by complying with the rules of protection, to which not only the courts but all citizens are obliged, taking away what is strict, such as Parliament, the courts in urgent cases, etc. In view of this, the only thing to say is that, at the time the Prime Minister made the announcement, the diploma had to be prepared, or that it would not be used, for that moment and time, as is evident. That's what it's called ruling, and that's what it's called predicting. It appeared a week later, it caused a lot of confusion. That's why we, understanding the reservations and trying to avoid confusion... I also say that it is necessary to safeguard the decisions that have been taken so far, that is, those who, seeking to correspond to the Prime Minister's announcement, have begun to suspend. There can be no harm in this, but there must also be a safeguard of the acts and the time limits which have meanwhile taken and must be safeguarded in the midst of this. The law therefore has to go back on January 21 or 22, when the declaration was made, because in the meantime it was allowed a period in which some confusion arose. This is our position on the subject. This is also what we propose in the amendments we tabled. Basically, this is basically what we defend, recognizing the need for this diploma, which came late in relation to the announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u197	To close this item on our agenda, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr. Mário Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have listened more carefully to the statements made by all Members and by all Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Telmo Correia, allow me to explain to you, with all due respect, the connection that exists between the regime of suspension of the deadlines and the procedures and the conditions which I have set out that the courts have to be able to operate, in particular in terms of compliance with the health conditions and the means of operation at a distance, because one thing conditions the other. The more health conditions and the greater the government's investment in distance communication means, the greater the possibility of, despite all care and cautions to prevent contagions, keeping the courts working at the highest possible level. On the other hand, and when it is impossible to mention all the speeches, given the time available, let me point out that, of course, the proposed law will be enriched with all the contributions made by this debate, in general, by all the benches of the parliamentary groups. It is not possible to refer to all, for example, the proposal not to suspend the time limits for the appeal, for the appeal of nullities or for the request for rectification in cases where the final decision is preferred in the courts. With the adoption of this bill, it will be preserved in its essential aspects — we are absolutely convinced of it — the functioning of justice. We will all meet the demands of the difficult time we are going through. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u199	We are therefore finishing this fourth point of our agenda. We therefore extend farewells to the members of the Government. We will therefore enter into the fifth point where the assessment of Decree-Law No 33 -A / 2020 of 2 July which proceeds to public ownership through the nationalization of the social participation held by Winterfell 2 Limited in Efacec Power Solutions, SGPS, S.A. [ Parliamentary assessments Nos 25 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 24 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) ]. To present the parliamentary assessment required by the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Efacec Group is an important industrial group with over decades presence in Portugal, which brings together the means of production, technology and technical skills for the development of its activities covering the fields of energy solutions, engineering, environment, transport, automation and electrical mobility, with a network of subsidiaries and agents in various countries. With around 2500 highly qualified workers, Efacec is one of the most important industrial companies in the country, and in its current format is the last company — several that have been privatized or destroyed over the years in Portugal — with a clearly strategic industrial intervention area still in operation and which assumes, in practice, an intervention in the replacement of imports by national production, and also the last large metal and electromechanical company in the country. Efacec adds the means of production, technology and technical skills for the development of integrated solutions, design and manufacturing, general rule marked by a high quality standard, in the fields of energy, engineering, transport, environment, automation and electrical mobility, with strong presence and intervention in multiple geography. It is also clear the strategic importance of this company for the North region, for our country and for national production. The structural difficulties of Efacec arising from a national policy which, as a rule and in industry, does not promote the substitution of imports by national production, the problems related to both the shareholder structure and the pressure of creditors and the bank are also added. These difficulties have also increased over several months with the impact of the epidemic. The PS government announced the nationalization of the Efacec Group, in order to re-deliver private capital, as well as identify Law Decree No 33 -A / 2020, which, in fact, motivated this parliamentary assessment. This is a wrong option not only because of the strategic importance of this company and its production — the work carried out by Efacec is of enormous importance in national production, particularly in the north of the country, being interconnected with dozens of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises working with it — but also because this reprivatization will mean the dismissal of hundreds of workers. The latest news points to the dismissal of 500 workers, which means that all this scenario is absolutely unacceptable. The PS Government is creating all the conditions for the company, like many others, in the past, to be delivered to foreign economic or financial groups, with profit maximizing objectives that are contrary to the defence of the national production and development needs of the country. All this with the risks of decharacterization or even destruction of the company, as it was with other companies in our country, being one of the most flagrant examples of Sorefame (Sorefame Reunion Societies of Metal Manufactures), whose invoice of its disappearance we still pay. For the PCP, all measures must be taken to ensure the continuity of the company's activity, to ensure all jobs and to place Efacec's production at the service of the development needs of the North and Country. More than solving the problem of banks that have Efacec credits, what is needed is to guarantee Efacec liquidity in order to meet its commitments — with its workers, with its suppliers and with investment — and place it at the service of the country, with a public management. For the CFP, the definitive nationalization of Efacec, solving the cash problems, guaranteeing the rights of workers, integrating it in the business sector of the State and in a national development project, is the necessary solution. We therefore propose and present a set of proposals associated with this parliamentary assessment: from then on, the maintenance of public management, the public control of Efacec, its definitive nationalization; the safeguarding of all jobs and all the rights of workers, both contractual and acquired, individual or collective, including the remuneration, seniority, professional category, functional content and social benefits acquired by these workers; the development and implementation by the Government of a plan for the development, modernisation and sustainability of the company, linked to national needs and with the potentialities in the export of goods and services. The defence of the interests of the country and our production, the defence of the jobs and the rights of these workers are inseparable from the maintenance of Efacec in public control and its final nationalisation. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u201	You now have the floor to present the parliamentary assessment of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Efacec is the oldest and most important Portuguese technology company, with about 2500 workers and with presence in the areas of energy, environment and mobility in markets in the most varied geographical areas. However, the company has a troubled history since the José de Mello Group and Textile Manuel Gonçalves decided to sell most of the company's shares to a company controlled by the daughter of the former President of the Republic of Angola José Eduardo dos Santos. The year 2020 confirmed the risk for this strategic enterprise, created by the entry into its capital of a ‘politically exposed personality’ associated several years ago to money laundering linked to corruption in Angola, which raised questions by the European Commission itself to the Portuguese Government in 2016. On 27 March, a memorandum of understanding was signed in which the shareholder Isabel dos Santos accepted the passage from the control of the sale process to the banks that financed it in the purchase of the company in 2015 — Montepio, BPI ( Portuguese Investment Bank ) and BIC ( International Credit Bank ) — and to the creditors banks of Efacec — the General Deposit Box, the New Bank and the BCP ( Portuguese Commercial Bank ). The company's sales process was therefore launched with deadline for submission of tenders by the end of June. At the time, the company faced a serious financial problem and trade and operational difficulties. Following the Luanda Leaks case, the determination of the arrest of the participation of Isabel dos Santos led to the situation of impasse in the company, however aggravated by the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. in this context, Efacec workers were severely affected by this situation, not only by the extension, for an additional month, of the layoff situation, but also by the possibility of not paying the wages of July and the value of the holiday allowance, as declared by the Commission of Workers to the Public Journal in July last year. In order to respond to this stalemate, which would put hundreds or thousands of workers in a very complicated situation, the government decided on the nationalisation of the company in July 2020. According to the Council of Ministers, this decision was taken, and I quote, « with a view to safeguarding the national public interest ». We regret that the defence of the public interest is only temporary and that the nationalisation of Efacec is aimed at preparing the company to be sold, and I quote « in the shortest possible time». That is exactly what is provided for in Article 9. the Decree-Law No. 33 -A / 2020, which brings us the greatest reservations and which today we want to reverse. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't make sense! It was the government itself that admitted the importance that Efacec has for the country and for the economy, so the decision of reprivatisation, however already advanced, in December 2020, is a mistake. This parliamentary group has long defended Efacec's public control, a company that we consider to have an undeniable economic and strategic value and which can be the engine of the energy transition in the country. With the acceleration of global warming and the scarcity of natural resources, the transition to a greener and more circular economy requires a strong commitment to the electrification of economies and societies. Efacec can enforce this design as a technological company with deep technical knowledge in areas that support exactly these electrification processes and which are absolutely strategic for the most ambitious fulfilment of the decarbonization objectives up to 2050. That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we have for the vote is simple and responds to this plan of energy transition, to the wishes of thousands of workers, to defend jobs and, above all, to the needs of the country, because reprivatization in this context would be a mistake. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u203	I now give the floor to Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Economics, João Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the partial nationalisation of Efacec is, of course, very important to clarify the reasons that led the Government to take that decision, in the context that we were living today. As is good to remember, the shareholder impasse resulting from the Luanda Leaks process led to a paralysis of the company’s activity, in particular its management bodies and the impossibility of maintaining its commercial activity, due to the damage of compliance resulting from the existence of these judicial processes. On the other hand, the treasury difficulties which resulted precisely from the difficulties of maintaining the business activity of the company also determined difficulties in responding to the obvious commitments of a company of this size and of this importance, not only with its customers and suppliers, but also with its employees. Therefore, what motivated the process of partial nationalization of Efacec is precisely the existence of an actionist impasse that resulted from an indirect participation of Eng.a Isabel dos Santos, through a society, Winterfell 2, in the capital of Efacec. The arrest determined by the courts of the actions held by Winterfell in Efacec and also the bank accounts associated, precisely, with Winterfell's activity determined the impossibility of maintaining a stable activity on the company's side. This situation of impasse, of the impossibility of finding a market solution, even considering the existence of a 20 companies interested in the realization of the acquisition held by Winterfell in the social capital of Efacec, prevented the normal activity of this company. Obviously, we all recognize that Efacec is one of the most important Portuguese companies in the field of technology, in the field of energy and associated activities, such as electric mobility or as activities that, according to the characteristics of Efacec technology, are very important in the Portuguese industrial structure. This is a company with more than 100 years of activity in Portugal. The private management of the company has remained, over these years, as in all companies, with high and low, with more interesting business decisions and others which, of course, did not result in the same way. But this importance of Efacec, which also determines the partial nationalisation decision of this company, does not lead to the need for all companies with the characteristics of Efacec to be nationalised. We do not advocate a model of society or economy based on options of this nature. What motivated the government's action in this situation had to do with not only the strategic importance of Efacec, but in particular with the shareholder impasse that would inevitably lead to the non-survival of the company, a company with the importance that Efacec has, in a context still aggravated, of course, by the pandemic situation that we have lived since the same period, considerably in which the Luanda Leaks processes had an effect on the company's activity. That is why, for this set of reasons, it was determined the partial appropriation of the actions held by Winterfell 2, held indirectly by Eng.a Isabel dos Santos, in the shareholder universe of Efacec. This initiative has allowed the company to remain active during this period. Obviously, the management of a company of this size and of this importance, aimed at external markets — because 80 % of its activity is aimed at exports — has to be done in a context of adaptation to market developments. Therefore, the private management of such a company must be solid and must be made with shareholders who know the market, who can develop it and who can build a lasting solution for the future. That is why this process is not only of partial nationalization, but also of reprivatization of this same appropriation of a partial and temporary nature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u205	The next intervention is the work of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PCP and the Left Block have proposed the nationalization of Efacec. Nothing new! One more day like the others for the knights of galloping statism. But in the face of this desire to nationalize, the question remains: have you not yet realized that everything has to be of State? You still don't realize it's people who create wealth? They still haven't noticed that they're wasting money from taxpayers in nationalized companies, like the EUR 4 billion that go to TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) and that they're going to be melted there? The government nationalised Efacec and had a good sense of predicting short-term reprivatization in the same decree. That is exactly what the Liberal Initiative suggested the government had done for the TAP, to define an exit strategy, and we will have to pay dearly for the omission of that exit strategy. But if there's a good exit strategy, it's done anyway, it's bad. Why the direct sale? Were there any alternatives? Why are there no criteria in the book of charges relating to the nature of buyers? For the Liberal Initiative, it should be explicit that buyers held or dependent on foreign States would not be accepted. Strategic independence is one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union and Portugal has a good opportunity here to set an example. We do not only oppose the nationalization of Efacec by the Portuguese State. We also oppose, in coherence, indirect nationalization by foreign states.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u207	The next intervention was Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, a few months ago, the NAP supported the State intervention in Efacec, it did so because it is a national company dedicated to sectors of activity such as energy, the environment and mobility, absolutely strategic sectors for the country, which also position themselves on the path of economic decarbonization and therefore on the implementation of a greener economy in Portugal. Efacec, being a company with more than 70 years of history and with economic viability, has played a very important role, for example, by the know-how acquired by its workers, which should not be lost. For these reasons, the NAP, from the very first moment, welcomed the Government for its intervention in 72 % of the company's capital, which was arrested under the Luanda Leaks with the aim of saving the company and about 2500 jobs — a company that is in fact a strategic asset in the implementation of a greener economy in our country and which should not be neglected. It is with some strangeness that we have just heard the Liberal Initiative bring its position in relation to that which may be a non-reprivedisation of Efacec, but it does not fail, however, to point out that, in the light of the facts, it is very well associated with the possibility of the government taking itself as a negotiating mediator for private interests! Regardless of what we consider to be a priority for this debate at this time, it is not because we are discussing about the type of management of the company, whether public or private, but rather in being clear and defining that this is a strategic company for the country, it is fundamental, at this time and first, to ensure that it is viable, that existing jobs are maintained — even more when we talk about highly qualified workers — and even if the operation that the State has carried out is itself sustainable. However, we assume that whenever the State makes a capital injection this is acceptable and that it is also acceptable, immediately, that it benefits the private with the same acquisition, it already seems a little strange that there are no reservations regarding this intervention and this role which is not intended for the State to assume. But with regard to the first concern, which is apparently cautious, in particular with regard to the maintenance of jobs, let us see the contours of nationalisation. Mr. Minister of Economics recently said that the Government would use independent evaluators to define the value of the shares acquired by the State, which will subsequently pay to its holder, whether Isabel dos Santos, or the creditors banks. Why, then, did the government choose to nationalize with the intention to compensate, without knowing previously the value of what it was nationalising and what it would have to make up for? Today, it is essential that this issue be clarified as well. In fact, it seems to us to be a blank check, which is not very transparent from the point of view of public accounts, since, contrary to what happened to TAP, there was an assumption of a budgetary burden without the proper quantification and approval of Parliament. It was important that the Secretary of State should also clarify this issue. On the other hand, at the time Mr. Minister of Economics reported that the Efacec Board of Directors had already initiated the search for potentials interested in nationalised capital, namely StormHarbour, SL, which provides advice to the Efacec Board of Directors, which would have received 10 non-binding proposals for the acquisition of State capital. What is important is whether or not the Government will open a public invitation to tender which sets out objectives for the company and workers or whether it will simply sell without public tender and without transparent evaluation criteria, which defend the future of the company and workers. Stories of privatizations that have gone wrong in our country are more than many, losing knowledge-how and ruining acquired knowledge. This has to be avoided at all costs. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, we ask that not be the sales contours of actions acquired by the State to tarnish the solution found for Efacec and, above all, not to miss the potential that, from a strategic point of view, this company has for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u209	Now, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when we discuss these two parliamentary views that the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block bring us to debate, about Efacec, The Greens intend to start by stressing the importance of this company in the context of the processing industry. In fact, when we speak of Efacec, we speak of an important industrial group, with more than a century of activity in our country, which has means of production, technology and knowledge to continue its extensive activities, ranging from energy and environment, through engineering and transport, to electrical mobility. Important sectors not only from the point of view of our economy, but also from the point of view of the strategies already taken in the fight against climate change. We speak of an industrial group with a network of subsidiaries spread around the world, with an annual turnover of more than EUR 500 million, and which ensures 2500 jobs. We are therefore talking about one of the most important industrial companies in our country, with a truly strategic industrial intervention, which has contributed a lot to not increasing our imports. This means that when we talk about Efacec, we also talk about national production and, if we talk about national production, we also talk about creating wealth and less imports. Now, in the face of the difficulties that Efacec has experienced, especially in the face of the problems with its shareholder structure and, more specifically, with the actions held by Isabel dos Santos, which add not only the pressure of the bank, but also the pandemic crisis we are experiencing, the government decided to proceed to the partial nationalization of the group. But the same diploma that comes into nationalisation of Efacec makes it clear that the Government nationalizes and, later, in the short term possible, the State withdraws the share of Efacec's shareholding in social capital. In other words, the nationalised government solves Efacec's problems and then delivers them to the private and, most likely, to a foreign economic group, as happened in the past with other companies. It is with this part that The Greens disagree at all: the part in which the State is called only when it is to solve the problems and, when the company is with the problems solved and prepared to make profits, it proceeds to its delivery to the private. It is a film that we have seen on other occasions. But if we are available to learn from mistakes, we should look at what happened, for example, with Sorefame. In view of what has been said, the Greens also consider that the final nationalisation of Efacec is required and we follow the parliamentary assessments under discussion, considering, moreover, that it will be a monumental mistake if the Government continues this claim to hand Efacec over to the private after giving it its treatment with investment of public money.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u211	The next intervention will be by Mr Emídio Guerreiro, PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Today we are debating two parliamentary assessments, proposed by the CFP and the Left Block, which aim to prevent the Government from selling the State's participation in Efacec. Nothing that surprises us in these parties, which, if they could, would put everything in the sphere of the state. It says the PCP, in its project, that the public control of Efacec should be recovered, saved the company and put it to the service of the national economy. Mixing these three things, taking into account that one depends on the other, it's not serious. In 2015, Efacec was in a difficult situation. With the introduction of new shareholders, it was possible to restructure the company and reverse the situation of difficulty. The results demonstrate that. From 2016 to 2018, it had positive results, which associated with an investment policy that it had not done in the previous 15 years. The best example of this is the realisation of the plant of electric mobility. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was the loss of credibility of the main shareholder who put the company in a difficult situation. It was not due to lack of customers, it was not due to lack of orders, it was not for operational reasons, it was not due to internal problems of product development and its production. It was because the circumstances of the main shareholder’s life prevented the company from accessing bank financing. As Efacec is an intensive capital and project company, it always needs funding to develop products, before billing customers. All of us in this room know this is the case. We therefore miss these parliamentary assessments and what moves them. Efacec has been, is and will be a flag company of the Portuguese economy and, contrary to what the Left Block says, it has long since ceased to be just a reference of the North industry. It is, yes, a reference in its sector on a global scale. Its resilience is remarkable and, even with these conditions, it maintains all its competences on the market and successfully. It has very specialized and dedicated frameworks for the challenges of the energy transition that is underway. The PCP and the Left Block don't want to save the company. They want, on an ideological point, to keep the company in the sphere of state, in the grip of international best practices. There is no company in this sector on the global market and this dimension that is in the sphere of States. You know this, but you ignore it from your approach to the subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u214	The PCP and the Block do not want to put the company at the service of the national economy. This has been the company for many decades without ever having needed the help of PCP and Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the Government expressed its willingness to intervene in the company, the PSD questioned the way and the opportunity. It was clear from the outset that we were not faced with a mistake like what was done in the TAP, perhaps by the protagonist not to be former Minister Pedro Marques but, yes, Minister Siza Vieira and by the decision not to have an ideological but, yes, an economic one. The State shall enter and prepare the conditions for exiting the capital as soon as possible. A surgical intervention in form and time. Therefore, the PSD agreed to the operation. The important thing is to ensure the history and future of the company in Portugal with the maintenance of the centre of competence and innovation in our country and all this is provided for in the decree-law of the Government. The State can choose whoever it wants for shareholder and condition this future shareholder to the strategic and business plan of the company. Clear rules for all those involved, which, in our view, will guarantee the future of the company, based in Portugal and present in the main markets. Thus, we do not follow the proposals of the CFP and the Block, which are clearly inadequate to the interests of the company and the national economy. Yes, we urge the Government to comply quickly with what it promised when it was forced to intervene, i.e. find a new credible private shareholder who complies with the provisions of the decree. And, as it is public, interested don't miss. What you need is to choose well! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u217	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS, is now speaking for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP and the Left Block have scheduled for today's session a parliamentary assessment of the government's decree of reprivatization of Efacec. For us, it's not quite a novelty. PCP and Left Block defend the public control of that company. When we talk about Efacec, we talk about a company that is innovative, we talk about a company that has technology, has energy, has mobility systems, has know-how, has capacity, has competence. when talking about this company it is important to see what impact it has on our economy, whether at the level of employment or at the level of innovation, or at the level of national industrial production. We all know that, last July, Efacec had to be nationalized in a hurry, without the government knowing exactly what the value it would pay to acquire that stake of more than 70 %. This is due only to a problem of financing the company itself, to the 2500 jobs of it and to the importance that Efacec and its activity have for the Portuguese economic fabric. The fact is that the state promised at the time, and this somehow also reassured the CDS, which would pass on to that company in a transitional way. In fact, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira quickly said that the intention was to reprivatize at first. There was a problem with an shareholder. This shareholder, however, challenged the nationalization of Efacec. It is also important to note the costs and risks that may be behind this nationalisation. It wasn't easy, it was difficult. They were many jobs and we are talking about a company that, of course, is important to the country. The expectation of the CDS is that, as announced, this process of reprivatization will then begin in March. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with an obvious conclusion: by the PCP and the Left Block, we will nationalize everything! Efacec is nationalized, TAP is nationalized, EDP is nationalized, Galp is nationalized. Let's nationalize everything! Who pays? Pay a taxpayer! But they don't just stay for nationalization. What do you want? They want to get to the companies and get what? A maximum ceiling on prices. And in the end, who's going to pay again? He'll pay the taxpayer. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to keep this company, but it is important that this company moves to the private side and that it does not cost taxpayers money.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u219	The next intervention will be by Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In June last year the Government took the decision to nationalize 72% of Efacec. This solution was chosen because it was essential at that time to defend a company that has a unique set of characteristics in the industrial context of our country. We did it without stereotypes or radicalisms. We have ignored all those who have called us or called us extremists. Yes, extremists, because we defend 2500 workers who have seen, through a rapid and surgical action of the state, the defense of their jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u222	It was the State that saved them, not the « invisible hand ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] We defend a company that has represented a turnover of EUR 400 million, more than 70 % in exports from our country. We were extremists, as some have said. Fortunately—we recognize! — not all of them. But we did what we had to do to defend national production, to defend a technological pole and an important cluster, which is fundamental in the articulation with our universities, in the employability of skilled labour and which represents an interesting market share in areas of strong growth. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something undeniable in this debate. Without the nationalisation of 72% of Efacec, the country would have lost a strategic company, a structurally viable, highly specialized company and with enormous importance in the context of the decarbonisation of the economy, which is a design of our country and also of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, closing this chapter of the pope-poon of nationalization and blind belief in the 'invisible hand', we will talk about the future of the company. On the same date when we announced nationalisation — which, I repeat, was made to give viability to the company and not to defend bank credits, financiers or shareholders — we assumed that we would not include it in the state business perimeter and that we would work on a solution for the sale of State participation. It is also necessary to make choices here. Yes, we considered the strategic company in the Portuguese industrial fabric, but we do not consider public control of the State in the company essential. It is therefore very important that, when we initiate this tendering process for the alienation of the public, this alienation is made with robust, robust marks to ensure that the company continues to be capitalised, strengthened and strengthened in its industrial aspect. We must ensure that this process is demanding, that speculative funds are left out, interested in easy money but disconnected from a business expansion strategy. We therefore believe that it is appropriate for the Government to do everything within its power to ensure that investors have an area of action where Efacec is involved, because we will thus continue to ensure the strengthening of the company, to guarantee employment, to strengthen national production and to guarantee the future. This future is fundamental for thousands of workers, for the North and for the Country. For those who believe in the knowledge that is generated in our universities, for those who believe in the return of the investment that we make in the formation of the Portuguese, in the talent of our young people, for those who believe that these are the foundations to continue strengthening national production and adding value, this is the way we should go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u223	For an intervention, it is now Mr André Ventura's turn.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative before us today represents, once again, what we could say is the worst that Portuguese policy has on the left side, which is: when there is no solution, nationalizes; when there is no solution, the taxpayers are called to pay more; when there is no solution, we will seek the taxes of all Portuguese people, to keep a company that we want to have nationalized. It was important to know how many companies in Europe today are nationalized in the global market? How many companies, with these characteristics, with this kind of financial and labour structure, are nationalized throughout the European Union, including in countries that only a few years ago have freed themselves from communist juice? How many are there? How many do we have? Zero, all over Europe! See that across Europe there are zero nationalised companies. Until this we want to innovate... it's not enough to innovate in the number of deaths, in the lack of tests, in the lack of health centers, we're also going to innovate in the nationalizations. But the PS deserves repair because, when the workers showed up a few days ago, telling them that the government closed their door, it was because they never told them that the company was going to be reprivatized again. These are the attacks that the labour force of Efacec makes the Socialist Party who, with the desire to be good to all, has just failed the workers themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u225	Go study! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u226	When he announced that he would do a process of distribution and reprivatization, he forgot to inform those who were most interested: the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u227	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u228	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is the symbol of what the PS usually does: one word to the left, one hand to the right. How's everything? It's all the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u229	The next intervention is by Mrs Isabel Pires of the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this final stage, I think there are three issues that are important here to define. First of all, the right, in particular the CDS-PP, is talking about the risks of nationalisation. But it's interesting because the right never comes to talk about the risks of privatizations that the authors were. That, yes, it would be important for us to understand here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u231	The taxpayers know, Mrs. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u232	over the last few years, we have had examples of privatizations that have been absolutely ruinous not only for the public record but also for the Portuguese economy and for a strategy that is desired for the Portuguese economy. He gave the example of EDP. By the way, a very bad example of privatization, Mr President! But the PSD was able to do more. Mr. Emídio Guerreiro was able to do the impossible in this plenary, which was to speak of an shareholder, of shareholders, not to mention the problem that was before everyone and to which the European Commission has warned since 2016, i.e. that Isabel dos Santos is a politically exposed personality, associated with several years of money laundering. And you got here to give that same shareholder a compliment. [[That's not true!]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u233	You have achieved the absolutely impossible in this debate! Mr Secretary of State, what is important to recognize is that, if Efacec is important for the Portuguese industry and for the energy transition, this does not happen with the reality of what has been the practice in several strategic sectors of the economy, particularly in the area of energy and other areas that are important for that same transition, which is said to be done, that if you want to be quick, that, above all, if you want to be fair. If we want this kind of transition, then we have to use the means at our disposal, and Efacec is undoubtedly one of the most relevant means, which, from our point of view, cannot be retrievised. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u234	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now closing this point. Before that, however, there is still an intervention by Mr Emídio Guerreiro, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u235	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u236	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u237	Mr President, the PSD — we are already used — creates rules and then steals them. We are in the process of closing the debate and not having the PSD intervening when it should have done so, or now again, like what happened in the previous debate, to break the rules to speak. I only appeal to the Bureau the simplest of the simplest, i.e., to enforce the rules and that this "guy-expertice" of the PSD is not valid. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u238	If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the only explanation I can give you, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, is that the Bureau has worked hard at the PSD bench to find out whether the time available would still be used and we have been informed that it is not. But this can change at any time, as is evident, and in this sense I apologize. Therefore, the PSD wants Mr Emídio Guerreiro to intervene, but Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is absolutely right, to the extent that we are already talking about the speeches of the parties proposing parliamentary assessments. Therefore, I ask the PSD to take this good practice into consideration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u239	Mr President, I am sorry — I made the point, but it will have been misunderstood, and the mistake will certainly be mine — but I have asked for the floor to ask the Bureau because a lie has been said here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u240	Which one?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u241	It is not a « boy-spertice ». Your benchmate told a lie, said what I didn't read. [[BE's protests.]] If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have doubts about what I said. I have not come here to defend any shareholder, but on the contrary, I have identified the problem very well. That's what the PSD has done and if it bothers you the problem is yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u242	Mr President, I cannot give you the floor for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u243	That is why they remove the lie, because it is very wrong to lie in Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u244	We then move on to the closure intervention by the CFP. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to some comments at the end of this debate, and starting with this issue of costs for taxpayers referred to in several interventions, meant that it was also important to talk about and reflect on the costs for taxpayers when money was placed in the private bank. Imagine! At the private bank! They were followed years in which the money from the state and the taxpayers went to the private bank. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u246	Exactly! [[Protests by Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u247	More: we can also talk about the options and benefits to large companies in our country, where you don't want to move. They are large companies whose wealth is produced in our country but which do not pay taxes here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u248	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u249	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u250	This is an injury to the State and to the taxpayers. It is the taxpayer's money that is not in your hands, but, of course, you don't want to talk about it. Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary of State, with regard to this parliamentary assessment and the proposals that the CFP brings, there are some comments that we cannot fail to make either. More than one fifth of Efacec's jobs are currently at stake. There is a risk of dismissal of 500 workers, but there were no words from several banks in relation to this situation and there must also be a reflection by the government. Efacec is undeniably a fundamental company for the country. It is essential for the North region, for all micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that have activity with it, but it is absolutely strategic for our national production and even to combat external dependencies that may arise there, in particular with its reprivatization. We've seen this film several times, Mr. Secretary of State. We talked about Sorefame, but we could talk about Cimpor or even a company in the Port district, which, changing hands several times, has brought disastrous consequences to the productive fabric of the district, as is the case, for example, of Qimonda. We have seen this film several times and it normally does not guarantee the safeguarding of the regional and national economy and also means the dismissal of hundreds of workers. It is this film that we do not want to repeat the pretext of Efacec.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u251	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u252	Finally, Mr President, since Efacec's production is absolutely strategic for our country, it is also essential that it is not subject to a logic of maximizing profits, accumulation and profit gain, which the private have in the exploitation of all this production. It is therefore essential that Efacec is at the service of the interests of the country and its development.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u253	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u254	It is precisely in order to defend the interests of the country and the jobs, of all the jobs of Efacec, that the CFP presents these proposals. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u255	Also for a closing intervention on this point, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Economics, John Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the comments, proposals and assessments made to Efacec's partial nationalisation process and I would like to leave three notes quickly. This process allowed a firm to defend itself in a very difficult situation, from a shareholder's point of view, which would lead to its insolvency. If the company had not been partially nationalised on the date on which it was made, the Efacec process would inevitably lead to the loss of a company of great economic reputation, with associated technology and with hundreds and hundreds of jobs. The decision that was taken, at the time of its adoption, enabled the workers to defend their jobs in such a company. What is obviously intended is that the company can continue its market consolidation work. It is good not to forget that the company, over a period of several years, maintained its turnover, increased its indebtedness and therefore had results that were less than those that could achieve according to its capabilities. It is therefore absolutely crucial to find a good solution on the market that will enable the company to consolidate itself, strengthen itself and that the jobs, more than they are guaranteed today, can be strengthened in the future. If the company stays with this volume of business, it will obviously have very difficult times ahead. The good solution, from the market point of view, results from the transparency of the process of defining potential buyers of participation that Winterfell initially held in the capital of the company. The transparency of the reprivatisation process is absolutely essential for us and the criteria that have already been established by the Council of Ministers resolution on this matter are clear as to the defence of a solution that enables the recapitalisation of the company, of an industrial nature, if possible, from Portuguese structural elements, and that can continue a path in the central elements of the development of the technologies that are own to Efacec. Therefore, a solution that not only contributes to exports—because we know that 80 % of Efacec's production is not aimed at the internal market but at exports—but which leads to an increased capacity of the company's relationship with the markets, with research and national development, as it has been able to do during a significant period, by consolidating this path, and that it can find a viable and lasting solution in its own capacities, in the capacities of workers. This is the transparent process of strengthening a strong national economy, geared towards exports, which we defend and which here too seems absolutely crucial. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u257	We have thus reached the end of this point, which consisted of the assessment of Decree-Law No 33 -A / 2020 of 2 July[ Parliamentary Assessments No 25 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 24 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) ), and I use it to inform the House that proposed amendments to the Bureau of the CFP and the Left Block have been tabled within the framework of this parliamentary assessment. We are therefore in a position to proceed to the vote, since, as you know, I have long announced that there was more quorum than enough for this purpose. Let's start with the Vote Project No. 443 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD and subscribed by a PS member ) — Despite the death of Antonio Cardoso and Cunha. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last January 24, António Cardoso and Cunha, at 87 years of age. António Cardoso e Cunha was the first Portuguese Commissioner to join the College of Commissioners of the European Commission, then led by Jacques Delors, soon in the year of Portuguese accession in 1986. As European Commissioner has prestigious Portugal and has had an enormous influence on our full integration into the Community structures, which he has held until 1993, having occupied several furrows, namely fisheries and administration. Determined, competent, dynamic, having always been recognized his good work in Brussels in the folders he occupied. In order to defend national interests, it contributed enormously to Portugal's integration being a success. With a long and prestigious career as a politician, entrepreneur and manager, professional engineer, PSD activist, he stands out in particular his passage through the government, first as Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries of the Government of the Democratic Alliance, led by Francisco Sá Carneiro, in 1980, and, in 1981, led by Francisco Pinto Balsamão. He was also a member of the Assembly of the Republic in three legislatures and in the 1990s led one of the most ambitious projects Portugal had known in the late 20th century, the realization of the Expo’ 98. The success of the Lisbon International Exhibition, as well as the urban revolution that radically changed the physionomy of the eastern part of the city, is due, in the first line, to the vision, courage and remarkable organizational capacity of Antonio Cardoso and Cunha. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Antonio Cardoso and Cunha, stressing that its name will always be associated with Portugal's participation in European construction. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u259	As President of the Assembly of the Republic, I join this draft vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, I am reading the Vote Project No 444 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, and non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues ) — Despite the victims of the Holocaust and recalling the International Day in Memory of Victims of the Holocaust: « On 27 January, marking the release in 1945 of the camp of concentration and extermination of Auschwitz-Birkenau by the Red Army, the global community signs the International Day in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust, fulfilling a fundamental mission of the common life of humanity. First of all, we must remember the memory of the lives interrupted or undone by the barbershop, the victims of racial hatred, intolerance before those who are different and the discrimination denying human dignity. Not being able to undo the evil perpetrated against millions of our fellow men, let us remember and pay tribute to their passage through the world, making them the scarce justice that is possible, perpetuating their names, their traditions, their struggle and courage when they face the unthinkable. Secondly, it is important to value the memory of the Holocaust, to perceive its historical causes, the mechanisms of spreading lies and distortion that have dehumanized the other, and to remember how, just over 80 years ago, hatred and intolerance were able to take power and assume a monstrous company of destruction of lives and communities, trying to eradicate the Jewish life of Europe, eliminate Gypsies, eradicate homosexual populations or political opponents, recognizing also the post-memory of the event in their descendants, because violence is also transmitted, as pointed out by Marianne Hirsch. Thirdly, to mark the 27th of January in the Assembly of the Republic, the representative body of all Portuguese citizens, it is also to reaffirm the commitment of all public institutions to this mission of education and of transmission of facts and values to the new generations, to which it will keep the flame of memory and the legacy of intransigent defense of human dignity on fire. Finally, at a time when the extremisms based on hatred, motivated by the difference in origin or descent, seek to return to the public space and contaminate healthy coexistence among citizens, free democracies and based on the valorization of human beings as ends in themselves, unique, unrepeatable and deserving of equal protection in their dignity, they cannot fail to remember the Holocaust, repeating the essential words that must continue to echo for eternity: never again! Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to all victims of the Holocaust and reaffirms its commitment to defending memory and promoting the education of younger generations in the observance of fundamental values, freedom, equality and human dignity. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSP, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] I note that Dr. José Ulman Carp, President of the Israeli Community of Lisbon, Ruben Switzerland, Rabbi of the Israeli Community of Lisbon, and Ambassador Luíz Barreiros, head of the Portuguese delegation to the International Holocaust Reminder Alliance, are present at the Gallery III. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I will read the Vote Project No. 445 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CH, IL, and non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues ) — Greetings to the Legacy of the Constitutional Courts of 1821 in its bicentennial: « Last January 26, 200 years of the Inaugural Session of the Extraordinary General Courts and Constituents of the Portuguese Nation took place following the General Elections concluded in December 1820, which determined the composition of the first Portuguese Parliament, in which the Assembly of the Republic has its historical roots. The General Elections of 1820 constituted one of the most important moments of the Liberal Revolution, whose origins, in conjunction with the liberal movements of 1817 and with the Synod of 22 January 1818, can be found in the proclamation heard in the Campo de Santo Ovidio, in the city of Porto, on 24 August 1820, where the Courts, as an organ of the Nation, are entrusted with the mission to prepare a Constitution, capable of ensuring the rights of the Portuguese. Indeed, and among other matters of greater relevance, such as the abolition of Inquisition and exclusive privileges, amnesty to prisoners by political opinions or the law of freedom of the press, was the first mission of the Constitutional Courts: the approval, 16 months and 482 plenary sessions later, of our Constitution of 23 September 1822. A Constitution which provided for individual rights and duties and enshrined the principle of the tripartite division of powers — legislative, executive and judicial, strictly independent — in which our political system still rests today, giving shape to the idea of a parliamentary assembly as a national body of representation, which is binding, 200 years later, the Assembly of the Republic, representative of all Portuguese citizens and, in this sense, the seat of popular sovereignty. Two hundred years back from the Inaugural Session of the Constitutional Courts of 1821, it is necessary to recall this which was one of the founding moments of our constitutional regime and the current principles and values liberal and democratic. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, recalls the Inaugural Session of the Constitutional Courts of 1821 as one of the founding moments of the Portuguese constitutional regime, as well as its legacy with regard to liberal and democratic principles and values. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[PSP, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[At the moment, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u260	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the general vote on the Bill No 69 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the sanctions regime applicable to infringement of Regulation ( EC ) No 2271 / 96 on protection against the effects of extraterritorial application of legislation adopted by a third country. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] If there is no opposition, we will now proceed to the joint and comprehensive vote of the same bill in the speciality and finality. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall then proceed to the overall vote on resolution No 18 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves Council Decision ( EU, Euratom ) 2020 / 2053 of 14 December 2020 on the European Union own resources system and repealing Decision 2014 / 335 / EU, Euratom. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD and PAN and with abstentions from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Applications were submitted by the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the BE, requesting the release of the Public Administration Commission, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, without a vote, respectively from the Bill No 68 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Defines the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of fragesias and drafts of Law Nos 151 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish the Extinct Frequencies Replacement Scheme, 620 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Reposition of frequencies and 640 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Establishs the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of the parish, and the 60-day period in the case of the request submitted by the Socialist Party and 30-days in the remainder. I ask the Socialist Party if it agrees to amend the deadline which it proposes, that is, 60 days, so that all these diplomas will be brought down to the Commission for the same period.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u261	Mr President, the practice has been to apply for the maximum common denominator, which will be the 60-day deadline.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u262	All right. If there is no agreement, we will have to vote on a request.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u263	Mr President, if I may, I think we can vote on all the demands together. Then they will have different consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u264	As you wish. If there is no opposition, we will vote on these four demands together and we will proceed to the right conclusion as to the deadlines. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will now move on to a supplementary script on the vote on the Bill No 70 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). We will begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 70 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — establishes a system for the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines resulting from the measures adopted under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We turn to the special vote on the bill. Let us begin by voting on Article 1. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] For Article 2. the, we will begin by voting on the proposal submitted by the PS, to add an article 5. o -A to Law No 1 - A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: Article 5a Conducting condominium assemblies 1 — The holding of condominium assemblies follows the rules applicable to the conduct of corporate events in force at each time and for the respective territorial district. 2 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous paragraph, condominium assemblies shall be permitted and encouraged by means of distance communication in 2021, in the following terms: 3 — The signature and subscription of the act may be made by qualified electronic signature or by handwritten signature, bet on the original document or digitalised document containing other signatures. 4 — For the purposes of this Article, the declaration of the condominium, sent by e-mail, to the address of the administration of the condominium, in accordance with the content of the act referred to it by the same route, shall be signed, which shall be attached, as an annex, to the original of the act. 5 — It is for the administration of the condominium to choose by one or more of the means provided for in the preceding paragraph, as well as the definition of the order of collection of signatures or of collection of declarations by electronic mail, in order to ensure the placing of signatures in a single document. 6 — Condominium assemblies and signature or subscription of their uppers which have been made before the date of entry into force of this scheme shall be valid and effective provided that the procedure laid down in the previous paragraphs has been observed.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u265	We turn to the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 6 ( 1 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — All deadlines for the practice of procedural and procedural acts to be carried out under the procedures and procedures in courts, administrative and tax courts, Court of Auditors and other courts, arbitral tribunals, Public Prosecutors, courts of peace, alternative dispute resolution bodies and tax enforcement bodies shall be suspended, without prejudice to the provisions of this article and in the following article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u266	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 6 ( 1 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — All deadlines for the practice of procedural and procedural acts to be carried out under the procedures and procedures that run in court proceedings, administrative and tax courts, Court of Auditors and other courts, arbitral tribunals, Public Prosecutors, courts of peace, alternative dispute resolution bodies and tax enforcement bodies shall be suspended, without prejudice to the provisions of this Article and in the following article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u267	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 6 ( 1 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, PEV and IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] [[Article 6b Deadlines and procedures 1 — All the procedures and time limits for the practice of procedural, procedural and administrative acts to be carried out under the procedures and procedures to be followed in the courts, administrative and fiscal courts, the Constitutional Court and bodies acting with it, the Court of Auditors and other judicial bodies, arbitral tribunals, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts of peace, alternative dispute resolution bodies and tax enforcement bodies shall be suspended without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraphs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u268	We now vote on Article 6 ( 1 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. the proposal for a law, with the amendments made in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u269	Mr President, if I may, I think this vote is damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u270	You are right, this vote is damaged. We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 6 ( 2 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and the abstention of the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph do not apply to proceedings for the prior supervision of the Court of Auditors.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u271	Therefore, the vote on Article 6 ( 2 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. that of the bill, is also impaired. We turn to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 6 ( 3 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The limitation and expiry deadlines for all procedures and procedures identified in paragraph 1 shall also be suspended without prejudice to the prohibition of the application of unfavourable retroactive law in criminal or counter-ordinary proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u272	We shall now vote on Article 6 ( 3 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 6 ( 4 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — The provisions in the previous paragraph prevail over any arrangements which establish mandatory maximum periods of limitation or expiry, to which the suspension shall be extended.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u273	Therefore, the vote on Article 6 (4) shall be adversely affected. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, contained in the same article of the bill. We shall then vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 6 ( 5 ( a ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: (a) processing in the higher courts of non-emergency proceedings where there are conditions to ensure the practice of procedural acts through computer platforms enabling them to be carried out by electronic means or by appropriate means of distance communication, including teleconference, videoconferencing, videoconferencing or other equivalent, without prejudice to the provisions of point (b) of the present act.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u274	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 6 ( 5 ( a ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PAN and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: 5 — Except as provided for in paragraph 1: (a) processing in the higher courts of non-emergency proceedings, where there are conditions for ensuring the practice of procedural acts through the computer platforms enabling them to be carried out electronically or by means of appropriate distance communication, including teleconference, videoconferencing, videoconferencing or other equivalent, without prejudice to the provisions of point (b) of the present act;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u275	The vote on the proposal by the PSD to amend Article 6 ( 5 ( a ) shall follow. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[(a) the processing in the upper courts of non-emergency proceedings, without prejudice to compliance with point (c) where the conduct of present acts is concerned;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u276	The vote on Article 6 ( 5 ( a ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 is thus adversely affected, so we proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of point ( b ) to Article 6 ( 5 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]] [[(b) the processing of non-emergency proceedings, in particular by the judicial secretaries;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u277	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 6 ( 5 ( b ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[(b) the processing of processes and the practice of non-emergency procedural acts where all parties intend to be able to ensure their practice through computer platforms enabling them to be carried out by electronic means or by means of appropriate means of communication, including teleconference, videocall or other equivalent;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u278	We shall vote on the proposal from the CFP amending Article 6 ( 5 ( b ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PAN and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: (b) the processing of processes and the practice of non-emergency present and non-presentative acts where all parties intend to be able to ensure their practice through computer platforms enabling them to be carried out by electronic means or by means of appropriate means of communication, including teleconference, videocall or other equivalent, observing the provisions of paragraph 9.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u279	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the PSD amending Article 6 ( 5 ( b ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, which corresponds to point ( c) of the PSD proposal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[(b) the processing of non-emergency proceedings, in particular by the judicial secretaries;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u280	Having approved this proposal, the following vote in Article 6 ( 5 ( b ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March is damaged. We shall vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 6 ( c ) of the BE amendment. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PEN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: (c) the final decision in the proceedings and procedures for which the court and other entities referred to in paragraph 1 do not consider it necessary to carry out further proceedings, and hearing the procedural subjects in that regard in advance.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u281	We continue with the vote on the proposal from the PS to amend Article 6 ( c ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]] [[(c) the final decision shall be taken in the proceedings and procedures for which the court and other entities do not consider it necessary to carry out further proceedings if the time limits for the appeal, claim of nullities or request for the rectification or reform of the decision are not suspended.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u282	The proposal of the CFP amending Article 6 ( 5 ( c ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March was thus damaged as well as the proposed amendment submitted by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u283	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u284	Mr President, am I making an incorrect interpretation?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u285	Mr President, as there is a renumbering of the PSD proposal, I believe that this PSD proposal amends Article 6 ( c ). oB of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March should be voted on in so far as it will become the new point ( d ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u286	So that's how we do it. We shall vote on the proposed amendment to Article 6 ( c ) of the PSD amendment. o - B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. the proposed law ( corresponds to point ( d ) of the PSD proposal ). Are we in a position to vote? [[Pause.]] It seems that Mr António Filipe of the CFP has something to say. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u287	Mr President, it seems to us that the proposal before this, put forward by the CFP, should also be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u288	So we will do that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u289	Mr President, Mr António Filipe is right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u290	So let's vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u291	Mr President, however, the CFP proposal must be voted on before the PSD proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u292	Of course, even because you are first in the vote script. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall vote on the proposal from the CFP to amend Article 6 ( c ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PAN and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: (c) The possibility of final decision in the proceedings and procedures for which the court and other entities referred to in paragraph 1 do not consider it necessary to carry out further proceedings, and in advance hearing the procedural subjects in that regard.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u293	We will now vote on the PSD proposal to amend Article 6 ( c ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. the proposed law ( corresponds to point ( d ) of the PSD proposal ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] [[(c) the practice of acts and the conduct of non-emergency inquiries when all parties accept it and expressly declare that they have the conditions to ensure their practice through computer platforms that enable them to be carried out electronically or by means of appropriate distance communication, including teleconference, videocall or other equivalent;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u294	Accordingly, the vote on Article 6 ( 5 ( c ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. or, it's damaged. The vote on the proposal from the CFP to amend the Article 6 ( 5 ) Protocol shall follow. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: 5 — Except as provided for in paragraph 1:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u295	We shall then vote on the pro issue of Article 6 ( 5 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL.]] The following vote shall be taken in Article 6 ( 6 ( a ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 6 ( 6 ( b ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: (b) the procedural deadlines and any acts to be carried out in the executive proceedings, with the exception of those which cause serious damage to the existence of the executor or of the executed person or whose failure to perform them, in accordance with the provisions of Article 137(2) of the Civil Procedure Code, prejudice which depends on the prior judicial decision and proceeding solely with regard to those acts and the possible opposition to them.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u296	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on the proposal from the CFP amending Article 6 ( 6 ( b ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: (b) the procedural deadlines and any acts to be carried out within the scope of the executive proceedings, with the exception of those which do not cause serious damage to the existence of the executor or the executed or cause irreparable damage, in accordance with the provisions of Article 137(2) of the Civil Procedure Code, by continuing the proceedings solely with regard to those acts and any opposition to them after the previous judicial decision to verify the existence of such injury.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u297	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposed PSD amendment to Article 6 ( 6 ( b ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]] [[(b) any acts to be carried out in the executive proceedings, with the exception of the following: (i) of payments to be made to the executor by means of the proceeds of the sale of seized goods; and (ii) of such acts which cause serious damage to the existence of the executor or whose failure to perform them causes irreparable damage, which depends on a previous judicial decision.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u298	Therefore, the vote on Article 6 ( 6 ( ( b ) shall not take effect. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020, of 19 March, which was damaged. We shall proceed to the vote on the 6, paragraph 6 projemo. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and ENP and CH abstentions.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next votes shall be on point 7 (a) of this Article. We therefore begin by voting on the proposal from the CFP amending Article 6 ( a ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] [[(a) in the proceedings which required the physical presence of the parties, their representatives or other procedural actors, the practice of any procedural and procedural acts shall be carried out by means of appropriate distance communication means, including teleconferencing, video-calling or other equivalent, and the provisions of paragraph 9 shall be observed.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u299	We shall vote on the PSD proposal to amend Article 6 ( a ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[(a) in the proceedings which require the physical presence of the parties, their representatives or other procedural actors, the practice of any procedural and procedural acts shall be carried out, if it does not cause harm to the purposes of the conduct of justice, by means of appropriate distance communication, including teleconferencing, videoconferencing or other equivalent;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u300	Accordingly, the vote on Article 6 ( 7 ( a ). o-B of this Law, is damaged. The vote on the proposal from the CFP to amend Article 6 ( b ) shall follow. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: (b) Where the physical presence of the parties, their agents or other procedural actors is not possible to carry out the proceedings, in particular in accordance with Article 82(2) of Law No 62/2013 of 26 August, in order to ensure that the court does not involve the presence of a higher number of persons than those provided for by the recommendations of the health authorities and in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the competent higher Councils.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u301	We shall vote on Article 6 ( 7 ( b ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on the BE proposal for an addendum to Article 6 ( c ) ( 7 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: (c) If it is not possible or appropriate to ensure the practice of acts or to carry out proceedings in accordance with the preceding paragraphs, the suspension procedure referred to in paragraph 1 shall also apply to those proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u302	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal from the NAP to amend the Article 6(7)promise. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the NAP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions against the CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 7 - Urgent proceedings, acts and procedures continue to be processed, without suspension or interruption of deadlines, acts or inquiries, as follows:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u303	Let us then vote on the pro­mium of Article 6 ( 7 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on the proposal from the CFP to amend Article 6 ( 8 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 8 — In any proceedings provided for in paragraph 5(b) and in paragraph 5(b) of the preceding paragraph which are to be carried out at present, the parties, magistrates, agents or other procedural subjects or interveners who prove that they are more than 70 years old, immunodepressed or chronic disease carriers who, in accordance with the health authority's guidelines, are to be considered as at risk, are not obliged to travel to a court and, in the event of the enforcement of the right of non-displacement, their investigation or follow-up of the trial takes place in accordance with point (a) of the preceding paragraph.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u304	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the PSD amending Article 6 ( 8 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: 8 — The parties, their representatives or other procedural actors who are, in evidence, over 70 years of age, immunodepressed or chronic disease patients who, in accordance with the guidelines of the health authority, must be considered as at risk, have no obligation to travel to a court, and, in the event of the enforcement of the right of non-displacement, their inquiry or follow-up of the trial shall be carried out by appropriate means of communication at the appropriate distance, including teleconferencing, videoconferencing or other equivalent, from their legal or professional home.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u305	In view of this vote, the vote on Article 6 ( 8 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. that of the bill, it's damaged. Let's go on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, voting on the proposal from the CFP amending Article 6 ( 9 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 9 — In any of the proceedings provided for in paragraph 5 (b) and in paragraph 7 (a), the provision of statements by the defendant and the assistant, as well as the testimony of witnesses or by a party, shall be made from a court, provided that it does not involve the presence of a number of persons greater than those provided for in the guidelines of the health authorities and in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the competent superior councils.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u306	We shall therefore vote on Article 6 ( 9 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL.]] We now vote on Article 6 ( 10 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We shall vote on the PSD proposal to amend Article 6 ( 11 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: 11 — The acts to be carried out in the executive or insolvency proceedings relating to the realization of the legal delivery of the residence of the household or the surrender of the place, in particular in the context of the clearance actions, the special clearance procedures and the processes for the delivery of the leased immovable property, when, at the request of the tenant or the former tenant and hear the counterpart, a decision is taken confirming that such acts put him in a fragile position because of lack of his own housing or for other pressing social reason.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u307	to that end, the following vote in Article 6 ( 11 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March is damaged. We shall proceed to the vote on Article 6 ( 12 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal from the PSD for the elimination of Article 6 ( 13 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the support of PS, PS, BE and IL, the vote against the NAP and the abstentions of the PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] In view of this vote, the vote on Article 6 ( 13 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. that of the bill, it's damaged. We shall now vote on the PSD proposal for addendum to Article 6 ( 14 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: 14 — The services of prisons must ensure, in accordance with the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health (DGS) and the Directorate-General for Reintegration and Prison Services on safety, hygiene and health standards, the conditions necessary for their defenders to be able to confer in person with the defendants for the preparation of the defence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u308	We proceed with the PSD vote on the addition of Article 6 ( 15 ) to Article 6 ( 15 ). o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: 15 — The courts and other entities referred to in paragraph 1 shall be provided with the means of protection and disinfectant hygiene determined by the recommendations of the DGS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u309	We shall vote on Article 6 (1). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the vote on Article 6 ( 2 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on the proposal from the CFP to amend Article 6 ( 3 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The limitation and expiry deadlines for all procedures and procedures identified in paragraph 1 shall also be suspended without prejudice to the prohibition of the application of unfavourable retroactive law in criminal or counter-ordinary proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u310	We shall therefore vote on Article 6 ( 3 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on the proposal by the PSD to amend Article 6 ( 4 ) shall follow. o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — The provisions in the previous paragraph prevail over any arrangements which establish mandatory maximum periods of limitation or expiry, to which the suspension shall be extended.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u311	thus the vote on Article 6 ( 4 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March is damaged. We turn to the vote on Article 6 ( 5 ( a ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on the proposal from the CFP amending Article 6 ( 5 ( b ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[(b) the processing of processes and the practice of non-emergency present and non-presentative acts where all parties intend to be able to ensure their practice through computer platforms enabling them to be carried out by electronic means or by means of appropriate means of communication, including teleconferencing, video-calling or other equivalent, observing the provisions of paragraph 9.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u312	The vote on Article 6 ( 5 ( ( b ) shall therefore be adversely affected. o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. We shall vote on Article 6 ( 5 ( c ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The following is the vote on the PS proposal for an addendum to Article 6 ( d ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PAN and IL and abstentions against CH and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[(d) auction procedure for the allocation of frequency utilisation rights in the 700 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2.1 GHz, 2.6 GHz and 3.6 GHz bands, subject to Regulation No 987-A/2020 of 5 November.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u313	We are now voting on the pro-amendment of Article 6 ( 5 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 6 ( 6 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: 6 — The deadlines for the practice of acts carried out exclusively by electronic means are not suspended within the scope of the tasks of the National Institute for Industrial Property, I.P.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u314	Mrs. Members, since the addition of a new paragraph 6 to Article 6 has been approved. o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, the following vote makes sense, since it is a renumbering, passing Article 6 ( 6 ). o-C paragraph 7. We shall therefore vote on Article 6 ( 7 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 6. o-D to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[Article 6d Election of the President of the Republic The provisions of the previous articles do not apply to the procedural and procedural deadlines, acts and procedures relating to the election of the President of the Republic on 24 January 2021.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u315	We now vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 8. o -A to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] [[Article 8a Data processing within the scope of the Vaccination Plan against COVID-19 1 — As part of the operations necessary for the implementation of the Vaccination Plan against COVID-19, the processing of personal data, in particular health data, shall be permitted on grounds of public interest in the field of public health. 2 — For the purposes of the above paragraph, health data may be processed by any professional mobilized for the implementation of the Vaccination Plan against COVID-19, which are subject to confidentiality and confidentiality. 3 — The processing of contact data entered in the information systems of public entities, in particular those contained in the Prescription Database, the Electronic Health Registry or the SNS24 Contact Centre, and their use for updating the National Register of Users, is permitted for the purposes of convening vaccination users. 4 — The entities responsible for the systems and services under which personal data are processed, for the purposes of this Article, shall ensure the implementation of the minimum security measures and technical requirements inherent in the processing of data, in particular as regards the definition of access permits, the establishment of prior authentication requirements and the electronic registration of access and access data.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u316	We continue with the vote on the body of Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote for Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 3. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions against CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3a Transitional rule The resumption of the time limits for the limitation and expiry of procedures and procedures provided for in this Act shall not occur before 20 days after the expiry of the suspension.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u317	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the IL for the addition of Article 3. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, PEV and CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3a Production of effects This Act produces its effects on 22 January 2021, without prejudice to judicial proceedings and procedural acts carried out and carried out in the meantime.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u318	The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 3. o-B. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, PEV and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3b Production of effects 1 — This law shall take effect from 22 January and shall apply to the current deadlines on that date, provided that the act of the party concerned has not been carried out. 2 — This law does not affect the regularity of judicial proceedings between the date of production of effects and the date of entry into force.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u319	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add an article 3. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: Article 3a Production of effects Articles 6b to 6d of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March 20 shall take effect on 22 January 2021, without prejudice to judicial proceedings and procedural acts carried out and carried out in the meantime.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u320	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add an article 3. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u321	Mr President, I believe that the vote on this proposal is detrimental, since the object is the same as that of the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u322	Since the previous proposal was adopted, the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 3. o -A, that's the way it gets hurt. [[It was as follows: Article 3a Production of effects The provisions of this Act on the suspension of deadlines produce their effects on 22 January 2021, with the exception of the acts and the difficulties that have been observed between this date and that of the entry into force of this Law.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u323	Let us now vote on Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 4 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from CH.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The suspension of the deadlines provided for in this Act may take effect after 21 January 2021 in situations where the existence of a fair impediment has been found, in particular because of illness, prophylactic isolation or assistance to the family resulting from the closure of schools or similar establishments, to be proved in accordance with the legal requirements laid down.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u324	Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the Bill No 70 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), with the amendments adopted in the meantime. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u325	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u326	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u327	Mr. President, it was to require the waiver of final drafting and deadline of claims in respect of Bill No. 70 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u328	Is there any objection to this?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u329	Mr. President, the Left Block is absent.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u330	Then, with the announcement of all those who did not manifest themselves and the abstention of the Left Block, so shall it be done. Returning to the main script, we started by voting, in general, the Resolution Project No. 688 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of actions aimed at depolating the Ferreira River and at re-qualifying its margins, as well as the full functioning of the ETAR in the shortest possible time. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This legislative initiative is down to 11. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 698 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Water Law, ensure the proper treatment of river Ferreira effluents and ensure their urgent depollution. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This legislative initiative is also down to 11. the Commission. The general vote is followed by draft resolution No 815 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the Ferreira River and its tributaries. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This legislative initiative is also down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Interpretation of Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, clarifying its subjective scope of application. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PS and abstentions against the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May 2012. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD and the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues abstained.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 420 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs an independent mandatory assessment of the impact on the medium and long-term sustainability of public finances and the economic and financial viability of public-private partnership contracts ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstained from BE, CH and IL.]] Let us now vote on a request submitted by the PS, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security for the 60-day deadline of draft resolution No 841 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government act on the social network to identify unlicensed residential structures so that its users and employees can be included in the COVID-19 vaccination process. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on a request by the PSD shall be followed by a request for the discharge to the Health Commission within 60 days of draft resolution No 814 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommendations for vaccination of all residents and professionals in residential establishments for the elderly ( ERPI ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions No 527 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government support non-governmental environmental charismatic organisations in the context of the crisis caused by the pandemic caused by SARS-CoV2 and 791 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Support for non-governmental environmental charities organisations in the context of the pandemic, economic and social crisis. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and IL and the abstention of the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u331	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u332	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u333	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u334	Be duly noted, Mr. We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 523 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extension of the period for the holding of safe houses by firearm holders ( First amendment to Law No 50 / 2019 of 24 July ). [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP.]] [[At the moment, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u335	Mrs. Members, we continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the Proposal for a Law No 63 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Exceptional suspension of periods associated with the survival and expiry of the collective working convention. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP were approved.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u336	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u337	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u338	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u339	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No. 554 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and IL Members not enrolled Cristina Rodrigues and PS, PAN and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 43 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen taxpayer guarantees and procedural simplification. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u340	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u341	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u342	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP, through Mr Duarte Alves, wishes to make, at the end of the vote, an oral vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u343	Of course, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u344	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u345	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u346	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will make a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u347	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Has Mr Telmo Correia also asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u348	Mr. President, it was my confusion. My request was a little in advance, but it's already done. I will put forward an oral vote on the following vote on assisted drug death. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u349	But we have not yet done that vote. We shall then proceed to the next vote, which concerns the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bills 4 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable, 67 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates Access to Assisted Medicine Death, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulating the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, 168 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and 195 / XIV1. a (IL) — regulates the anticipation of the end of life, in a dignified, conscious manner and assisted medicine. Yesterday, at the Leaders' Conference, and earlier in a letter addressed to all parliamentary groups, was informed and consensualized how this vote will take place. As you know, there are parliamentary groups that have a group position and there are parliamentary groups that do not. As a result, in the first phase, Members who are currently in the Chamber will be voting and, immediately after that vote, Members of the parliamentary groups who have a group position may of course leave the Chamber or at least cease to participate in subsequent votes. If there are parliamentary groups or Members who have different positions, they will be called, in case they are not present on the first wave — it is a strange term, but... — in a second, in a third or even in a fourth wave. That is what has been consensualized, since no one will be left out of this vote. All will have to vote at the moment, except those who are confined and who have already reported that they would vote by video conference at the end of the vote. And only then will the final result be announced. I think everyone understands, they've all been informed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u350	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u351	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u352	Mr President, it is only to make it clear that, in the case of my parliamentary group, the vote is individual, but there is a sense of one vote, since all Members will vote against it. There is therefore no group position, there is an individual position in which everyone is against it. So I'll be able to get out, but I'll have to get back...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u353	We have not yet started voting, Mr President. But I thank you once again for your anticipation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u354	Mr. President, I will, but I will obviously have to go back to...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u355	You did the opposite. First, he announced the statement of vote and then he said he would vote against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u356	I continue to insist, Mr. President. in this case, I will then leave the Chamber, but then I will return to make the declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u357	All right. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who want to stay in the Chamber, stay, and the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who want to leave, let's get out. It is also a free Parliament from this point of view. We shall then proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills 4 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable, 67 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates Access to Assisted Medicine Death, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulating the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, 168 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and 195 / XIV1. a (IL) — regulates the anticipation of the end of life, in a dignified, conscious manner and assisted medicine. I'm asking the ladies. Members present who vote against. [[Pause.]] They voted against the PCP, CDS-PP, CH and PS and PS Members. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on the name of the PSD and PS Members who voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u358	They voted against PSD Deputies Paulo Moniz, Isura Morais, Hugo Oliveira, Émídio Guerreiro, Fernanda Velez, João Moura, Clara Marques Mendes, Bruno Coimbra, Carlos Peixoto and PS Deputies Raul Miguel Castro, Romualda Fernandes, Cristina Sousa, Maria da Graça Reis, Joaquim Barreto, José Luís Carneiro, Paulo Porto, Pedro Cegonho and Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u359	I'm asking who's away. [[Pause.]] Deputies of PS João Azevedo and Nuno Fazenda were abstained. I ask, now, who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They voted in favour of PS, BE, PEV, PAN, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD Members. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on the name of the PSD Members who voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u360	PSD Deputies Rui Rio, Catarina Rocha Ferreira, Monica Quintela, Adam Silva, Isabel Meireles, Duarte Marques and Hugo Carvalho voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u361	With my gratitude for your cooperation, I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members of the PSD shall proceed with the rotation of the presences, so that the Members waiting outside can also express their sense of vote. I wonder if there are different ways of voting in the other parliamentary boards. [[Pause.]] I'm told no, so the only bench to rotate presences is that of the PSD. A little while ago, I asked the gentlemen. Members who had already voted to eventually leave, although they could then return to the announcement of the final result of the vote, precisely so that there would not be many Members in the Chamber. That's all. Since the PS, the PCP and the Left Block have already voted, I think they could go out and get some air while the others. PSD members enter the Chamber and prepare to vote shortly. [[Pause.]] I think we are already in a position to vote. Now it's only at the PSD bench that I'm going to ask for voting guidelines. So I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on the name of the PSD Members who voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u362	They voted against PSD Members Afonso Oliveira, Eduardo Teixeira, Cláudia André, Antonio Cunha, João Marques, André Neves, Firmino Marques, Filipa Roseta, Ilídia Quadrado, Hugo Carneiro, Emília Cerqueira, Antonio Lima Costa, Fernando Ruas, Carla Borges, Alberto Machado, Carla Madureira, Cláudia Bento, Alexandre Poço, Álvaro Almeida, Alberto Fonseca, Artur Andrade, Carlos Silva and Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u363	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u364	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u365	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u366	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u367	Mr President, I also inform you that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u368	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u369	Mr President, I would like to speak for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u370	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u371	Mr President, I also inform you that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u372	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u373	Mr President, I also inform you that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u374	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I wonder, now, who's away. [[Pause.]] Mrs Ana Miguel dos Santos, who, in the meantime, realized that she was going to deliver a written statement of vote, which is recorded. Finally, I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, would you like to do the exercise of telling me who you are. Members who voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u375	They voted in favour of PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte, António Maló de Abreu and André Coelho Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u376	The third round of votes is followed, with regard to the same final text. [[Pause.]] We are going to proceed with a new rotation of Members, so I ask the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have already voted in favour of leaving the Chamber, to bring in the Members. Members who are waiting outside the Chamber and who have not yet expressed their vote. [[Pause.]] Realized that the rotation is and being present the Mrs. Members who have not yet voted, I think we are already in a position to vote. It is now only the PSD that I will ask the voting guidelines, in this third wave of votes, concerning the same final text as I have stated. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] Madam Secretary, would you like to take care of the ladies? Members who voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u377	They voted against PSD Deputies Luís Marques Guedes, Pedro Roque, Ricardo Baptista Leite, Maria Gabriela Fonseca, Paulo Neves, Sandra Pereira, Rui Cristina, Maria Germana Rocha, Márcia Passos, Paulo Rios de Oliveira, Olga Silvestre, Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, José Cesario, Nuno Carvalho, Jorge Paulo Oliveira, José Silvano, Paulo Leitão, Pedro Rodrigues, Helga Correia and Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u378	I wonder, now, who's away. [[Pause.]] Mrs. PSD Member Ofélia Ramos was absent. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] Madam Secretary, please indicate who voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u379	Mr. President, the PSD Members Sofia Matos, Lina Lopes, Pedro Pinto and Margarida Balsairo Lopes voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u380	There is no need to vote. Members present by video conference, which are three. They wanted to do the favor of manifesting themselves. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u381	Mr. President, I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u382	Mr. President, I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u383	Mr. President, I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u384	All of you. Members had the opportunity to vote. I therefore ask the services and the ladies Bureau secretaries to finalize the results of the vote. It is clear that we no longer need to mention which Members who voted against, abstained and voted in favour because their names have already been registered. So we just need to know the number of Members who voted in favour, abstained and voted against. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u385	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u386	Do you want to do a fifth round? Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u387	Mr President, I just wanted to say that I voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u388	I ask the services to take this vote against into account. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's finally white smoke. We are in a position to announce the result of the vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills 4 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable, 67 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates Access to Assisted Medicine Death, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulating the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, 168 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and 195 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — regulates the anticipation of the end of life, in a dignified, conscious manner and assisted medicine. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with 136 votes in favour (PS, BE, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 14 PSD Members), 78 votes against (PCP, CDS-PP, CH, 9 PS and 56 PSD Members) and 4 abstentions (2 PS and 2 PSD Members).]] There is now a period of oral explanations of vote, but I ask you to do so. Members to take into account the time we are working. Let us begin with the oral vote by Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP, on the vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 43 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen taxpayer guarantees and procedural simplification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This explanation of vote refers to the vote on the Bill No 43 / XIV / 1. the objective of which was to strengthen the rights of taxpayers. However, there were a number of aspects of this Government proposal with provisions that removed possibilities of defence from taxpayers, especially from the smaller ones, and that is why we abstained from voting in general. However, in the specialty process, we made proposals that enabled these problems to be solved. We wanted to highlight the question of tax holidays, which the CFP placed on the table and which is a very important achievement for all taxpayers and, in particular, for certified accountants. Following the adoption of a proposal from the CFP, in the State budget for 2020, this aspiration has now been realized, not as originally proposed by the CFP but in a manner which still represents a huge step, which will reflect positively in the life of the more than 70,000 accountants in this country. So far, an accountant was obliged to take the computer to the holiday, because there was no time in which he would no longer have to respond to dozens of notifications and obligations per week. Now it won't be like that. With the transition from the deadlines for notifications and obligations ending in August to the first days of September, certified accountants will be able to manage more flexible work during the month of August, allowing for the first time real vacation. After the fair impediment, we have now obtained the tax holidays, two old demands from the accountants that the CFP accompanied with their proposals. This is a victory that, taking advantage of the CFP initiative (both in the Budget and now in this bill), has gained an extended consensus, with proposals from various parliamentary groups, that we welcome the work done. In the final version, we voted in favour of this bill because the problems that caused our abstention have been solved in the initial vote and also because it has advanced in achievements that will have an expression in the lives of many people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u390	We shall then proceed to the oral explanations of vote on the final final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills 4 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable, 67 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates Access to Assisted Medicine Death, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulating the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, 168 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and 195 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — regulates the anticipation of the end of life, in a dignified, conscious manner and assisted medicine. First of all, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the vote just taken, the Assembly of the Republic has added dignity and respect for our democracy. The law that we have adopted, in its combination of daring with prudence and determination with rigour, is the right response of democracy to fundamentalisms and the strategies of fear that this legislative process was intended to be conditioned. To the spread of fear, Parliament responded with responsibility and did what it had to do: it brought to the debate the best legal, medical, bioethics and, with it, developed a balanced and just law. The legislative process does not end here, but we trust that the next steps will be guided by the same spirit of tolerance and respect, by the free and informed decision of each one, which has encouraged the majority of this Parliament. in a pluralism-friendly society and in a law-friendly state, there is no place for any preconceived moral primacy. The only order of values that the legislator has to adhere to is the reflection in the Constitution of the Republic and the law that we have passed today does so without maculum. This law has many names. The name of Laura Ferreira dos Santos and that of João Ribeiro Santos, which triggered a civic mobilization that culminated in this law. The name of Luís Marques, whose public testimony of determination taught us that there is no physical limit to the struggle for respect for dignity. The name, each name, of the many to whom the law has deprived of a life-end that respects them. The name of each of the activists who have struggled for years for this moment to happen. The name of each of the Members and of each of the Members, and it is fair, very fair, that Mrs Isabel Moreira, who gave all her determination and all her knowledge to have a tolerant and rigorous law. But of the many names that have made the way that today, here, gain the force of law, there is one in which all the credits it brings to our democracy are joined, and that is the name of John Semedo. The courage, the knowledge, the weight, the work, finally, the great humanity of John Semed joined this law, and this had to be the day that John would be here with us to approve it. And he was, yes, because this is the law John Semedo. [[Congratulations from BE and the Member of Parliament not inscribed Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u392	Mr António Filipe of the Portuguese Communist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u393	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is known, since the debate we have made in general, that the CFP has expressed its position, and has now reiterated, in this comprehensive final vote, the legislation we have just adopted. Our position is of understanding to the humanity of whom, considering the limited situation in which one can find himself, understands that, from an individual point of view, one can end life. But what we are called here to approve is not the judgement of individual consciousness of each one, it is the social consequences that can come from a legislator's option, from a message from the legislator to society. And there is, on the side of the PCP, the right fear that this message can lead to the installation in our country of experiences that we do not want to see here or the idea of the trivialization of the use of euthanasia. Experiences that exist in other countries are not positively inspiring and we would not want them to repeat and install something that could be close to a business at the expense of the anticipated death of people who, considering the difficulties that exist here, including access to palliative care or health care, in general, may think that the only alternative they have is to anticipate their death, because they are not offered in life adequate and sufficient care. It is the fear that there will be deeply negative social consequences, with the approval of this legislation, which basically determines the vote that the CFP has shown here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u394	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u395	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is an important day, because today the House has passed a law that defines the conditions under which the drug-assisted death is not punishable. This is a proposal whose legislative process has been involved and an extensive debate, perhaps as few legislative processes have known here in the House, a diploma which establishes a process surrounded by all cautions and guarantees, which is possible only in very particular situations and certain and very well defined in the law, which requires a conscious, free and informed request, and which can be revoked at any time and without any formalism. It is therefore a good law for which the Greens have also contributed to their proposals. Still, I wanted to leave two notes. First of all, I would like to regret the fact that the Greens' proposal on the guarantee of drug-assisted death can only be possible in the SNS without the consensus of all banks. It was an important assumption for us, because if there are matters that must be out of the reach of the market this is one of them. What the Greens intended, in particular, with this proposal, was to remove the private sector from this debate and from this solution. It was a way of ensuring that assisted drug death did not become a business factor, but unfortunately it did not deserve the acceptance, or consensus, of the remaining benches. Secondly, I would like to say that this law at nothing can contribute to reducing, smoothing or de-responsibility of the State with regard to its duty to ensure patient access to palliative care and to ensure a good network of continued care. As we know, there is a Palliative Care Base Act and if there is no greater investment in this care, as well as in continuing care, it is because over time there have been those who exchanged these investments for other values or priorities, such as deficit values. from the Greens here we will continue to demand the necessary investment in palliative care and a good network of continued care. Finally, I would also like to say that the Greens believe that we are before a balanced, sensible, fair law which guarantees the essential: security and compliance with legal criteria.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u396	Also for a statement of vote, Mrs Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the adoption of a tolerant, plural law which respects and protects those who want to live as nature dictates it until the last of its days, but who respects those who choose the day of their death, with the assistance of third parties, in circumstances defined by the constitutional framework. This is, therefore, the law which, rather than pursuing some, embraces the choices of each person, being each person in that indelegable choice, someone we look with great respect that we have to be free and autonomous. There were few debates so dense, so intense, so open to civil society, parties and here in Parliament. We welcome the movement that came to this House, recalling with gratitude and enormous longing, in particular, John Semedo. This was a serious, serene, open and involved legislative process. The law discussed and passed in general almost a year ago was discussed in the specialty, in the working group chaired by Mónica Quintela, whose work and dedication we thank. The replacement text approved here is the result not only of the will of the draft laws of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group and the other proposers, but of the contributions collected. We have listened carefully to those who defended this law and also, and very extensively, those who opposed it with borderlineness, and it was this democratic plurality that we arrived here. throughout this year, we never stopped learning about men and women whose voice is not heard for obvious reasons. They are people who are in a situation of terminal disease, suffering of difficult explanation and who want to be able to choose without the cruelty of criminal persecution. It is people who are in unbearable silence, who dispense paternalism, who impose nothing on anyone, but who hope not to die in useless and unwanted suffering. Here we are saying that we leave no one behind, never, because it may be true that the great test of civilization is that of tolerance. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u398	For a statement of vote too, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The text adopted today closes several years of an intensive and informed social and political debate by all sectors of our country, attested by the President of the Republic, who said that — and I quote — "a debate was held very involved by all political, political, religious and social quadrants". The debate never stopped. If, three years ago, in this Parliament, the vision of a paternalist, dominant and authoritarian state that can impose on everyone a life-end model, today, a progressive, supportive and empathic majority enshrines in the law the general feeling of the Portuguese people who want a state that confers freedom, autonomy and self-determination on those who are clearly in an excruciating end of life to choose to anticipate their death and start according to their values. We know that the decision on assisted drug death is definitive, with irreversible effects, and we know that it involves risks and can promote abuse. For this reason, the text we have adopted today is based on the greatest rigour and guarantees the formality and security of the processes through a huge scrutiny and regulation that was only possible with the commitment of various parties and with the many contributions received in the dozens of hearings and opinions of all entities who wanted to participate in the construction of a just, rigorous and reliable law. The high complexity of this matter has not prevented Members from deciding and legislating. Parliament did not allow itself to be hampered either by fear or blackmail and had the courage to move forward in the area of the consecration of rights, to extend freedoms and to take care of the most vulnerable. Today Parliament has determined that an act of kindness ceases to be considered a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment. A life that lives all over includes its entire end, preventing one from having a word to say about how not if life ends is a restriction of the full right to life, failing our autonomy at the time of the end of life is betraying our whole life. Today, Parliament recognizes the last individual freedom of anyone to be helped at perhaps the most difficult time in his life. [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u400	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, speaks for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u401	Mr. President, euthanasia is a defeat for all. The answer is « never to abandon those who suffer, not to give up, but to care and love to restore hope». The phrase isn't mine, it's Pope Francis. We, CDS, voted against, because we consider it to be a mistake. It is a mistake because it allows to kill lives that, by the advance of medicine or by changing their own will, could be saved. It is a mistake because it corresponds to a culture of death and suicide, whose propaganda, moreover, is allowed. It is a mistake because it is against all deontology and against all ethics of those who have sworn medical profession and health professionals in general. It is a mistake because, in our opinion, and we hope that it will be demonstrated — and we will do everything for it — is against the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the value of life as it has consecrated it. But now, and beyond these arguments against, when the country does not yet have to offer to those who suffer, especially to the elderly, palliative care worthy of a rule of law and a developed State, consecrated euthanasia is therefore also a mistake. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is unacceptable that, at the moment of the death of 300 Portuguese or more per day, at the moment of the death of thousands of people per week, many of them, the older ones, certainly in homes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u402	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u403	... others at home, what Parliament has to offer to the country and to the Portuguese is an idea of death. They offer them life, offer them support, offer them treatment, offer them care that the country does not yet have to offer. It's an indignity, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is overwhelming and, without fear of words, it is a shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u404	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. However, paragraphs 71 to 78 of the Diário are hereby approved for plenary meetings of 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, 23 and 24 July and 10 September 2020. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 3 February, for 15 hours, on the agenda seven points. The first point is the joint assessment of Petition No 577 / XIII / 4. a ( Renato Fialho de Mendonça and Vasconcellos et al.) — They request the reduction of retirement age for people with disabilities and the Law Projects Nos 590 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Anticipation of the age of reform of disabled workers and 617 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Special scheme for access to early retirement for people with disabilities. of the second point is the joint discussion of Petition No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( Jorge Dinis Pinto et al.) — Reopening of Visconde de Salreu Hospital and Resolution Projects Nos 769 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Investment and requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital, 828 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By valuing Visconde de Salreu Hospital in Estarreja, 836 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The reopening of the emergency service and the proper functioning of Visconde de Salreu Hospital and 842 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of Visconde de Salreu Hospital. In the third point we will proceed to the joint discussion of Petition No 59 / XIV / 1. a ( Márcia Alexandra Magalhães Rosa Teixeira et al.) — Access of members to the layoff regime and the Bill No 635 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for independent partners and workers. The fourth point is the joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 282 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal, 284 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently strengthen beds and palliative care teams in order to ensure national coverage in both hospital and household services, 253 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the public response to palliative care, 256 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — By extending palliative care, 291 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthen the state response in the area of palliative care and 304 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the national palliative care network and support for patients, their families and informal caregivers in a specific context of palliative care. of the fifth point is the assessment of the draft resolution No 780 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — By eradicating female genital mutilation. The sixth point is the discussion of the Resolution Project No. 857 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — By hiring clinical secretaries and operational assistants for primary health care. of the seventh and final point are the statutory votes. In the meantime, and before we finish, the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha will indicate which were the Members. Members who were attending this meeting by teleconference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u405	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS Parliament and Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves of the PSD Parliamentary Group. They were present by videoconferencing for being in prophylactic isolation, Mr. Members of the Socialist Party, Elza Pais, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Maria Begonha, Joana Sá Pereira, Pedro do Carmo, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos, André Pinotes Batista and Susana Correia, of the Social Democratic Party, Luís Leite Ramos, and of the PCP, João Oliveira. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-29.u406	Thank you very much, Secretary. Good afternoon. I wish everyone health. The session is closed. [[It was 15 hours and 15 minutes.]]
