ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. The agenda for today is set at the request of the Liberal Initiative, with the Bill No. 890 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Protects freedom of expression online, to which Bills No. 884 / XIV / 2 were associated. a ( PS ) — Develops the scheme of Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, providing support to private entities that carry out fact-finding and quality stamp award activities, 888 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Remove from Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May ( Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age ), the creation of the concept of misinformation and the forecast of state support and incentives for the allocation of quality stamps to media bodies and 914 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Amended Act No 27 / 2021 of 17 May adopting the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. All these diplomas will therefore be discussed together in general. After this debate, there will be regular votes. In the meantime, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor, certainly to make an appeal to the Bureau. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u2	Mr President, if I may, it is to appeal to the plenary of a decision of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u3	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u4	Mr President, if I may, I have one minute to make this presentation. As shown in the vote script, it was decided by the Bureau to put together three draft resolutions from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities for general vote. Two of them, one from the Left Block and another from the Green Party, are about the recognition of the State of Palestine, which according to the Rules of Procedure should be voted in general to then go down to the Commission. Another, Resolution Project No. 1316 / XIV / 2. a (BE) is about the recognition and classification of Israeli settlers in Palestine as an annexation. Now, as it is perceived by the title and content of the diplomas, the Draft Resolution No 1316 / XIV / 2. a (BE) has nothing to do with the other two and therefore according to the Rules of Procedure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u5	Excuse me, sir, what are we talking about? of the votes?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u6	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u7	But we have not yet entered that point, Mr President. This is not the time to discuss what will or will not be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u8	Mr. President, I am filing an appeal for plenary...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u9	If you do the favor, you will repeat your speech at the time of the vote, because we are now going to get on the agenda with a debate on freedom of expression online. That's what we're going to discuss.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u10	Mr President, I would like the Bureau to read and respect the Rules of Procedure with regard to the rights of parliamentary groups. One of these rights is to appeal a decision of the Bureau for plenary. I was exposing this appeal and Mr President interrupted me to say that this is not the time, after giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u11	Sir, this is not the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u12	It's time, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u13	Now let's get on the agenda. That is something that has to do with the votes. So when we get to the voting point...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u14	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u15	Sir, don't insist, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u16	Mr President, then I want to make a protest about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u17	All right, the protest's on record.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u18	No, no! I've got two minutes to expose the protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u20	Mr President, at the bottom I am disappointed by the fact that the Bureau itself has no knowledge of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. And from this point of view, I will make a new request for the plenary to consider this latest Bureau decision. It is that a script of votes has been distributed, which, as the Rules themselves state, is stabilized until it is amended unanimously by the Assembly of the Republic. The decision on the distribution of this ballot box involves a set of attached decisions which have been decided by the Bureau of the Assembly. Now, I can only disagree with those decisions in the plenary at the time I'm doing it. As the Bureau has said several times that we should not ask for amendments to the vote script on the vote, I will do so at the time the Rules of Procedure so foresees, which is the beginning of the sitting. That the Bureau does not know these issues is incomprehensible to me, since it is an absolutely normal attitude. Therefore, I want to appeal again to plenary of the decision not to distinguish individually the Draft Resolution No 1316 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), a regiment that assists the Left Block, and asks that a request be voted on in plenary for subsequent amendment of the vote script and from there on the right to request the vote by points of that draft resolution. All parliamentary groups are informed of this situation, which I did not need to have done, but I did. So the only thing that is asked to the Bureau right now is to corroborate this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. We shall vote on this request at the right time, which is at the beginning of the item on the vote. Let us then enter the agenda, with the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 890 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Protects freedom of expression online, 884 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Develops the scheme of Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, providing support to private entities that carry out fact-finding and quality stamp award activities, 888 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Remove from Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May ( Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age ), the creation of the concept of misinformation and the forecast of state support and incentives for the allocation of quality stamps to media bodies and 914 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Amended Act No 27 / 2021 of 17 May adopting the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. First of all, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative agenda of the Liberal Initiative is intended to be a reminder to us that freedom is precious and that its conquest is not irreversible. On the contrary, history teaches us that over time societies that grant their citizens the enjoyment of individual freedoms are the exception rather than the rule. It further teaches us that the longevity of these exceptions is directly linked to the conviction and courage with which people resist attempts to limit or condition their individual freedoms, come these attempts of the State or any other powers. And the warning we want to bring here is this: there are undeniable signs that in Portugal the conviction and courage to defend freedom is beginning to be scarce. Throughout the pandemic, it was too easy, inside and outside the state of emergency, to exchange freedoms for supposed security. Fear, often instigated, prevailed over the desire for freedom. In fact, a recent study by the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation, published on 11 July, reveals that 86% of the respondents considered the restrictions on individual freedoms justified, although almost half also believe that this period contributed to the weakening of democracy. Therefore, even outside the pandemic context, this weakening of democracy does not seem to concern the Portuguese. Another study, from the Institute of Social Sciences of the University of Lisbon ( ICS-UL ), named The values of Portuguese and published by the express weekly on June 10, concluded that only one third of Portuguese reject the existence of authoritarian leaders. The same is true of the fact that almost two thirds of Portuguese people are available to disregard their freedoms, provided that a tyrant says anything that solves their problems. Perhaps the Portuguese are giving freedom for gain. After all, this year's census will confirm that today more than half of the Portuguese were born after April 25—they never knew what it was like to live without freedom, they never really had to fight for it. This warning is therefore important: freedom is not guaranteed, each new generation must renew the fight for individual freedoms. And, at the head of this struggle, is the struggle for freedom of expression, essential to the health of an open, creative and truly democratic society. Without freedom of expression, there is no confrontation of ideas, there is no critical thought, there is no scrutiny. Without freedom of expression, there is no scientific progress or production of knowledge. We cannot allow this fundamental freedom to be alibi, whether in traditional means or in digital means. That is precisely what the Charter of Human Rights of the Digital Age adopted in this Parliament, and in particular Article 6 thereof. Oh, come on. by dedicating to this theme one of the two legislative agendas available in the four years of this legislature, the Liberal Initiative points out the importance it attaches to the defense of freedom of expression and also the firm intention to correct an error that has already taken publicly: that of not keeping its vote contrary when, last October, the diploma was discussed for the first time in this plenary. At the time, there was no political or media echo of the objections we raised to this law. But we now have an opportunity, which is indeed an opportunity for all other parties too — and, on behalf of justice, here I must stress the consistent opposition of the CFP to Article 6. o — to correct this position. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Charter of Rights in the Digital Era aims to enshrine or reaffirm, in the digital space, important individual freedoms and rights, such as freedom of access, association and assembly in the digital space, or rights to privacy, forgetting, protection against misuse of geolocation, digital will, among others. It is true that the Charter is redundant, from the point of view of the affirmation of constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights, as constitutionalist José Melo Alexandrino well wrote in his opinion to the Committee of the Journalist Professional Wallet ( CCPJ ). It is also true that, as the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry clearly states, the Charter adds « legal uncertainty » in these matters. But these objections, either one or another, would be out of the question if it were not the provisions of the ignominious article 6. the, which deals with the topic of "protection against misinformation" and which we propose here today, purely and simply, to revoke. More than useless, the provisions of this article are dangerous and unacceptable. And all of this has made it even worse by the bold and sub-reflective form that the PS has tried to introduce them into the law. The wording of the article aims to suggest that this is a kind of transposition into the Portuguese legislation of the European Action Plan against Disinformation. Indeed, this plan was presented by the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, but it has never been voted on by the European bodies and its content has little to do with Article 6. first, the European Plan refers to misinformation as a threat to the internal security and democratic stability of the Member States, notably through large-scale propaganda or sabotage maneuvers by other countries, such as Russia, which is mentioned several times. It is, of course, a matter of the greatest relevance that should be paid to our attention, but at home itself; it does not have a degree on internal issues and on individual rights and freedoms, as the Charter supposedly does. And, excuse me, the European Plan does not even touch on the subject of fact-finding entities. So making the idea that the European Plan is being transcribed is simply trying to deceive the Portuguese people. But even if it was a transcription, there are omissions that are scandalous. The European Plan excludes from the definition of misinformation — and I quote — « the news and comments clearly identified as partisans», or, in other words, excludes from the definition of misinformation political opinions. The PS version does not exclude. The deliberate omission of this exclusion by the Socialist Party is not casual, cannot be casual and can only have a meaning: the PS intends to control the political discourse online, and this is taxably unacceptable. As it is unacceptable to condition the political discourse which, in the arbitrary view of who is not known, can — and I quote again — « threaten the processes for the development of public policies ». But what process and what public policies? What do the PS or the government of shift decide? The idea of transforming data verifiers into a kind of "general directions of the ministry of truth" is both dangerous and bizarre. It is dangerous because the verifiers, independent entities operating freely in a competitive environment, are also deceived and do not always coincide in their evaluations, as it is also easy to find out for those who consult the sites of the main Portuguese verifiers. in these cases, who checks the verifiers? The government? For that is what we never, but never, can accept. And, in order to have a sense of how strange this idea is, it is sufficient to read the answers to an inquiry that the Legislative and Parliamentary Information Division of the Assembly of the Republic addressed to its congenres to know in which countries there are official fact-finding entities and in which countries quality stamps are attributed to media bodies. Responses were received from 27 parliaments. Of these 27, the countries that have officially validated facts verifiers are zero. Of these 27, countries with high quality stamps, directly or indirectly, encouraged by the State are zero. It is true that there are zero cases, because the proposal makes zero sense. But the PS and the Government are well aware that what they proposed in the Charter is unacceptable in any democratic country. And it was precisely because they had a heavy conscience that did not include any of these provisions in the text of the Lisbon Declaration, adopted at the Digital Assembly on 1 June. It was such a shame that they only hid a few brief references to the fight against misinformation in an annex that no one will read. In sum, this Article 6. it proposes an approach to misinformation that opens the door to censorship and self-censorship, dangerously close to the defense of an "official truth", creating risks and problems a thousand times worse than that which is supposed to solve. The truth is that the only way to combat misinformation is with more and better information, with more autonomous and more independent citizens, with a society less submissive and more accustomed to scrutiny and criticism. In the fight against misinformation, it is also essential to continue to recognize the existence of a free and independent press, uncomfortable for the powerful and demanding in the scrutiny of those who decide. A press that constitutes a true fourth democratic power is an essential weapon against misinformation. Only repressive dictatorships such as China — with its famous Golden Shield project including the great firewall of China — or others such as Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkmenistan, or Vietnam feel the need to have public discourse control systems to preserve the « official truth ». No liberal democracy can admit to taking such a step. You cannot admit to opening this very dangerous door, in which you attribute to someone the power to define what is true or false. No democratic society can accept this, because the power to censure political opinions because they are supposed to be false amounts to the power to censure political opinions—point! That is why the only solution is to repeal this Article 6. Mr. President, Mr. Members: In this agenda, the Liberal Initiative accepted the withdrawal of three more diplomas, which we thank. We will vote in favour of the CDS bill, which is of equal content to ours, and which makes good use of this attempt to change its sense of vote a month ago. However, we will vote against the NAP initiative, because we are trying to save Article 6. the — for the reasons I have already explained, it is not possible to do so — and against the PS proposal, which aims to density, as it is now said, the question of fact-finding verifiers, but which, in fact, can only bury itself further in contradictions, because the more we want to convince ourselves that the State will not interfere in the verification of facts, the more the mark of the presence of that same State is noted. With the aggravating of the criteria defined by the State, so that a State-registered verifier can be supported by the State, it means that there is only one entity meeting these requirements. And, by chance, the founder of this single entity, exclusively dedicated to the verification of facts, the Polygraph, has already publicly said that he refuses to play that role in these conditions and that he will maintain — there he is! — its independence. We hope that the next debate will be constructive and that it will be an opportunity to clarify the positions and responsibilities of all political forces in this Chamber. This occasion is today, and not after summer, as I heard today seem to be the intention of the PSD, which, if you have doubts about this legislation, will not honor the memory of its militants, who have fought for freedom of expression in this country. Until, if freedom of expression is discussed here today, the truth is that the signs that other freedoms are not in good health either multiply. It is of concern to see the root of the so-called « culture of cancellation », an authoritarian, arrogant and counterproductive form of silence for political opponents. It is revealing how easy it is for Portugal, during the last 18 months of the pandemic, to banish the use of the state of emergency and to adopt restrictive measures of freedoms, both arbitrary and ineffective. And it is even more sad to see, now that the virus becomes endemic, the resistance in programming the rapid lifting of these measures. We all need to de-definite, re-live and do what we like most, for the sake of the country, the economy and our mental health. It is time to use our freedom again, exercising our responsibility. The Liberal Initiative will always be at the forefront of defending all individual freedoms. This defence will sometimes be difficult and long, but the first step we can take together today is easy and it is obvious: let us start today by defending freedom of expression; let us begin today by repealing this Article 6. o
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u23	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration of two Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa and Mr António Filipe. You have the floor, therefore, for a request for clarification, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, after listening to him, I doubt whether I have read or understood Article 6. that of the Charter, or if it was taken by a wave of parliamentary misinformation. Everyone recognises — I think you should also recognise — that the spread of deliberately false, misleading information at the speed of light constitutes a danger, a threat to our democracy and also our social peace. I read and reread Article 6. the and I confess that I do not see any hint of censorship, or institutionalization of censorship, as does not exist in relation to legislation that defends, for example, the information market or misleading information, or that defends our security of narratives that incite terrorism. By paraphrasing Mr President of the Republic, it may be found, in relation to the wording, that is better written, more ill-written, happier or unhappy, but no censorship.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u26	Only those who ignore what is misinformation and what is, too, the fact-checking could say, as you did to the exhaustion, that this article opens the door to censorship. And let's see what he tells us, point by point. First, it defines what information is, adopting an operational concept, which is that which is used in the European Union and which expressly excludes, contrary to what Mr said, opinions, errors in the provision of information, satire or parody.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u28	Secondly, it allows the right to complain to the ERC (Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) — which is, in spite of everything, an independent entity — such as any citizen today has the right to complain to the ERC when it comes to news printed in a newspaper, in paper, whether misleading or erroneous. So, in this matter, there is no great novelty either. Finally, it acknowledges that fact-checking, or data verification, is a useful activity in combating misinformation, so it should be supported and credible. And who makes this verification of acts? The state? Don't! It is expressly said that it is social communication, that you want to be free in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u30	And who assigns such collateral stamps? Is it the State? No, they are private entities with public utility status. Therefore, only those who have not read this article can claim with such vehemence that it opens the door to censorship. Finally, I would just like to ask you two questions. Do you or do you not recognize that misinformation is a threat to our democracy today? And if so, then what is the solution that you are proposing? Is it eliminating the only standard that protects us against this threat or is it keeping everything in it? After all, what does Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo propose to combat misinformation, which is a great threat to not only our democracy, but also to social peace in my opinion? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u31	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, recently I did not ask you how I intended to respond to requests for clarification. [[Pause.]] The honourable Member has informed the Bureau that he intends to answer one by one. You have the floor, therefore, to answer Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u32	Mr President, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, this is no longer the first time that the PS has asked me to study, or read better, to see if I realized... I will pass over what is involved, but I must tell you that one thing I am sure: you did not hear what I said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u33	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u34	He didn't hear it, no! When you say that what is in the proposal that the PS presented excludes political opinions... I ask you to read where that is. He's not there anywhere. He speaks in satire, speaks involuntary mistakes, speaks in humor, but does not speak in political opinions. Furthermore, as I said earlier in the gallery, it is scandalous that the European Plan specifically mentions that party opinions, clearly identified, are not covered by the definition of misinformation and that the PS project excludes that. Moreover, in several public debates with Mr. José Magalhães, father of this initiative, I challenged him to answer the question: "If anyone comes to propose that political opinions be part of the definition of misinformation, accept or not? » I'm still waiting for an answer today. So, Mrs. Member, that was the first thing I wanted to tell you. The second is to agree with you about the importance of fact-checkers, who have appeared without the government having to intervene, who exist without the support of the government, who do not need quality stamps, that nowhere, in those various countries I have quoted from the rostrum, there are assigned, informally or officially, anywhere, and that work! They have a very important role, but they do not need the protection of the state to exist. That's the point. Then he asked me if misinformation is a problem. It is obvious that it is a problem, but it is a problem that is not born with digital, and the way it is intensified in digital is particularly worrying, precisely in the areas with which the European Plan dealt with: the issues of threat to internal security and the democratic processes of the Member States, the external threats of large-scale propaganda by sovereign states. It is to read the European Plan carefully and realize that the concern is of major attacks and campaigns against the internal democracy of the Member States and not on the rights and freedoms of citizens within the Member States. So the solution is to do as we have done here: we educate people to know how to distinguish the truth from the lie and give them the tools, not only intellectual but also formal, to be able to distinguish one another. It is not to protect with official truths and to give a state entity any power to decide what is true or not. This is not possible to contemplate a healthy democracy, and that is what we do not want to happen in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u35	You also have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr António Filipe, from the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u36	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would like to say that we can not agree with everything you said in your speech, but we agree with the basis of the initiative here. In fact, when I say that we can not agree with everything is because it seems to us that it will be exaggerated to say that, under Law No. 27 / 2021, censorial mechanisms of the State are created. We are not going there, because, in fact, the discussion on census mechanisms would have much to say to you, because we know that there are informal census mechanisms, particularly through economic power, which controls the large media bodies, and therefore censorship is not an exclusive part of the State. But the State should not be censored, and that is what we agree with. We may disagree about the role of the State in society, but we agree that the role of the State should not be that of Article 6. the Law No 27 / 2021. And that is where the honourable Member has brought justice to the CFP and I want to do justice, in fact, to the Liberal Initiative, which, in the general debate, has drawn attention precisely to this aspect. The honourable Member is not a member of 1. the Commission and therefore did not, like the CFP, have the opportunity to vote against Article 6. at the time of the vote in the specialty, making our opposition clear. And at that time we said that the adoption of this Article 6. I would make it so that the CFP would not vote in favour of this Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, in a global final vote, and so we did. And we also understand the abstention vote of the Liberal Initiative in a similar way, namely that this law is not only that article, but in fact this Article 6. it is serious and, from our point of view, it should not have happened. Mr President, the question I would like to ask you is to share a perplexity with us. This perplexity is the delay in the published opinion on the seriousness of this Article 6. o. This legislative process lasted for months in the Assembly of the Republic, more than ten and a half entities spoke on this bill, the issue was discussed in 1. the Commission, where the CFP expressed its vote against Article 6. the, there was a global final vote, there was the promulgation by the President of the Republic, and only when the law was already published in the Diário da República and in force was a cry in the public communication, in the published opinion, which caused even parties that voted in favour of article 6. you are now proposing your revocation. For us, it was with perplexity that we saw this, it is not slow, it is to wake up out of hours by the generality of Portuguese social communication and published opinion. I should like to know what reading is that you make this slow reaction to something that is, in fact, negative, and on that I will say-CL-I will then, at the time of the intervention which I will make shortly. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u37	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u38	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, thank you very much for your question and for not based on the principle that I had not read or understood legislation. In fact, as you recall, this reaction to the retarder came, in fact, a little out of the way from the beginning of the discussion, but it came with a great volume... everyone, of course, who could not read or interpret the law that we discussed here today. I can't explain why it took so long. Media time is not always the political time we would like it to be, and perhaps the pandemic also has this condition of diverting attention from what may be truly important. But what is essential to recognize is that we now have the opportunity to correct. The numerous arguments and opinions that have been published on the risks to this legislation, and in particular Article 6 thereof. the, cannot be ignored. They're not all paranoid people, they're not people who think that behind each corner is a machiavelist machining. They are people who have thought enough about this and who recognize that, as it is about individual freedoms, the problem is to start, is to open the door, is to start a descending ramp that then allows all kinds of abuse. And the notion that Portugal is a country that needs more scrutiny, and not less, which needs more conflicting opinions, and not less, which needs less respect, and not more, is behind the proposal we are bringing here today. And I am glad to know that the CFP will accompany the repeal of this Article 6. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u39	To submit Bill No. 884 / XIV / 2. a, from the PS, has the floor Mr José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, adopted a few weeks ago, assumes, unequivocally, the need to combat the various types of misinformation. It is entirely natural that we strive to comply with the European Action Plan approved in 2018 in Portugal and therefore it is not worth dramatizing. The Plan is now being updated and has been applied, which will continue. In Portugal, the Digimedia, University of Aveiro, and the ICES ( Centre for Research and Studies in Sociology ), the ISCTE ( Higher Institute for Labour and Enterprise Sciences ), in Lisbon, and in Spain, the University of Navarra obtained the support of the European Commission to lead a consortium of 23 Portuguese and Spanish institutions that will create an observatory to investigate digital media and identify the threats of misinformation. With a financing of EUR 1, EUR 47 million, IBERIFIER ( Iberian Digital Media Research and Fact-Checking Hub ) is one of the eight regional hubs that will be part of the European Commission's European Digital Media Observatory, with a budget of EUR 11 million. IBERIFIER will study the characteristics and trends of the Iberian digital media ecosystem and develop computational technologies for early detection of misinformation, verify and refute — note well, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo! — the misinformation in the Iberian territory, reporting to the European Commission, preparing strategic reports on threats of misinformation, both for the public and for the authorities to know, too, well! — in Spain and Portugal and organise media literacy initiatives. I don't know if they knew about this, but if they didn't know, they'd know. But which of these tasks can be considered useless or pernicious? In our opinion, none; they are all advantageous. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot close our eyes and cross our arms. It cannot be said that the only solution is nothing to do, as we have heard here. With the Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Era, it is clear that Portugal condemns aberrations such as the apology of the ingestion of lexicon to Trump or the praise to hydroxychloroquin to the Bolsonaro. During months of debate in the Commission, we concluded that the Charter could not go side by side with the greatest pathology of our century, probably, but should also not deal in detail with the issue, for example, by anthology of existing criminal standards such as those concerning hate crimes. In fact, for a long time, certain types of misinformation have been punishable by imprisonment in Portugal. The Criminal Code in Article 240. , for example, puts a prison sentence which, publicly, by any means intended to disseminate, notably through the apology, denial or gross banalization of crimes of genocide, war or against peace and humanity, incite violence or hatred against persons or groups of people because of their race, colour, ethnic or national origin, descent religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or physical or psychological disability. For those who use cyberspace to defame or insult, Articles 180 shall apply. o, 181. o and 182. the Criminal Code. contrary to what seems to judge Mr. Cotrim de Figueiredo, the regulation of life in digital environment has started long ago and is expanding. This means that you have many proposed revocations to sign and present in this House. The strategy defined by the Charter is based on four pillars. The first is the call for citizens to exercise their right of free expression to question fake news. Instead of sharing them mechanically, it is preferable to confront opinions in a public square based on pluralism. And measures such as the social tariff for broadband internet access, which will soon be regulated, expand the borders of freedom, which is the main end of the Charter. The second pillar is the defense of press freedom, to which standards of quality and pluralism must be ensured. The third pillar is to strengthen the dynamics of fact verification and the use of stamps for the identification of quality digital publications if there are those interested in it in civil society. The fourth pillar is to ensure, in a digital environment, the right of citizens to complain against, for example, manifestations of the disease, which is a similar right to that already exists, since 2005 with the ERC, as regards traditional media, in paper and electronics. in a rule of law such as ours, where the April Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights are in force, the rules applicable to the response necessary to the misinformation are those instruments. Article 18. the Constitution determines that there can be no laws that, in an unnecessarily, inadequate or disproportionate way, limit the exercise of rights, freedoms and guarantees. The Charter respects these parameters, an important note from this point of view. We are seeing entities seeking the declaration of unconstitutionality of the diploma or this article of the diploma, which we find shocking, because the right to complain has to be framed by a law of two thirds and can therefore only be approved by an extended majority, especially with the votes of the PSD. We did not pass this law because we should not do so in the context of a simple letter of majority. Therefore, there will be no concrete application of this rule without having this approved qualified majority law, and there are several points to consider, including whether the ERC can account for the order, of course, that, until there is this two-thirds law, the Charter norm cannot be applied, I repeat. Will popular adherence to the mechanisms we propose be strong? Nobody knows. Let's hope so. And they're going to bloom bill-checking entities? It's happening. It is a free phenomenon, which began to exist before the Charter and which may now be more developed with the Charter, but always without intervention or command of the State, in a regime of self-regulation. Let me now address the most important aspect. When he explained the reasons that led him to promulgate, without hesitation, Law No. 27 / 2021, the President of the Republic presented a challenge to us: they discuss the deep factors that weaken journalism and press freedom. The phrase by Prof. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, in Madeira, was literally this: « If information is not economically and financially viable, it remains very fragile, and this fragility is not good for freedom of the press». Actually, you live in a state of digital shock. The old business model based on the sale of paper copies collapsed; the digital came in the form of free access sites, in the mid-1990s, and rooted the habit of reading without paying; digital advertising did not save traditional media, since users learned to install advertising blockers, ad-blockers. Now, they say the Reuters Institute and OberCom, more than two thirds of the major newspapers, 69 %, throughout the European Union and the United States are operating some kind of online paid access, a trend that has increased since 2017, especially in the United States. In Portugal, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case, but, even if it was, the new revenue has not stopped the tendency to pay bad and even to fire journalists. The eagerness of audiences leads to degrading journalistic pieces to capture clicks and make newspapers that scare and confuse. The digital advertising market is almost totally dominated by Facebook and Google. The paradox that makes misinformation especially dangerous may be synthesized like this: the verified and quality information is behind paywalls, so it is not accessible to those who cannot pay. In digital favelas and cyberspace arabals, easy access products made by human authors, robots, adders, deepfakes manufacturers, digital pirates of all kinds and others such. Is there an alternative to guarantee the future of journalism without being at the expense of multiplicating tolls? That is the big question. The pirate web is a temptation for those who cannot pay. According to OberCom-Reuters Digital News Initiative, the digital circulation paid increased in Portugal from 72 193 payers in 2020 to 107 704 in 2021, but from those who did not pay in 2020, 33, 4 % find unlikely and 44, 2 % find it highly unlikely to reverse their position in the future. That's what we're in, and it's a buggy problem. There have been 200 years on the approval of the first press law by the Constituent Deputies of Vintism and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to review the law in force, which is clearly not adapted to the digital transition. We must have the courage to do so at the next legislative session, after a deep, participatory debate and with as much consensus as possible, but without fear, because fear leads to inertia and inertia leads to the situation we live in. With regard to the regulation of Article 6. the, the PS is all less dogmatic. They arrived at 1. the Commission opinions and suggestions that deserve good discussion and we call for no one to turn back to this work. Hands to work, inertia is that we do not want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u41	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo was appointed to request clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u42	Mr President, Mr. José Magalhães, your speech was a mixture of obvious things that have little to do with what I said in my initial speech and with other things that are even more worrying to me. The obvious are those in which we are reminded that freedom of expression already has limits. You already have, yes, sir: you cannot defame, you cannot lie in the sense of perjury, fraud is limited, incitement to violence, incitement to crime... All that already exists, what does not exist is this possibility of searching the opinions of people only by someone considering them false. And we know that the notion of falsehood is not even something permanent and perennial. Just look at what happened in this pandemic: at the beginning of this pandemic, the masks were not even mandatory, there were vaccines that were not effective and now we have the same entities that doubted the origin of the virus asking for investigations on exactly where this virus was born. Things evolve and, if there is no debate, if there is no contradiction, we will not come to the truth. Then come to tell us that your Charter — or the Charter that inspired, as I know, to a large extent — is composed of four pillars and has immense... I told you that there are immense things that, although a little redundant, it is very good that they are contemplated to defend people's rights in digital space, but the problem is Article 6. Oh! The problem is Article 6. Oh! Every time you talk about this issue — it is no longer the first time now — there is always a time when it really reveals what your problem is, and today it has been reassessed with opinions from Trump and Bolsonaro. I am at ease, because you have never heard me defend positions from any of them, but I defend the right of people who have the same opinions as those who propagate them in digital space. Defendant, yes! It then came to do something particularly worrying: it came to draw the scenario of the misfortune of social communication, saying that it is not that social communication does not want, that it cannot, cannot, cannot, has no independence, has no economic viability. He is thus preparing the way for us to have no alternative but to put the social communication under the state skirts. This is the PS in a nutshell, in a nutshell — we are going to find such a big problem that only the state can save independent and free social communication. The honourable Member — I must return to it — continues without explaining why the Socialist Party did not exclude clearly political opinions from the definition of misinformation. Why? And why, despite the various possibilities that you have already had to introduce or acknowledge this gap, does not do so? That's very worrisome!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u43	To reply, Mr. José Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have many speeches to make, but now I will limit myself to the strictly necessary. And perhaps this is necessary: Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo did not refer to IBERIFIER, for hunting misinformation, dedicated to rebalancing misinformation on the Iberian scale. I do not know whether it has become too foolish, whether it is still preparing to revoke IBERIFIER or if it is thought that 1, 45 million is a despicable thing and if it is more concerned with ERC and its budgetary problems, but it is the right way to discuss the problem and to help solve it — not having a'magic evil'! Open... Therefore, the resistance to structures, in this case to the Iberian scale, is a rather petty way — we must say — to cross our arms, which is a frankly dangerous attitude. The other dangerous attitude that has been exemplified here is the speech on « you who want the ministry of truth». From time to time, Mr António Filipe also comes into this and, frankly, it is too much. In fact, what is needed to fight is the relativism of Trump, the theory of alternative facts: it is said that in the great opening session of the President there were more people than in the Obama session... there are photographs that reveal no. But I said the alternative fact that there were many more people, there is no doubt. And the alternative fact is hammered by Fox News until it enters the head of the 72 million that ended up voting on Mr Trump. So, alternative reality, it was post-truth... and if the democracies met the taste of the post-truth era, then an instrument of democratic truth is lost, there is no facts; that is what my congregation says it is. Yours will say no, another will say no, every bubble will say what you say and so on! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u45	It's called democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u46	This is the opposite of the democratic public square and the democratic public sphere. It is not a democracy, it is a set of straps in which the believers of each religion believe that their god is the only god, etc. etc. That's good for religion, but it's bad for democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u47	Last look: don't count on us for this discussion. Don't count! Nor do we get the idea that the solution is to statize everything in the media. In fact, the media complain that the government does not support the media in enough difficulties. And they come to tell us that we want to statize whatever it is? Oh, my God! ...Mr. Member, we don't want to! What we want is clear in the Government Programme and what we have proposed here. It was clear in the fight against dramatic situations during the COVID pandemic and must be in the next State budget. Let us rest assured, that the people will decide on this matter, as well as the parties who sit here. So no dramatism. Let's calmly take a look at what's really proposed and not play with ghosts, monsters and papals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u48	To present the draft law of the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The question that arose here during the debate is why the reaction to this matter may have been late, because it took some time, I would say that the most important thing is that we have arrived here. From that point of view, I welcome Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo and the Liberal Initiative for using your power agenda for this matter. We arrived here for a very simple reason: we arrived here because our country is still, and fortunately, a democracy, because there was scrutiny, because there was debate, because there was public opinion and published opinion which made us reflect on the decision we had made here and which led us, each one of us, to take a position in relation to it. The position of the CDS shall be that of revocation and elimination of this Article 6. o. I'd say it's not without previous weighting. We have done our weighting and have made our way to reach this conclusion. But if I had any doubts about the path we have taken and the decision we have taken here, I would say that this last speech by Mr José Magalhães would remove any doubt about the matter. It is easy to understand why, Mr. Deputies. As regards freedom of expression, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo has made an intervention, in some respects, proclaiming, on issues of freedom and freedom of expression. And I would say that the debates on freedom of expression are going, in essence, in the end, to always give to the one who is the most famous quote in the world on freedom of expression, attributed to Voltaire — there are those who say no — who are based on the idea that I can not agree with what he says, but would give my life so that I could say it. This is the essential issue in freedom of expression. And Mr. José Magalhães, in explaining and defending his project here, finally acknowledges that, in order to use an expression of his party colleague, the 'irritant' for you is the existence of political opinions with which he does not agree, however absurd they are! It is clear that to me, too, much of what is said and what has been said by Mr Trump or Mr Bolsonaro is absurd and unacceptable. But, returning to Voltaire, they have the right to say. They have the right to say in democracy and freedom, because that is really democracy. We may not agree at all with some of our opponents, but we must recognize the right of contradiction and different opinions. That is the essential point, Mr President. Let us, for example, apply to this debate, in particular, your diploma. This matter arose because a media agency—and it was not one of the country's most important media agencies—raised it, and came to use it to open this discussion. That communication body at the time said that Article 6. it was the institution of censorship. I think it is not and at the time in the Commission I said it. I said it raised problems, and the CDS abstained. I said in the Commission that there were doubts about the role of the State in this area, but I also did not think it was the institution of censorship; I think we are thousands of them. However, the statement of who said « this Article 6. it is the institution of censorship", by the criterion of the law itself, was considered as fakenews and therefore could not exist, since we would not even arrive at this discussion here and obviously have a limitation of freedom, as is evident.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u50	It's an opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u51	Mr President, the problem is always who owns the truth. And in a democracy, there are no owners of the truth, no one can be the owner of the truth! And I obviously say that I don't trust the government, the Socialist Party, or the state to tell us what is true or what is a lie. Let's let the normal democratic juice exist. Mr. José Magalhães said and Mrs. Constance Urbano de Sousa also said that there are already limitations to freedom of expression. Of course there are. But I think that if you say that there is already, then let us be what is, then perhaps, we must not move anymore, we must not create new limitations on freedom of expression beyond those that already exist. And in this kind of matter, I do not know the problem that exists, especially when this type of matter is State policy. They are often state policies to cause damage to democracies and other states. But how do we have to deal with this, sir? That is exactly how we deal with, for example, the issues of terrorism in criminal matters. These behaviors must be criminalized. They have to be crimes! That's where we have to deal with that. That is, the spread of false information, with a view to launching a pandemic or increasing a pandemic, the information of appeal to hatred, racism, terrorism, whatever it is, is criminally that this matter should be dealt with rather than in the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. This is a Charter which is generally positive. The focus and debate we had at the time focused very much on copyright, and that was where our focus was focused. And I must say that I have no problem approving the Charter in general, and I maintain its approval in general. But this Article 6. not only is it not necessary as it does not bring anything good, as it is, of course, to eliminate it in order not to allow this doubt and this lack of confidence in the state and in matters of truth. The debate on this subject and the reflection we have made on the various bills that are under discussion would have two possible ways. One, that of the Socialist Party, although with a different solution to some extent from the NAP proposal to seek clarification, to seek to introduce and correspond to the European intention, clarifying the doubts — because of course they exist. Therefore, the PS brings us a proposal and therefore the NAP also brings us a proposal. We looked at that path, but, frankly, the conclusion we came to is that doubt would always remain. There is no way to find a good solution to an idea which, in itself, is negative. What is the state going to say? « This is good social communication, that is evil »? « This is the one who tells the truth, this one has a quality stamp, the other has no quality stamp»? It's wrong! And it is above all wrong for some of the reasons that you said here, which we probably will not have the same conclusion. But the fact itself—there it is! — it is as follows: we now have extremely fragile and power-dependent social communication, which is not good, is bad. Being the power to finance social communication is bad, and the good media do not even want it, they want to be independent of the political power, the state and the state money. That is the good social communication in freedom and democracy. And limiting parliamentary scrutiny is a fragility of our democracy and has also happened. Above all, give the State the right to say "this is true, that is a lie; these are doing good, those are doing evil! » is a mistake! We limit ourselves to crime, we limit ourselves to what must be effectively rejected, whether defamation, whatever it is, or abuse—often they are not even about fake news, they are about real facts that violate privacy and which, by doing so, attack and seek to destroy people. We've seen that many times. We have seen it - even very recently - I think we know what I am talking about - and it is deplorable! Therefore, this is the right way and not the way of Article 6. o. Seen and weighed, we think it should be revoked. And we're not the only ones. If the gentlemen. Members see, the ERC itself does not seem to follow in any way the project that the Socialist Party brings to us today and the Advocates' Order speaks in « dubious constitutionality», by limiting the right to information and freedom of expression. That is why we find the following: let's keep the Charter, delete this Article 6. we leave for other diplomas, especially in criminal matters, to deal with what are crimes and what are attacks on democracy, human rights or individual rights. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP and from Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u52	Mr Telmo Correia, two Members have written to make requests for clarification. Deputies Porfirio Silva, of the PS, and João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL. I don't know how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u53	Mr President, considering that I have only 18 seconds already, perhaps it is better to answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u54	Of course. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u55	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, the first question I would like to ask you is this: how does the honourable Member agree with what he has just said, and who has said, with the vote in favour of the CDS-PP of Resolution No 50 / 2019, of the Assembly of the Republic, which basically provides for what is set out in Article 6. in terms of public policies recommended? I'd like you to explain that to us, so we can understand this revolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u57	Mr President, I am starting from the principle that we are all with good intentions, but perhaps not all of us have understood what is at stake. So perhaps by pulling those issues which, in terms of professional deformation, I am more interested in, I would like to ask you a practical question. We all have known for several years the deepfake of Barack Obama — supposedly a communication from the former U.S. President. A deepfake is a video made with artificial intelligence tools, where all parts seem true, but in which the set is completely false.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u58	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u59	The expressions are false, the lips are false, the words are false, the tone is false, but overall, everything seems true and it is impossible, the naked eye, to detect that it is a deepfake. Obama's Deepfake was an experience of researchers and, in this sense, harmless. But now, let's imagine that someone makes and spreads a Deepfake from the President of the Republic to appeal to the immediate take of Olivence by force, or a Deepfake from the Prime Minister to appeal to the assault of the CDS headquarters in Caldas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u60	It's happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u61	... or a Deepfake of the PCP Secretary-General to appeal to the force taken by the Palace of Saint Benedict to end bourgeois democracy, or even a deepfake of a well-known television shower, who likes to wink his eye when he closes the televisions, to report that Lisbon was completely torn apart by an earthquake during the night and that no one survived. Let us also imagine that any of these maneuvers is supported or disseminated by an army of false profiles, by those that already exist or by others that do not exist. Is this freedom of expression? Can't you do anything? Do we sit down and see what happens? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Should any of these actions be protected by freedom of expression? We must do nothing against freedom of expression, but it cannot be worth everything in the name of freedom of expression!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u63	Digital, combined networks and combined artificial intelligence represent clearly new and gigantic challenges for democracies. Disinformation is a real threat. In the PS, we are not dogmatic about the best solutions and we are perfectly open to understand that we have not found the powder and that we have to work all to "discover the powder" in this matter. What we cannot afford is to do nothing and what the CDS proposes is that we do nothing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The legal framework for democracies already assumes that it is not worth everything in the name of freedom of expression. There is already European legislation which, although it is not yet in force, is already in force and which takes the time to remove terrorist content from online sites. I repeat, there is already legislation that gives a deadline for that. In order to protect economic rights, we are working in the Assembly of the Republic in the field of specialty, working on two draft laws to control, take off the line and prevent the publication of false financial information, including misleading information on credits and investments. What do you want? They want the projects that are under discussion to reinforce what already exists and to be able to act preventively, taking out content from both traditional media bodies and online sites. in this sense, I ask the following question: do we have to do something to protect economic rights and do not have to do anything to protect democracy? This was another question I'd like you to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u64	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u65	Mr Telmo Correia, we understand clearly that we will not always agree with the President of the Republic, but the fact that the President of the Republic has clearly said that he did not see in Article 6. the, not a bit of censorship, nor a bit of state control should make us reflect. And you know why I said it? Because the current President of the Republic is a man of social communication and freedom of expression since the time when censorship was serious. at that time, he did not play with the word 'censorship'! These people know what she is and don't come here mixing beautiful words with trying not to do anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'd like to understand why the CDS doesn't answer these questions that are on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u66	For a request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u67	Mr President, I would like to see Mr Telmo Correia respond to this in 18 seconds. I am not going to blow it up much, but I cannot help but comment on a few things that Mr Porfirio Silva has just said. All the examples of deepfakes you have given are already covered by the law. All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u69	So it makes absolutely no sense to shake these ghosts, as if it were the first time in the history of democracy, which we have to confront with something like this. Let the law work! Mr, what is in Article 6. it is quite different, it is something that establishes a definition of 'disinformation' which does not include political opinion. Taking advantage of the fact that Mr Telmo Correia, leader of the CDS parliamentary board, has put forward a proposal identical to mine, I will not ask you a question because it would be a bit redundant, I will first make the devil's lawyer. Mr Telmo Correia, don't you think maybe you and I are seeing something wrong? Maybe, this law gives us a good deal! Mr. José Magalhães is very concerned about the photographs Mr. Trump put in, saying he had more people at his inauguration than Mr. Obama had.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u70	It was just an example!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u71	Today morning, I opened the Polygraph website and, on the first two pages, eight situations were described in which Minister Eduardo Cabrite had lied! Perhaps, this was a good opportunity for us to force government remodeling, since the Prime Minister does not seem to want to do so. Maybe, we're seeing something wrong, Mr Telmo Correia! Would this not give us any way to remodel the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u72	You have the floor to answer, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u73	Mr President, I would like to begin with this last question by Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, which I welcome. In fact, we follow the position of the Liberal Initiative on this matter and I take advantage of it to say the following: it is good that there are no owners of the truth, because, if there were, probably, the lies that, for example, Minister Eduardo Cabrite has said would not be systematically unmasked. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] But, Mr President, I would like to tell you one more thing that is interesting and relevant to Mr Porfirio Silva, if he is able to hear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u74	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u75	The examples were from countries such as the United States, Brazil, etc. We're both suspicious, I think, of being followers of any of these politicians...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u76	That's it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u77	But the country where, curiously, the internet was recently put down, not to question a regime, was Cuba. in this country, there was a need to erase the Internet so democracy would not be heard. In Brazil and the United States, despite everything, there is internet, there is freedom of expression and this was not called into question. So the examples are wrong and I believe that this answers in some way to the question if we are going to see it right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u78	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u79	Even to finish and not to leave Mr. Porfirio Silva with no answer, I would just like to say the following...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u80	The 9 seconds have already turned into 1 minute and 17 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u81	Mr President, if I may, I will try to be as synthetic as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u82	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u83	Mr President, I just wanted to say the following: the assault on the CDS headquarters has already happened, it has been a crime and it has not been, at least, there needs to be an internet for someone to call it and go there. We had that experience! As far as you're concerned... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr. Deputies, be able to hear! Do not give me lessons in democracy when you can't even hear others!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u84	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude! You've exceeded your time in a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u85	Mr President, we are not against the fight against misinformation, but we believe that the examples you have given are already criminal and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u86	Mr. Deputies, you really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u87	Mr President, « whoever does not want to be a wolf does not wear his skin»! You have put on the skin of the attack on freedom of expression and the attack on democracy. That's the truth and that's what causes you so nervous and so uncomfortable! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u88	Mr Nelson Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor to present Bill No. 914 / XIV / 2. a — Amended Act No 27 / 2021 of 17 May approving the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age and to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Good afternoon to all and to all. The Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, which emerged on a proposal from the NAP, brings a set of unequivocal advances that protect people and their rights in the digital era. This Charter ensures more democratic access to the Internet by consecrating a social tariff, protecting people and their lives in a digital context by, for example, dedicating the right to identity and forgetfulness, which allows the citizen to see his digital spot erased in sensitive cases, or even the right to protection against abusive geolocation. This law also protects citizens as consumers, since it enshrines the right to the neutrality of the Internet, something which is a very important step forward, even if it remains beyond what the NAP has been defending, since it does not prohibit and imposes the practices of abusive zero-rating by communications operators who currently have a white paper to offer packages with artificially low data to force subscription of such packages. This is a practice which violates precisely this right of neutral access, which calls into question the rights of consumers and which meets the principles of competition. This law is not a manifest of intent, it is a consequent law, since it created a digital popular action that allows citizens to ensure the protection of all rights recognized by themselves in the courts, when they are violated, by whoever they are. Well, the Liberal Initiative could have presented its draft letter, when last year it gave its discussion, but it did not. It could have reopened the discussion on this diploma to join the NAP in defending consumers and, for example, to defend the prohibition and punishment of unfair zero-rating practices by operators, but not. The Liberal Initiative decided to launch this debate in search of easy soundbite, choosing to make a storm in a glass of water and to move what is enshrined in the Charter, speaking in censorship. How can you speak of censorship when the Charter itself expressly mentions in Article 4. the right of citizens to express and disseminate their thoughts, to disseminate opinions and information without any form of censorship? I repeat: without any kind or form of censorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u90	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u91	How can you speak of censorship when in Article 8. the, if it mentions the right to exercise civil and political freedoms without censorship or discrimination or when, in Article 3. if they prevent discrimination in free access to the Internet, depending on political or ideological convictions? How can we speak of censorship in a diploma in which, for the first time, it is stated that in the digital environment, citizens have the right to free intellectual, artistic, scientific and technical creation, the right to assembly, demonstration, association and participation and the right to use digital means for the organization and dissemination of civic actions? It is important that, in this debate, it is not ignored that any interpretation or application of the law which translates, even if remotely, into censorship will always violate this law and can be syndicated by judicial means. Therefore, this is not only a law that institutionalizes censorship on the Internet, as it is a law that protects citizens against this censorship, it comes from where it comes from. But today we cannot stop talking about a proposal by the Socialist Party, approved in the specialty, which links to the so-called « quality stamps ». There are two things to say about this. On the one hand, it must be said clearly that this seal cannot be used to challenge the right to protection against misinformation. Disinformation is a problem that we have already seen can call into question our democracy and there, yes, our freedoms and the right to free choice, as we have recently seen in the United States, or as we have seen with regard to the COVID-19 itself. The norm in the proposed terms—and excluding the familiar seal—is limited to dedicating in our country the recommendations of the European Union in this area, recognised for example through the 2018 European Plan to Combat Disinformation, which had to be transposed into our legal order. On the other hand, it must be said that the consecration into the law of this seal, proposed by the Socialist Party, can give rise to wrong and dangerous interpretations that do not comply with the intention of the legislator and that may be violators of some of its provisions. So today, and in order not to be fed any more misconceptions, we propose its elimination. These stamps can and should exist within the framework of civil society. It is not necessary for the law to provide for them, nor is the state or government to protect them. In Spain, the reference newspapers have been subject for years to such stamps associated with factor-checking mechanisms from civil society. In Portugal, various media adopt facts-checking mechanisms or, freely, they are subject to them. Therefore, these mechanisms already exist, work well and must, as they have been, continue within the framework of civil society and social media bodies. In parallel, and for there to be no doubt, the NAP also wants to clarify and clarify what is meant by misinformation. As we defend in our initial project, it will be understood that the cases of information manufactured or imprecise, of the use of automatic accounts for astroturfing, of the use of networks of false followers, of targeted communications, based on algorithm, profiling and organized trolling will be subsumed to this term. Without demagogy, without soundbits, but also without excesses of statism, we want to ensure that the Internet is, for citizens, a means of access to free, fair and secure information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u92	Sir, you have no requests for clarification. So, for one speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr DOS Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Liberal Initiative for having reconsidered to debate such an important issue as the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, which was approved by Law No 27 / 2021. As already mentioned today, Article 6. this legal diploma was the subject of widespread controversy both in the media and in the public opinion in general. In fact, it was precisely because of Article 6. what The Greens eventually abstained when the proposal was the subject of a comprehensive final vote in this plenary. And we were so right that parties that voted in favour of the approved text, such as the CDS-PP, which now proposes, and well, the repeal of the controversial Article 6. the, or as the PS or the NAP, who were authors of the proposals that were at the origin of the law, have now also felt the need to make changes to the regime of Article 6. o. In fact, and in the reading of the Greens, this article gives rise to some sort of censorship. As the Advocates' Order states in its opinion on this matter, 'the apparent authorisation of the control of information content(...) is something that can only happen in absolutely exceptional circumstances. In a rule of law (... ) administrative control of information is not admissible. » That is what the Lawyer’s Order says in his opinion. In other words, Article 6. this legal diploma is at least dubious constitutionality, especially if we comply with what determines Article 37. that of our Constitution, which, in addition to raising freedom of expression and information to fundamental rights, makes it clear that the exercise of freedom of expression and information cannot be prevented or limited by any type or form of censorship. However, by determining in paragraph 1 that « The State shall ensure compliance in Portugal with the European Action Plan against Disinformation (... ) » this Article 6. it seems to wish to refer us to a real-life bottle coming from an organism that does not, in fact, have great credits to talk about it or to promote plans to combat misinformation. Moreover, it is enough to take care of the liturgy of the European Union, which is said to be the regions of the citizens, but which in fact is literally transformed into an instrument of neoliberalism, where people little or nothing count, what matters are the big business and the interests of the big bankers. But this is not the truth that is told to Europeans, what is being systematically being said is the advantages and facts of a European construction which, in fact, continues to accentuate social inequalities between citizens and also among the peoples of the various Member States. The Greens, in addition to their doubts regarding the conformity of Article 6. the fundamental law of our country does not, of course, reveal itself in this bottle of European truths and therefore we consider that the best solution simply goes through the repeal of Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. Therefore, although for different reasons, we follow the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, and certainly also for different reasons, even because of what Mr Telmo Correia has said, we follow the proposal of the CDS, to repeal Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. With regard to the proposals of the PS and the NAP, I would like to say that they have left out the question which is essential for the Greens in this discussion and which concerns exactly the repeal of this rule. In fact, both the PS proposal and the NAP proposal are completely in line with the repeal of Article 6. The Charter. Without prejudice to any clarification that the PS proposal may wish, in particular in terms of the terms in which State support may occur to the entities referred to in Article 6. the, or even at the level of the quality seal, the truth is, however, that by establishing a set of entities that are exempted from the requirements for the granting of support, it raises some problems, as well noted by the Advocates' Order. It raises problems, of course, because it beautifies the general and abstract nature of the legal rules, but also because the Socialist Party's proposal establishes first and second entities, violating the constitutional principle of equality. Let us see: we have entities that, by complying with the requirements, get the stamp and support, but these entities, in the future, if they fail to comply with the requirements, lose that status. In turn, the entities referred to in Article 4 ( 2 ). that of the PS bill, regardless of whether or not they comply with the requirements, will continue to benefit from this status. Therefore, both in the case of the PS proposal and in the case of the NAP proposal, it seems to us that it is « worse the amendment than the sound ». In any event, what is important is that, in the perspective of the Greens, what is required is to repeal Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age and do not proceed to these loose remedies proposed to us by the PS and the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u94	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has various leads which were also evident in the various interventions and even in the projects on the table. The Liberal Initiative sums up its claim to want to end an Internet censorship. I must say that from the reading of Article 6. we don't get to that perception. One thing is to mention a division of what is considered legitimate on the Internet, another thing is to say that there is a censorship, which is quite different, that we already know in the past and that we do not have good memory or want to repeat, but that we cannot compare with what is provided for in Article 6. o. Article 6. it is, in itself, a political and ideological choice about how to respond to the problem of fake news. What we do not accept is this vision that the Liberal Initiative brings to us, saying that, if this problem exists, it is the market, it is the free agents, it is the people, individually, or the organizations, individually, who must respond to this problem. No, we don't. Currently, there are more people who have access to information through social networks than through information agencies, whether televisions, written media bodies, even radios, etc. From that point of view, if we do not take into account the result that misinformation campaigns may have, we are helping the Trumps and the Bolsonaros of this life, which will not be the last to test these mass misinformation campaigns, they can synchronise with ways to derail the access, the legitimate one, from people to the truth, transforming it into that old saying that it is « we shall see who has the truth». Now, the truth is the facts and this idea that she is in constant dispute means that she is in dispute in opinions, but not in front of the facts. It is true that facts, such as science, can have developments, be reviewed, etc. , but there is a credibility that is recognized for information that has centuries of history in particular in the way it is validated. in this sense, the suspicion that the Liberal Initiative itself raises about the ERC, even though we differ from the ERC in some of its decisions, does not seem acceptable in this context. As I said, we have no idea that Article 6. it is a censorship of the internet and therefore we will not follow its revocation, so simply, because that would also give a self-road so that misinformation campaigns and fake news could exist without any kind of defense of citizens or citizens. But there are other issues that arise, as I mentioned at the outset, and some even brought to this debate by the Socialist Party. The answer to the fake news is not given alone with what is brought to us in Article 6. the, contrary to what the PS seems to try to present to us. in the same way, the responsibility for fake news campaigns is not just an abstract responsibility of entities we do not know or even sometimes some villains. Don't! It has, in the business model of many social networking platforms and its algorithms, an integral part and a determining role in the dissemination. And, therefore, it is impressive as either in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, or in this bill, in particular, there is no single finger raised as to the responsibilities of social networks. It doesn't exist! Then, on the other hand, there are several structural problems which the information society brings, as new challenges, to the media. It is said: “well, but nowadays those who hold almost all advertising revenues on the Internet are the ‘ Facebook’, ‘ Google’, ‘ Amazon’ of this life’. It's true! And what does the PS do about it? Zero! This is the problem! When it comes to going to the money, which is what's at stake here, because it's business that we're talking about, the PS makes zero. When the Left Block proposed the creation of a tax on these great multinationals, to ensure that they did not make money with the rights and knowledge of the data that were from all of us, the PS voted against. However, this shows how, in fact, some of the great leaders of the misinformation campaigns and some of the great beneficiaries of the misinformation campaigns continue to live happily and benefit from their business plan, their algorithms. On this matter, the PS does nothing, but sees another problem, which is the following: the media bodies, the result of this mass income deviation for these large multinationals, are running out of income and this raises a fundamental issue in a rule of law, which is the maintenance of the media organs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u96	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u97	It is a problem, and we follow it. But in this respect, the Socialist Party's big response is that the media agencies, then, get a bill-checking department, which we pay for. Is that the core business, is that the objective, the reason for the existence of a media agency? Is that what we need to protect? Don't! [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Who has bill-checking departments, who does this service, which is a public service, should be paid for that? You must! It must be paid for this, but public support should not be left alone and only for that. It is also that a media agency can and should have the freedom to say « we do not want to participate in such initiatives ». But with this, the one who is the core of his activity remains totally unprotected from state support. This is another brutal difference we have in relation to the Liberal Initiative. Should the State support social communication? You must! You must, yes, sir! It must do so, by obliging to pay taxes to those who currently do not pay — Google, Facebook and company — but must also do so, guaranteeing the digital literacy of people and promoting, for example, as the Left Block already proposed, the access of students, of certain spaces of society, to digital subscriptions of newspapers. But would they be signatures decided by the State, indicated by the State? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There should indeed be the promotion of such participation in knowledge, which is access to a digital communication body. On this point, the Liberal Initiative says: « we do not want any statistics! » But not to want any statism is to benefit the great of the custom: Google, Facebook, Amazon, etc. Well, that's not what we're after. Having said that, our concern is that people are guaranteed rights, not eliminating others. There is one thing I have forgotten to mention at the beginning, but I said-CL-I have now, at the end of the speech, that is the answer to that basic question by Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, when he says: « well, but my political rights will be in question with this Article 6. o? » You will not be able to promote the roots or sardines you want, digitally or physically, without any problem with this matter. And this, for a very simple reason: these rights are constitutional, they are above this law and cannot be repealed by this law. [[IL protests.]] More, and from this point of view, strange until the PS has given this answer, which is the obvious one on the table: here we promote the right to defend people, which currently does not exist. There is a space for a huge oppression in which you can launch a fake news campaign about someone and one year, two years, five years later the person is defended by the blade thrown to his good name. I end up, as I promised, saying only and only that we do not see ourselves, at all, in the proposals of the PS and the PAN. In the debate, in the field of expertise, we will have the possibility of trying to deepen and, therefore, we will abstain from voting on these two proposals. In the case of the PS proposal, it will go down to the committee without a vote, but I have no problem with indicating the way in which it would be voted in general. In the case of the proposals of the Liberal Initiative and the CDS, as I said, they are analogous to their objectives, we differ from them and we will therefore vote against them. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u98	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you and all those present in the Chamber. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the Liberal Initiative for bringing this issue to debate. We must start by saying this: no European country has such a rule. None! There is no country in Europe with such a rule as they want to bring here. They say it's innovative, but it has a name: censorship! That's what they want to bring to Portugal! They want to make the Polygraph, SIC, and Truth Time, TVI, the new instruments of what will be the censorship of the state. Mr Porfirio Silva, spoke of Trump and Bolsonaro and gave several information that would be absolutely false.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u100	I didn't say no! Don't be a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u101	Yeah, let me tell you the following: do you know who said that there was no lack of protective material in hospitals? It was Antonio Costa! Do you know who said that there are no more police in Portugal without adequate subsidies? It was Antonio Costa! Do you know who said in Portugal that all home workers were vaccinated? [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] It was your Prime Minister, who blatantly lied to the whole country and, if we had rules like those you want to approve here, it would be immediately revoked from the internet. But friends, stop bullshit! They want to impose on social networks in Portugal the greatest of the censorships against this country, but let me give you some bad news: it is not a rule of Facebook, neither of Google nor of Youtube that will prevent the growth of those you do not want to grow, because the rule, the implantation, is in all the towns and cities of this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u102	What a sadness!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u103	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u104	I will finish, Madam President. They can approve the rules they want, they will not control, nor will they be able to prevent your government from falling and that the citizens' movement can one day take this country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u105	Mr. Deputies, you really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u106	... because this country is still ours and this country is very unhappy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u107	When do you pay the fine? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u108	When Socrates is arrested I pay a fine!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u109	You son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u110	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Aragão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Mr. André Ventura, please put the mask on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After this quixotesque drift on the pope bug of the Socialist Party, we may need to refocus the debate. Therefore, let me repeat what I had said at the plenary session of 1 October 2020 in the discussion debate of the Charter of Fundamental Rights: "A letter of rights in this context is the requirement of a new age, that the pandemic did not discover, but which definitely accelerated. The technological and digital revolution is happening at a faster rate. Lose it, being aware of it, or ignoring it, not discussing it, is to move the country and citizens away from an inevitable revolution and, moreover, necessary. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Despite doubts about your opportunity, this document deserves broad acceptance today. Materials as central as the right to privacy of personal data or the right to forget, just to cite some examples, deserve unequivocal recognition. There are now doubts about a specific article, Article 6. the, relating to the right to protection against misinformation. The concept of misinformation is, of course, questioned, as if a new concept of dealing with it. It is not, at all, and it has acquired a strong relevance in recent months. Let us consider a specific example: the COVID-19 brought about a quite organized and coordinated negationist group trailer that called into question the existence of a pandemic, a lethal virus for many people, scientific results and data, and the importance of vaccination and its effectiveness. On combating this misinformation, how many public initiatives have not been adopted? How many data confirmation processes have not been encouraged? How much public investment has not been made in this fight? It is the effects of this pandemic that we all feel that they do not raise doubts or reservations about the importance of these actions. For the Socialist Party, restrictions on freedom of expression which may result from Article 6. it is justified by the need to protect other equally relevant values and should only be admitted in the most obvious, obvious and serious cases of attack on the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u113	The prohibition of judgements of value or opinions is not at issue. The intention is to combat the disclosure of facts objectively incompatible with reality. in this sense, it is appropriate to seek to operationalize mechanisms to combat misinformation, fundamental to the quality of our life in society. It is also clear to us that these mechanisms and their regulations cannot raise doubts about democratic processes and their transparency. The search for this balance is complex but necessary. So let's do a fact check: the matter is imposed? Confirm. Is your discussion complex? Confirm. Is misinformation a real phenomenon? Confirm. We continue the same exercise of fact-checking: has the European Union signalled misinformation as a central issue? Confirm. Has a European Action Plan been drawn up against Disinformation? Confirm. Has the European Court of Auditors also dealt with this issue? Confirm. Has he drawn up a report called Disinformation in the European Union: combatted phenomenon, but not controlled? Confirm. Has a number of countries sought to find combat mechanisms? Confirm. The definition of these mechanisms is indeed complex and the participation of independent entities is essential, as is proposed. As Daniel Innerity well reflects, and I quote: "It is, of course, indefensible that we give power to specialists, because democracy is not a regime in which those who know, among other reasons, are sent, because it is not decided, in advance, who know. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Innerarity is right: even non-specialists have the right to an opinion. This is not what is at issue in Article 6. o
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u114	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u115	One thing is certain: the denial of serious problems inherent in misinformation is not the way. We will continue, therefore, and we must continue to seek solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u116	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u117	Finally! After all, PSD exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u118	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I did not think so much of a longing for this Parliament waiting for the intervention of the PSD! But let's go to her. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, begin by welcoming the schedule promoted by Mr. Deputies of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, and the bills that followed him. The freedom of expression that the Portuguese under 40 used to use with the same ease as they breathe is a conquest and is a conquest of democracy, of our democracy, and so relevant that I risk saying that there is no full democracy without freedom of expression. However, freedom of expression is like health, gains increasing relevance to the extent that it lacks or is threatened. And so here I remember the Cuban people, the Venezuelan people, the Chinese, the Russians, the North Koreans, people to whom this lack of democratic health affects so much. The dual relevance of freedom of expression, on the one hand, individual freedom, rests with everyone and every citizen and, on the other, freedom of expression, as the assumption of the democratic regime, has constitutional acceptance, jurisprudence and increasingly in the context of human rights and the European court giving it a voice. But freedom of expression is dynamic, as dynamic is the reading and interpretation of this fundamental right. First of all, I would like to recall that the so-called "defence of freedom of expression" is first of all to guarantee the right to criticism. Commendations do not require legal protection, but do not sell newspapers or burn passions. In other words, freedom of expression is the freedom to express criticism, opposition, censorship, if not even accusation, more or less founded. Curiously, in the confrontation between freedom of expression and right to good name or honor of people or institutions, that one has come to gain space of affirmation, in particular, for those who, like us, politicians, penetrate the arena of little democratic space, and we know how it is. This evolution of freedom of expression has had a huge impact with the entry of the digital world, where the amplitude and consequences of what is said, shows or writes wins, easily, global contours. But let's be clear: the intransigent defense of the freedom of online or digital expression must, by principle, have the same defense in the analog or offline world. Within the limits of the law, which are few and must be interpreted in a restrictive way, my opinion or freedom of expression must be respected and guaranteed, either to one, to one thousand or to one hundred million people or recipients and whatever platform or means of dissemination used. Having said this and without prejudice to better opinion, what we should be concerned about is not only the defence and limits of freedom of expression, but rather the forms and formulas of communication that have no face, have no precedence nor even any human being who creates or disseminates them. The Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age— whose first authorship falls to Mr. José Magalhães, but that he is not the only father—has known a long and participated legislative process, which, being commendable, does not fail to replicate and bring to the national debate a topic that occupies and worries the global world and the main European institutions and not only. Yes, we want and we are all interested in the fact that cyberspace has rights, freedoms and guarantees. Yes, we will be interested in the circulation and confrontation of ideas and even in the right to forget in the digital world. So complex and ambitious is the debate and the fight for freedom of expression as it is equally necessary and urgent to fight against misinformation and banish the information manufactured, the use of false networks of followers or organized trolley, for example. But how to separate the wheat from the juicy? Which entities should promote this separation? In the fear, justified, of delivering such a task to private persons, but with equal and justified phobia to the public domain, of this surgical fundamental rights incursion, we look for compromise solutions that the tens of entities heard in this legislative process did not want or could not bring. If this debate has already begun, it must not end today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u120	It would be reductive and frustrating that it would end up with apparent winners and apparent winners won next Thursday and with the widespread conviction that we were all defeated by the beginning of the debate in the last few weeks. I'm glad it won't. Recent history has already proved that misinformation can defeat democracy. After all, if information is power, misinformation can also be power. It is time for democracy to continue to speak and it is for this debate that we are ready. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u121	The Bureau no longer registers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u122	You don't want to say anything else? Oh, my God! Is that it? Oh, my God! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u123	Mr António Filipe pointed out to me that he had asked for the floor earlier, but there was a change of desk secretaries and the information they gave me was that the debate ended with Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira. Therefore, if Mr António Filipe had asked for the floor, I would like to put the floor immediately, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u124	Mr President, in fact, it was even strange that I had not been given the floor because I had already been enrolled for quite a while for an intervention. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Duarte Alves said recently, with grace, that this debate is transformed into a debate among the artists, who defend Article 6. that of the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, and those who on 20 July defend their revocation, i.e. the « 20th». This has become an extreme debate, but this subject deserves, indeed, a serious debate, an elevated debate on the seriousness of what is at stake and on the search for serious and real solutions to this problem. However, Article 6. the, from our point of view, does not help this discussion, because it is an inadequate solution. Indeed, the falsity of information is a very serious problem of contemporary societies and, of course, democracy. It is a serious social and political problem. We are not talking about differences of opinion, of course, but of phenomena, which we do not ignore, of false photographic assemblies, of truncations, of falsehoods aimed at gaining support for campaigns of opinion, for unrecommendable political projects, for negationist projects of the most diverse type, for conspiracy theories. And this is all the more aggravated not by social networks themselves, but by the technological possibilities they have, which are used and abused, especially with hundreds of thousands of false profiles, to disseminate false information. This is a problem and, indeed, it has not yet been found in democracy how to effectively combat these phenomena, because they are also, of course, passed through the technological means of telecommunications operators and the social networks themselves, in particular the technological possibilities they have to intervene or stop intervening in this matter. Therefore, this is a problem that must be discussed. There are, of course, other problems. We know that a crime is a crime. A defamation crime is a defamation crime whether it is committed at present or committed by social media or social networks. However, it is obvious that, with the massification of social networks, justice does not yet have practical and legal means to eliminate impunity that exists in the practice of crimes through, inter alia, social networks. This is, in fact, a problem that must be seriously discussed. Now, it is also clear that false news has not been born with social networks, they coexist with social networks. How many times social media agencies spread false news that they have obtained through social networks and that pass acritically as being true. How often this happens, in view of what we can say is a real failure of the regulation of social communication in Portugal. And if we have always been deeply critical to the inertia of the ERC in relation to flagrant cases of violation of freedom of the press in Portugal, well, then we cannot see how it is possible to assign control not only of what it is responsible for it, which is the regulation of social communication, but of the social networks themselves. It does not seem to us that this is possible in practice or within the scope of the ERC, provided for in law and in the Constitution. But, Madam President, what we essentially disagree with in Article 6. the, is not about the issue of the imposition of censures, as was said recently. We are not going there, but what we think is that, in fact, this idea that there are official truths and the rest is misinformation is not acceptable. That is to say, we do not recognise to the institutions of the European Union the right to say what is misinformation and what is not misinformation, when we know that for those institutions everything that questions the dogmas of European construction or the convergence criteria signed in the Treaty on European Union is misinformation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u126	We all have the experience that all the referendums that the institutions of the European Union have lost against the peoples of Europe were misinformed. The United Kingdom went out of the European Union for misinformation, the people of Denmark, many years ago, rejected the single currency for misinformation and the European Constitutional Treaty, a few years ago, was abandoned for misinformation by the French and Dutch,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u127	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u128	... that rejected him in referendum. That's why there are no more referendums. People will not find out that the majority is uninformed and call into question the dogmas of European construction.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u130	Therefore, the European Union does not have that moral authority. On the other hand, as regards quality stamps, to whom will the Portuguese State be able to attribute the quality stamps?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u131	No one! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u132	Is it on a general television that last year passed a fake New York Times page to your major audience with news about the Front Party? I hope that this is not the same media agency, which also has a fact-checking program, to have the quality stamp, because, there, what they say is true. Well, I give a more early example: Mr José Magalhães gave me - recently - the formulation of a « ministry of truth». I think I have never used that wording, because I don't like it, but the honourable Member has attributed it to me. You see, Mr. Deputies? I didn't have a quality stamp! [[Mr. José Magalhães's laughs.]] I didn't have a quality stamp! So you have to be careful about these questions, because no one owns the truth. This discussion deserves to be held.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u133	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u134	I'm done now, Madam President. The search for mechanisms to combat the massification of falsehood, whether through social communication or through social networks, cannot be done by attempting to impose what are official truths because official truth, Madam President, does not exist. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to affirming the constitutional principle of freedom of expression, we intend with this intervention to address the problem of fake news and the enormous challenges posed by combating misinformation. The use of the Internet, mobile devices, social networks and messaging applications has increased the circulation of false information in a volume and quantity never before imagined. Every second, thousands of fake news proliferate in the digital world. We speak of false information, of rumors, « of the hearsay», of conspiracy theories and even of beliefs and dogmas disseminated, through numerous forms, on the Internet and which attribute veracity to any message. Daily SMS (short message service) are disseminated, videos and fake text pieces of simple seizure, often disseminated by false robots and profiles. Disinformation, in addition to being a serious threat to democracy and the rule of law, can even lead to death, as Joe Biden recently said. Never, as now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have been so exposed to this phenomenon, as the pandemic crisis has contributed to the exponential increase in the proliferation of false information about the pandemic itself. There are well-known examples of this reality the alleged benefit of leaching to treat COVID-19, the numerous false information about the alleged effects of vaccines or their negationist theses. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the distorted content on these matters is worrying and very revealing of the need for a serious and extended discussion on the path to be taken to combat misinformation. Disinformation is certainly one of the biggest pandemics of the 21st century, it is a virus for which we still have neither vaccine nor cure. It's a new reality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that raises numerous questions. How to combat misinformation? How to contain the spread of false information? How can we prepare citizens to deal with this new reality and distinguish information from real information? How can we help the immunity of social communication in the face of this phenomenon? How can we promote the independence of journalism and digital literature in view of this reality? Is the path to self-regulation or regulation of information? The answer to all these questions, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it requires an extended debate which involves civil society and includes the various operators and the sector itself. It is a debate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, which is only now at the outset and which is, therefore, far from generating the necessary and fundamental consensus in this area. In view of this complexity and the lack of involvement of civil society, what does the author party of the Charter of Digital Rights do? It insists and persists, as for us, in the mistake and presents a solution to force regulatory approval, which seems to us a rather doubtful solution, a solution that only serves to try to save face to face the numerous criticisms of public opinion and published. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the people have already said, and rightly so, that «the worst blind is the one who does not want to see». And there are still parties that remain blind, because they persist in the mistake and are completely hostage to the paternity of a Charter which, in most cases, constitutes a civilizational advance in terms of digital rights, but which has the problem of Article 6. the, which lacks much reflection. The PSD is not in accordance with this precipitated methodology, nor with the regulation proposed by the PS. This is the case to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who will be « worse the amendment than the sonnet ». So we consider, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there has to be a deeper debate in the search for a better solution to combat misinformation. As long as the Socialist Party seems to want to remain proudly only to defend a diametrically opposite to that of the European Union, we defend the urgency and urgency of a serious and widespread debate on misinformation. The path of the self-regulation proposed by the European Union is, as we have mentioned, a different path from what is proposed by the Socialist Party... [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] ...and more consistent with independence and freedom of expression. It is a path that enables citizens, in their own right, to identify the information and reject it, rather than granting the State powers, which can in fact be dangerous, to certify the truth of the contents. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS presents, as has already been said, a solution that has not been adopted by any European country, so they are « proudly alone », as we have already mentioned. In Spain, France, Germany, Sweden, just to name a few examples, there is no public entity competent to verify the truth of facts nor to award prizes to entities that award quality stamps. In 2020, in France, there was also an attempt to create a government entity to control the verification of information about COVID-19, which did not advance because censorship criticisms were unanimous. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problem of misinformation is complex, so we believe it is possible to find a more balanced solution, but to that end there will have to be more reflection, greater weighting and greater involvement of the protagonists and of all civil society. It would therefore be appropriate for us to resume this discussion in September, in the specialty, to listen to the sector, to involve the contribution of the observatories and to promote a wider debate for all. If this is not possible for the PSD, the most balanced solution is to revoke Article 6 with immediate effect. o. We will vote in favour of the revocation and thus we will no longer vote against the PS solution because it will fall to the vote without being discussed. Nevertheless, we believe that the repeal of Article 6. it does not solve the fundamental problem, but, supposing the pros and cons, we consider it preferable to move forward towards this solution of revocation rather than to advance hastily towards a solution which — as has already been mentioned here, and also, in the opinion of the Advocates' Order – is doubtful constitutionality. Finally, it is also important to mention the government's own shyness in combating misinformation. We do not know what concrete measures and policies are needed to bring about this new reality. We do not know what measures to implement the European Action Plan, to promote transparency, digital literacy, independence and the quality of journalism. This is when journalism is pointed out, by the Plan, as one of the main remedies to combat misinformation, the proliferation of false information on the Internet and to consolidate democracy and the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of what we are going to be witnesses in Portugal, it even seems that we are in contravention. We are talking about a fundamental pillar of the democratic regime, which assumes a relevant role as a guarantee of pluralism of opinion. The Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is again behind the damage and it takes time to combat this serious phenomenon of misinformation. To ensure that all opinions are based on a factual fact is a huge challenge, but it is an imperative for freedom of opinion to be a reality. We defend the emergency, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, an extended debate on this matter. We need a solution that serves the truth and that enhances the performance and noble mission of the media in the digital field. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a solution that is effective and that really protects citizens from attempts to manipulate information. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u137	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u138	Madam President, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, we see with great positivity the fact that the PSD is available for a debate. This debate did not start today or start now, it did not start in this Legislative Session, it did not start in this Parliament. In the past Parliament, there were several conferences on this matter, in which some of us had the opportunity to speak. The first version of the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age was presented, some of us were participating, in public terms, in several debates and we agree with all those who said, as we also said, that this is a difficult matter, that we must seek to deepen the debate and improve solutions. We are fully available for that. But the question is this: is the majority party of the opposition waiting for what to make any contribution to the debate rather than just being ambushed hoping to say wrong of others' proposals? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u139	In reply, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u140	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I am well aware that you have not accompanied the work in the field of this legislative process, because if you had followed them, you would have noticed that the PSD participated actively in the discussion of this Charter and also tabled amendments, which have been approved and that they have made a significant contribution to improving the Portuguese Charter on Human Rights in the Digital Age. Therefore, the PSD never runs away from the debate. [[PSD applause.]] But it is necessary, Mr Porfirio Silva, to be aware that we cannot force society to move forward on a path that society does not want or for which it is not prepared. It is this recognition that it would be good for the PS, that there is still much work to be done at this time to debate and involve the various entities so that consensus can be reached on a subject which we agree is fundamental, such as the fight against misinformation. It is not worth the Socialist Party to continue to persist in the mistake of wanting a solution to force because it will not be able to get there, Mr President. It is better to recognize that reality and solution are complex and realize that the path to achieving the solution is also complex. It is not the force, Mr President, that we will be able to solve this problem. from the PSD, we have our own agenda and we are certainly working on the search for a better solution. However, the solution will not appear today. The solution will appear after a mature reflection and after a mature involvement with all civil society,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u141	... involvement which, in fact, was requested in the written public opinion and conveyed on this matter. Indeed, I believe that there is no doubt, Mr President, that Article 6. It doesn't work, as it is. It is already in force and the best solution at this time, given that the solution proposed by the PS is doubtful constitutionality, it is from now on to vote in favour of the immediate revocation of Article 6. then start working again on a solution that meets what the Portuguese want. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u142	The Bureau does not have any more entries, so we are going to end this debate. To this end, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that this has been a very enlightening debate, perhaps too extreme here and there, but along with the vote that will follow, it will allow us to clarify each other's positions. We are starting from a common position, from a common reading. All of us in this Chamber, I believe that without exception, we recognize that there is a problem that can be called, in general, misinformation. But I repeat what I said in the opening of this debate: the main problem of misinformation is that which is led by sovereign entities, by major propaganda campaigns, which undermine democratic processes and the stability of democracies. And this subject, which deserves treatment, is certainly not to be dealt with in a letter of digital rights. It is from the individual rights in the digital world that we are dealing with and from this common concern that we have with misinformation, what does the PS do? Oh, my God! Insert four new developments into our legal order. First, it defines misinformation in a very dubious way, very questionable, but above all in a way that includes political discourse in the definition of misinformation. I have already lost the account to the number of times I have asked this to the Socialist Party, or to some people of the Socialist Party: why have they not excluded it? Oh, my God! I still have no answer. Therefore, there can be only one explanation: they really want political discourse to be contained in the notion of misinformation, because they want to control political discourse.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u144	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u145	I haven't had an answer until today to the dozens of times I've asked this. The second novelty is the following: it makes the State encourage the fact-checking. Who? Entities registered in the State, with criteria defined by the State and with the possibility of being supported by the State. Does this dependence on the State not create and open the door to censorship or self-censorship? Oh, my God! Attention that I have never said here, neither the rostrum, nor the bench, that we are before a censorial process, but I have said, and I repeat, that we are before a process that opens the door to censorship and self-censorship, fruit and daughter of this dependence that I have just mentioned. Thirdly, it stipulates that anyone who feels that he is a target or a victim of misinformation in digital space may use the ERC. ERC! I don't even say that the ERC itself doesn't want this responsibility, but, even if it wants it, it has zero resources and it has zero competences. Moreover, it makes no sense that there is an entity to be able to define what is and what is not true. It is the first step towards the famous « official truth», which should make the true Democrats feel ashamed. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] Finally, it provides for the use of popular action. It does not seem to me a bad idea, but it has only one problem: there is already the possibility of resorting to popular action in various subjects and it is largely ignored by the population itself. It is indeed a sign of such sleep, of such submission and of such moderatorship in which the Portuguese people find themselves, very fruit of the state's dependence on the Socialist Party. So what the Socialist Party brings us—I must be more just and more correct, because I am sure there will still be free spirits in the Socialist Party—is a solution that will not work and know that it will not work. A few minutes ago, at this bench, a member of the Socialist Party was saying: "This is a very difficult problem, no one can claim to know what the solution is. So, what are they doing? Oh, my God! Take the solution! [[Mr. José Magalhães's laughs.]] Does this make any sense? Oh, my God! Zero! It makes zero sense. If it's difficult and if it doesn't have a solution, don't move until you know how it's going to work out, something that goes very good people, a little around the world, trying to solve. It is that what is proposed here does not only solve the problem as it worsens, as I said in my initial speech, 100, 200 or 1000 times. Therefore, the vote we are going to make today, in addition to clarifying the positions of each of the parties, or the positions of each Member within each of the parties, is a choice that will be simple: it is among those who want to revoke Article 6. because they do not trust anyone, nor themselves, to define what is and is not true in relation to others, they do not believe in this possibility that there is an official truth defined by whoever it is, and those who agree to maintain Article 6. o. The latter are not that they do not trust an entity that defines official truth, they do not trust people to know what is or is not true. That's the big difference. I end with finding a historical irony, a little cruel, at least for some of you. It is ironic that if the proposal for revocation of Article 6. the coming to plumbar in this House through the votes of two left parties, 100 years after 1920, in the third decade of the 21st century, is the left to prevent the defense of freedom of expression. Don't stop being ironic!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u146	Wow!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u147	We have concluded this item on our agenda and will then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u148	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u149	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u150	Madam President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u151	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u152	Mr President, after the creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which had never actually been seen in this House, I now turn to the plenary of the Bureau's decision. It is very concrete and unequivocal: there was a statement by the Foreign Affairs Committee on a joint discussion of 10 draft resolutions and several votes. having existed this statement, apparently, the Bureau took sufficient information to decide that two draft resolutions on the recognition of the State of Palestine and a draft resolution on the condemnation of Israeli settlers in Palestinian territory had, after all, the same subject and would therefore be voted on in general. Now, it is enough to read the titles, with a little more work to read the contents of the draft resolutions and even with a little more work to follow the debate that took place in the committee, in which all parliamentary groups participated, to realize that this decision is wrong and goes against the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that when there are draft resolutions which have one subject which is the only one to vote at that time, they should have a comprehensive final vote. This is what happens to the Resolution Project No 1316 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). contrary to the understanding of the Bureau, which led to the production of the current script of votes, recourse to plenary, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, for the draft resolution No 1316 / XIV / 2. a (BE) is understood as having a global vote and then there is acceptance of the plenary of our claim, to request the disaggregated vote of the two points of the draft resolution, which is only possible by having a global vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. In accordance with Article 59. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, the agenda may be amended by the deliberations of the Plenary, provided there are no votes against. So that's what we're gonna do. We shall take the vote, according to the honourable Member's proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u154	This does not alter the agenda!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u155	Let us then vote on Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' proposal from the Left Block. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u156	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u157	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u158	Mr President, as a result of this decision of the Plenary - I believe that all the banks are informed to that effect, but I do not know if it will take some time - I would like to ask that there be a breakdown of the vote on the two points of this draft resolution, so that there is a differentiated vote on each of the points. I speak of the Resolution Project No 1316 / XIV / 2. a ( BE).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u159	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u160	Mr Telmo Correia, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u161	Mr President, on the same subject, I would like to speak to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u162	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u163	It is only to say the following: the President has found a solution and the problem has been solved. We voted in favour, as is clear, because we agree with the assessment, but I believe that the question raised by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares goes beyond merely changing the agenda, i.e. it is an interpretation of the powers, powers and services themselves in such matters. I support the interpretation of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. The owners of the projects must be their authors and not properly the commissions or services and I would just like to make this clear, as our perception and as our opinion, about what we have just decided.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u164	Mr President, we are not going to complicate what is already being simplified, because the problem arises from the fact that the committee responsible has dealt with all the initiatives globally and has not separated them. As this information came together to plenary, of course, the services gave you the usual treatment in these cases. But the plenary has already voted, it is therefore decided. I wonder if the parliamentary groups need some time to adjust. The Bureau needs to re-order the votes and, therefore, we will stop for 2 minutes in order to make this re-arrangement of the vote script. [[It was 17 hours and 18 minutes.]] Let's get back to work. [[It was 17 hours and 20 minutes.]] The Bureau is in a position to begin the votes. I wonder if the parliamentary groups are all in good condition and informed that there are Members accompanying the session by videoconferencing and that they will vote in this way. [[Pause.]] We begin with the Vote Project No 643 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — Regret for the victims of the floods in Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u165	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Central Europe, more specifically in Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, in recent days, is being whipped by severe floods and floods due to a low pressure system that is slowly moving over the region. Experts describe it as the largest rain recorded in 100 years. So far, there is information of 46 dead — 40 in Germany and 6 in Belgium — about 70 missing — in Germany — and of countless displaced persons after several houses have collapsed. There's an uncertain number of people on roofs needing to be rescued. There is still no real and accurate clearance of the situation, given that rescue operations remain. In the German regions bathed by rivers and tributaries, especially in the western region of Germany, navigation was suspended. In the Belgian city of Liège, the authorities fear that the river may flood much of the urban area and the population has already been alerted to protect themselves. Railway transport has been interrupted. In the Netherlands, the Armed Forces are already on the ground to improvise dams and block the passage of water. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its solidarity with the people and authorities of Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, and expresses its deepest sympathy for the victims of the floods that have occurred in recent days. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now have for the vote draft resolution No 1401 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Brazil. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No. 890 / XIV / 2 is followed. a (IL) — Protects freedom of expression online. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH, the IL and members of the PS Ascenso Simões, Jorge Lacão, Marcos Perestrello and Sérgio Sousa Pinto and the abstention of the PS Bachelor of Vasconcelos.]] We now vote on a request by the PS to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 884 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Develops the scheme of Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, providing support to private entities that carry out fact-finding and quality stamping activities. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No. 888 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Eliminates from Law No 27 / 2021 of 17 May ( Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age) the creation of the concept of misinformation and predicting State support and incentives for the allocation of quality stamps to social media bodies. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH, the IL and members of the PS Ascension Simões, the Vasconcelos Bachelor, Jorge Lacão, Marcos Perestrello and Sergio Sousa Pinto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u167	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u168	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u169	Madam President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on the votes we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u170	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u171	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u172	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u173	Madam President, it is also to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Members Sérgio Sousa Pinto, Marcos Perestrello and Bacelar de Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u175	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u176	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u177	Madam President, it is also to indicate to the Bureau that I am going to make a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u178	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on the application by the NAP to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a vote of 60 days from the Bill No 914 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Amended Act No 27 / 2021 of 17 May adopting the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In our vote script we now had the vote on draft resolution No 1316 / XIV / 2. the, presented by the Block of Left, which passed the deliberations, and this vote passes to Thursday. It will not be voted on today, it will be voted on next Thursday. We therefore proceed to the joint vote on draft resolutions Nos 1317 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government recognise the state of Palestine and 1375 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — For the recognition of the State of Palestine. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Carla Sousa, Joana Sá Pereira, Joël Bouça Gomes, Maria Begonha and Miguel Matos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u179	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u180	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u181	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf, on behalf of Mr Joël Gomes and Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha and Carla Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then proceed to the general vote on Resolution Projects Nos 480 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with the implementation of urgent works at the IC2-Oliveira de Azemés that definitely resolve the sinality of that structural route to the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés, 501 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of works in the CI2- Oliveira de Azemés and 1344 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Requalification works in the CI2, in the section serving and crossing the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés, in order to improve the quality of the route and reduce sinequality. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 1254 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By the benefit, appreciation and dignity of the Queen's Regional Museum Dona Leonor. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1329 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government allow commercial advertising to RTP-Medeira and RTP-Azores in the review of the concession contract with RTP. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u183	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u184	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u185	Madam President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u186	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u187	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u188	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u189	Madam President, that is to say that we will also present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u190	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1386 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extension until the end of the year of extraordinary support for self-employed persons and immediate replacement of their payment. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1409 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extension of extraordinary support to the unemployed by the end of 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We also voted for Resolution Project No 1153 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Massify the test to control the pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote on draft resolution No 1383 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By the urgent reopening of the health extension located in the Mina de São Domingos - parish of Corte do Pinto. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Pedro do Carmo and Telma Guerreiro and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u191	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u192	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u193	Madam President, it is to announce that I and Mr Pedro do Carmo, who are in confinement but attending the session by video conference, will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u194	The intention of delivering a declaration of vote by the two PS Members who voted in favour is recorded. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1396 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government accelerate vaccination against COVID-19. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1392 / XIV / 2. a ( Unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government ratify the Convention on Violence and Assets in the World of the Work of the International Labour Organisation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1092 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the recovery, maintenance and enhancement of the National Forest of the Valley of Canas, in Coimbra. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1260/XIV/2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government appoint municipal veterinary doctors. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1271 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government measures to regulate the catch of bivalves in the Tejo estuary and its marketing. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PS and abstentions of the NAP and the IL and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1306 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By solving the social and environmental problems of the bivalve catch in the Tejo estuary. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the NAP.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 1366 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By valuing and dignity of seafood conditions in the Tejo estuary. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions against the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities on draft resolutions Nos 1240 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — triple threat support in Mozambique and 1328 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue its efforts to sensitize and mobilize international organizations and communities for the urgent need to help Mozambique respond to the serious humanitarian crisis affecting hundreds of thousands of displaced persons in Cape Delgado province. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u195	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u196	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u197	Madam President, just to announce that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u198	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Oliveira, would you like to speak for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u199	Yes, Madam President. It is also to inform us that we will make a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u200	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power on draft resolution No 1182 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — For greater equity in the distribution of European structural funds to the Setúbal Peninsula region. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] The final overall vote of the final text is followed, presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power, on draft resolution No 1312 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — The urgent creation of NUTS II and III - Setubal Peninsula. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 88 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1024 on open data and reuse of public sector information. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, PSD and BE were adopted against the PCP, the ENP and the IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 89 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2019 / 1153 on the use of financial and other information for the prevention, detection, investigation or suppression of criminal offences. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We follow with the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 98 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 713 on combating fraud and counterfeiting of means of payment other than cash. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft Law No 625 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Promotes the prohibition of the manufacture, possession, use and sale of devices intended to capture wild birds not subject to kinetic exploitation and 651 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Determines the prohibition on the manufacture, sale, purchase, use and import of traps and other devices used for illegal catches of wild birds. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the CH were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] The votes of this replacement text in the speciality and overall final are thus detrimental. We shall proceed to the vote on the request by the PS for a vote by the plenary of the vote in the speciality of Article 5 ( 2 ( 2 ) and ( 5 ) ( 5 ). the Statute of Deputies, contained in the final text, submitted by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies, concerning Bills Nos 613 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 636 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 638 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u201	Madam President, I would ask you to wait a minute before you proceed with the vote so that you can organize my papers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u202	All right, Mr. Deputies. Please arrange. [[Pause.]] Mr. André Ventura, have you organized yourself?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u203	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u204	Mr Telmo Correia, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u205	Madam President, it is only to indicate to the Bureau the correctness of the CDS-PP vote in the last vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft Law No 625 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 651 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), abstention to vote against. It is that we would abstain - in general, but we would be against the overall final vote. Since there was no overall final vote, our vote is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u206	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. In any case, it does not alter the final outcome of the vote. We shall then vote on the request made by the PS for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 5 ( 2 ( 2 ) and ( 5 ) ( 5 ). the Statute of Deputies, contained in the final text, submitted by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies, concerning Bills Nos 613 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 636 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 638 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now move on to the supplementary script and we will vote in the specialty on the proposal by the PS to delete Article 5 ( 2 )( d ). the Statute of the Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u207	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u208	To what effect, Mr. Deputies? We are voting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u209	Mr President, the information I have — and correct - will correct me if not so — is that, having been voted in favour of an appeal, there is therefore a vote in the specialty which will take place in the plenary. And when it comes to the matter, it seems clear to me that it must have a minimum debate, so that when Members vote here in plenary, they are fully aware of what they are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u211	The information I have is that a minimum time will be distributed to each bench that wants to use it for that purpose, before we move on to the vote, as in fact it is usually done every time there is a lawyer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u212	Mr. Deputy is right, but no one asked. Therefore, if no one has asked, the Bureau cannot give what is not requested.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u213	Madam President, I don't know if anyone asked for it. But if no one asked, I'm asking now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u214	And the Bureau will respond to the request that the honourable Member has just made. Thus, each parliamentary group will have 2 minutes to intervene on this. Mr. Jorge Lacão, do you want to start? Is that it, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u215	Mr President, since the PS was the author of the initiative, it seems to me that it should be reasoned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u216	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: what we are talking about — first of all excluding what is not — is not a debate about the system of Members' exclusivity, which is certainly relevant but which is not what we are talking about here. What it is about is whether we are confirming or, on the contrary, confirming the principle of fidelity to the stability of Members' mandates. This principle of fidelity to the stability of the mandates of Members had been achieved in an extraordinarily balanced way, in our understanding. On the one hand, the system of suspensions in force admits that this occurs due to serious illness of the Member, parental leave and in necessary cases of judicial proceedings in situations of definitive accusation. On the other hand, the scheme is complemented by a solution for justified failures, which, by disease, marriage, mourning, force majeure, justified political work, supports this justification for shortcomings. It also allows the system in force for the most favourable treatment in the existing legal order for workers' students, in this case also for Members who have this condition. Having said that, the principle that should prevail in any circumstances was that of the stability of the mandate, in respect of the will of the electors, in respect of the personal responsibility of the Members before the electors, in respect of the full exercise of the mandate which the electors give us. However, a solution presented by the PSD and the CDS which will admit as a new cause for suspension of mandates the evocation of weighty reasons of a family, personal, professional or academic nature which will add to all the other aspects I have just mentioned. That is to say, with the approval of this regime, the mandate of the Member becomes a trophy in the discretionary availability of the Member himself and, therefore, if Members are to be allowed to self-regulate the conditions of his presence in Parliament, it means that we do not have due regard for the mandate which the voters have given to each one, which we do not have sufficient regard to the principle of political responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u218	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u219	I will finish, Madam President. It means that we do not take sufficient account of the stability of the parliamentary composition in the individualization of the Members who are legitimately appointed to exercise the office.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u220	Mr President, you have to conclude
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u221	It was for these reasons and a deep concern at the degree of discrimination that we will now present this appeal, with a view to eliminating the amendments that have been tabled in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u222	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In short, I mean, as has already been widely mentioned in the Commission, two or three things. First of all, Mr Jorge Lacão says that the understanding in force in the law has been achieved in a balanced way. I will recall, making some history here, that the existing legal solution was reached at a time when the Socialist Party had an absolute majority and voted on this measure alone and all the other parties voted against. This was the balance which, in your understanding, was achieved. [[PSD applause.]] Secondly, the law has a vision that is the socialist view of the role of Member, which is the functional view. In other words, a Member is in office and may suspend his or her term of office with less conditions than any other public official: he or she can do so only in case of parenthood, illness up to 6 months, because he or she can no longer do so if he or she has more than 6 months sick, and to answer in court proceedings. Then they have an argument that has a lot of grace, which is the argument of the stability of parliamentary composition. That is very kind because, recalling what has already been said, not by my words, but by Mr. João Oliveira, in the Committee on Transparency, if we then take the principle of the stability of the parliamentary constitution to the fullest, how can you do when you take a good part of your constitution to go to the government? Oh, my God! How do you do that? Does parliamentary stability no longer count? Oh, my God! How are the voters at that time? [[PSD applause.]] This is, at the bottom, a huge hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u224	This argument is not ours, it's from the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u225	In reality, the divergence of assumptions is based on the view that we have of the role of Parliamentary and that it is that 'is' Member, it is not 'is' Member. As we believe that it is 'deputed' at a certain stage of life, we believe that the Member must be able to request the temporary suspension of his mandate, with limits, because, in fact, we have now defined a minimum period of 30 days, which did not exist, precisely to correspond to the period of verification of Parliament's services, and we have reduced the maximum period to 6 months. That is to say, from here on, we replace this attempt to moralize the role of Member who the Socialist Party wants to impose by a principle of accountability for the role of Member. A Member is elected and if we believe that every Member is worth it for you...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u226	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u227	Finally, Madam President, although it is not yet in the tolerance granted to the previous speaker. I will conclude by saying the following: At the principle of this morality, we respond to accountability, and to the principle of the function of a Member, as you always say, we counter the non-functionalization of the office of a Member. The honourable Member is a free man and Parliament must give him the conditions to exercise that same freedom. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u228	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The idea behind our electoral law is very simple. It is that each Member or Member has a mandate on his own behalf but is elected with a geographical linkage, on party lists and a political programme to which he is obliged, at least in the contract he makes with the citizens and with the citizens below. That is why this idea that there is an empty one and that Members will be replaced is well known by whom it is an idea that has no relation to reality. They will be replaced by those who, on the list, follow them and who will fulfill, if they keep the contract with the electorate, the electoral programme by which they were elected. From that point of view, the guarantee of non-interference in the Member's mandate is that this decision is not taken by any party direction, by any direction of a parliamentary group, but by itself or by itself, that it will say when, how and why it wants to be replaced. Does it make sense to say no, that a Member cannot be replaced, that he will need to be replaced? Will there be a greater representation with these shortcomings? There is no and therefore the substitution is more honest in the relationship with people and it is more guaranteed in terms of the validation of the presence, in each of these chairs, of those who represent the rights of the people. That is why we will reject the Socialist Party's proposal and follow what is on the table to be voted in a comprehensive final vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u230	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The advantage of this proposal from the Socialist Party is that it enables us, in plenary, to repeat the discussion we have already held in the Commission, even if it is more content in terms of time constraints. I would like to say that on the part of the CFP we are satisfied with the amendments which have been approved by the Commission. They seem to correspond to an adequacy of the Statute of Members and the regime of replacement of the Statute of Members to objective needs that have occurred over the years after the erroneous amendments introduced by the Socialist Party during the legislation that ended in 2009, as has already been said, exclusively with the Socialist Party's favourable vote and with the votes against all the other seats. These amendments have in fact introduced very significant limitations to the replacement of Members, leading, inter alia, to the cluster of a Member who needs to assist a family member who has a serious illness, for a given period of time, cannot do so because he is prevented from replacing the mandate and is therefore condemned to send stability of the mandate 'to the Urticians' and, of two, one : or waiver of the mandate or no longer providing assistance to the family. Therefore, it seems to us that the amendments that have now been introduced, proposed by the PSD, the CDS and the PAN, are appropriate. In fact, there were even others for which we would agree that they could also have been welcomed, and it was not because of the lack of vote by the CFP that they were not, in particular, the possibility of suspension because there are Members who are candidates for other elections. It seemed to us that this proposal was also appropriate, but it was not approved and it is not worth spending more time with it. I would still like to say something about the arguments that Mr. Jorge Lacão has repeated here with regard to the Socialist Party, and I will adjust what he said earlier in the Commission's discussion. It is that this thing of the stability of the Member's mandate, which Mr Jorge Lacão here refers to, is a matter for which there are also children and children. It is that there are Members for whom, if they are for the Government, there is no longer any concern about the stability of the mandate and there is no concern that the voters have chosen these Members. In order to go to the government, there is no longer a problem in the eyes of the Socialist Party for the stability of the mandate, but if for any other reason there can no longer be a replacement. And, Mr. Jorge Lacão, it is not worth claiming with the Constitution, because he will not shoot with the Constitution at the face of any Member who needs to suspend the mandate to assist a family member who is in a condition of illness. Mr. Jorge Lacão will certainly not shoot you with the Constitution to say that he has no legitimacy to argue this argument to make the substitution. Moreover, I conclude, Madam President, by saying this: we were curious about this discussion in the Transparency Committee on the day that there was a PS Member who had to give up the mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u232	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u233	I conclude, Madam President. This after having spent a whole year resorting to the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, to request opinions, to request opinions, to request an assessment of their situation because, on professional matters, it was prejudiced by the fact that it was unable to suspend the mandate in accordance with that circumstance. The tabular answer which the Commission gave you, with the Staff Regulations of Members which the PS approved by itself in 2006 was to tell the honourable Member "will stabilize himself elsewhere, because its stability is here, it cannot leave here in any way, nor can it be to avoid harming its professional course. This was not appropriate, Mr. Jorge Lacão. Finally, with the amendments we are going to adopt today, this problem is solved and these solutions become admissible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u234	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will not repeat the expert's arguments because I did not participate in this discussion, and that is why. However, knowing what is at stake, what I would say here today is "not so much to the sea, not so much to the earth". When this question was discussed, and this question was repeatedly discussed in the past, there was a little idea that there was an abuse of the figure of suspension, so to speak. In other words, there was the idea that there were parties that, for reasons of internal organization or others, used a scheme of almost rotating mandates, not allowing this stability. It is an acceptable criticism, it is a reasonable criticism and what I would say, taking into account what Mr. Jorge Lacão has said, is that, in principle, the CDS is in favour of the stability of mandates, of course! The idea of the stability of mandates is a good idea and I do not even think it is a matter, as it has been seen, of course, in this debate, strictly ideologically, so to speak. It is a model issue of the operation of the Assembly. Now, we need to find reasonableness and indeed the examples that have been brought here show that there are cases where this is not reasonable: this is the case which has now been described, that is the case mentioned earlier by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, and the CDS also had such a case in the past of a Member who wanted to suspend the mandate for a very serious reason of his next family and could not do so. I could only do it by calling it low and he didn't want to get down, I just wanted to assist his wife who was facing a very complicated and very difficult moment and couldn't do it. We know these situations in the past and, therefore, what is said here today and what is proposed is the stability of the mandates, yes, but for serious, serious reasons of itself, as has been said and well, and not for any external instruction to itself, the honourable Member can request the suspension of the mandate. It's a reasonable solution. In our view, it does not clash with the stability of mandates and allows a normal exercise of this suspension. The opposite is also unthinkable: we can reach the conclusion, by defending very much the stability of mandates, that if a Member is faced with one of these situations in a serious and serious way, and cannot ask for suspension, not having this possibility, on the limit, is obliged to give up. And by renouncing, there has been the stability of the mandate, so to speak, because then the amendment will be mandatory. It is therefore a reasonable solution to compromise. We will vote against the Socialist Party's proposals and we will vote in favour of the text which comes from the Commission and which is agreed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u236	Mr Nelson Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some of the arguments used in the field of specialty have already been mentioned here and much has already been said. Obviously, the NAP considers that the possibility of suspension of the term of office of Member or Member of the Assembly of the Republic must be enshrined, in accordance with these proposals and also in accordance with the Commission's own final text, which so enshrines. We can't self-flash. We obviously have responsibilities and responsibilities as representatives of citizens and citizens in the Assembly of the Republic, and we should have more and more extensive responsibilities than those of other mandates, for example than those of the local authorities, who also have their responsibility, however, we cannot be private, Members and Members, of being candidates for any election, having rights already applied to all other candidates and candidates. That is why, of course, the NAP will vote against the Socialist Party's appeal and we will, of course, vote in favour of the final text presented by the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u238	Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's attempt to bring this debate to the Assembly of the Republic before the city hall is just one thing: it is pathetic! Pathetic! After the discussion in the Commission, they tried to revert here what they already saw no one will do is simply pathetic and a lesson of humility that they should learn. Mr Jorge Lacão, his name was not on the list in the last legislative elections. If the honourable Member does not know, and since he wants to talk about the Constitution and the law, when I went to vote it was not there written « Jorge Lacão », it was written « Socialist Party », on a list that not only had Mr. If it is not the Member, it will be another, if it is not the other or the next. It is called Portuguese parliamentary democracy and has lists, it has no names. It was not written « André Ventura », nor « John Cotrim de Figueiredo », nor any other names of the present, therefore, leave behind bullshit...! You want to proletarianize the Members. Since they have a giant majority, which I hope will end very soon, they want to make all Members stay proletarian in this House, and that's not how it works. I think very much thanks to the argument about the stability of the mandate not serving when 10 members of that bench go to the government — then nobody cares! — or when a member of that bench leaves the seat of the Member State to take over a principal salary in the Mobility and Transport Authority — he would also like to see where that stability of the mandate lies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u240	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u241	I will finish, Madam President. Maybe we could all shake hands and celebrate the stability of the mandate instead of screwing up the other party groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u242	Mr Filipe Pacheco, however, asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u243	Madam President, it is to request the registration of the amendment to my vote on draft resolutions Nos 1317 / XIV / 2. a, of BE, and 1375 / XIV / 2. a, of the ENP, against in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u244	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then turn to the special vote on the PS proposal for the elimination of Article 5 ( 2 ( d ). the Statute of Deputies, contained in the final text, submitted by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies, concerning Bills Nos 613 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 636 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 638 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS.]] We are now voting in the specialty on the proposal by the PS to eliminate Article 5 ( 5 ). the Statute of Members contained in the same final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS.]] Mrs. Members, we will proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on Bills Nos 613 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March; 636 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the possibility of a temporary replacement of Members in the event of an election of President of the Republic, of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira or of an organ holder of the local authorities ( Tenth Amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ) ; and 638 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Statute of Deputies concerning the suspension of the mandate ( Tenth fourth amendment to the Statute of Deputies, approved by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] With no objection, we are generally voting on the text of the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on Bill No 169 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the declaration of affiliation or linkage to « discreet » organisations or associations in the form of declaration obligations ( Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u245	Madam President, it is only to ask why, after voting on the draft vote presented by the PSD, the full victims in Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands were not kept for one minute by silence. There may have been some reason I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u246	You're right, sir. We shall proceed to a minute's silence at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u247	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u248	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u249	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a declaration of vote on the last vote on behalf of the individual.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u250	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Lara Martinho also asked for the floor. It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u251	Madam President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u252	Very well, Madam Member, it will be done at the end of the vote. With no further requests for speech to indicate the submission of explanations of vote, we will continue with the votes. Mrs. Members, the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, paragraphs 42 to 45, concerning the plenary meetings of 2. the Legislative Session of the XIV Legislation held on 28 and 29 January and 3 and 11 February 2021. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha is going to read her opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Lisbon North-Departement of Investigation and Criminal Action-6. the Loures Section ( Investigation 1398 / 20.0T9LRS ), the Commission gave its opinion to authorize Mr Ricardo Leon of the Socialist Party to present a statement as a witness within the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u254	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u255	The request by the Administrative and Prosecutor's Court of Mirandela-Unidad Orgânica ( Case 2 / 16.5BEMDL ), the Commission gave its opinion to authorize Mr José Silvano, of the Social Democratic Party, to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u256	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I'll inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members who, during the vote, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, who is in prophylactic isolation, made the Bureau feel that they do not change the outcome of any vote and will obviously be recorded in their vote. As usual, although with some delay, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will report some file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that the PAN Parliamentary Group has withdrawn draft resolution No 347 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — By implementing measures to support Portuguese citizens abroad, arising from the COVID-19. I also inform the House that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Law No 105 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — By increasing the funding of the University of Madeira and the University of Azores — Sixth amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 laying down the foundations for higher education financing, which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission. The Drafts of Law No. 909 / XIV / 2 were also entered in the Table. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 910 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission ; 911 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission ; 912 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission ; 913 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission ; and 914 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 51 / XIV / 2 was also included in the Bureau. a ( PSD ). Finally, I refer to the entry into the Bureau of Resolution Projects Nos 1404 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1405 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 1406 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1407 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 1408 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission ; 1409 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 1410 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; 1411 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; 1412 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 1413 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 1414 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1415 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1416 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 1417 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 1418 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1419 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 2. the Commission ; 1420 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 9. the Commission ; 1421 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 1422 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 1423 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission ; 1424 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and 1426 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), which has to do with the assessment of the application of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u258	To give an oral vote on the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies on Bill No 169 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the declaration of affiliation or connection to « discreet » organisations or associations in the form of declaration obligations ( Second Amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July), Mr José Magalhães of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after a multitude of hearings and many hours of discussion in the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, came to be approved an articulation that will not remain in history, except as an unfortunate example in parliamentary history of how there can be a legislative failure that results from the very active collaboration of people with completely different convictions. The CFP presented proposals, the PSD rode on the proposals of the NAP triggering the legislative process, the Socialist Party actively participated in the debates, but, in fact, if we had participated in the debates with wax in the ears, the result would not go far from what has now been achieved. It's not worth anything! There would be representatives of the most diverse entities, including the Committee on Religious Freedom, which, in my opinion, made one of the best opinions presented to the Assembly of the Republic to explain to us that, from a constitutional point of view, it did not make sense to impose obligations of declaration of association. Moreover, those who are curious about the Portuguese association world will know that the solution to which they arrived applies to a universe of thousands and thousands of associations. There are only about 7000 culture communities, we have about 18,000 clubs and there are about 3 000 000 Portuguese and Portuguese associates. Then, if we start classifying them, they are distinguished by various sectors and are grouped into 7, 8, 9, 10 categories of the EAC ( Classification of Economic Activities ), in addition to those that do not belong to the EAC because they are culturally or otherwise. The project carried out a reversal, which is reflected in the title: « Determines the declaration of affiliation or connection to ‘discreet’ organisations or associations within the framework of reporting obligations ». For a more objective title, it introduces changes in reporting obligations, as regards the membership or performance of functions in entities of an associative nature, in any entity, in any way in the last three years, in any sector, in any way, mixing everything and something else. Obviously, you don't hide the diamond in the middle of a package of Amparo flour, because you notice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u260	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u261	Therefore, the sugar in this matter has become evident. This means that the law suffers from the same inconveniences that marked it when it appeared under the pure garments of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u262	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u263	I shall conclude, Madam President. Even in the part where its way of implementing is determined, the law is clearly wrong, because it does not apply — it tells the Members in office, but in fact, when they have to re-update the declarations, it applies, and it does apply itself. That'll give you quite serious conflicts. That's too bad! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u264	Mrs. Members, following the draft vote we voted recently, with regret for the victims of the floods in Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha now has the floor to inform the House of the Ladies and gentlemen. Members who attended the session by digital means.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u265	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that you were present by video conference. Members João Azevedo Castro, of the PS, by the electoral circle of the Azores ; Olavo Câmara, of the PS, by the electoral circle of Madeira ; Sérgio Marques, of the PSD, by the electoral circle of Madeira ; and José Cesario, of the PSD, by the electoral circle of outside Europe. The following Members were also present by video conference. Members: Emilia Cerqueira, PSD ; Diana Ferreira, do PCP ; Ricardo Vicente, do BE ; Ana Passos, do PS ; Nuno Carvalho, do PS ; Nelson Peralta, do BE ; José Moura Soeiro, do BE ; Nuno Sá, do PS ; Paulo Leitão, do PS ; Francisco Rocha, do PS ; João Gomes Marques, do PS ; Pedro Delgado Alves, do PS ; Isabel Oneto, do PS ; André Pinotes Batista, do PS ; Hugo Carneiro, do PS ; António Lima Costa, do PS ; Pedro do Carmo, do PS ; Susana Correia ; João Gouvea, do PS ; Alma Rivera, do PCP ; the deputy Joacine Katar Moreira ; João Dias, do PCP ; and Alexandra Tavares de Moura de Moura, do PS. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u266	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u267	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u268	Mr. José Magalhães, what is your problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u269	Madam President, I have no problem! And when the President closes the session, I will have fewer problems. [[Laughing.]] I just wanted to make an inquiry to the Bureau. I would like to know what happened to Bill No 98 / XIV / 2. the, whose vote was scheduled for next Thursday and which was scheduled for today, I judge. I did not participate in the vote and therefore I cannot make a statement of vote, which is a great pity, because I would like to have voted against Article 17. o. Is that so?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u270	Mr. Deputies, this is over. We have reached the end of the vote at the end of the sitting and I will announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting. Therefore, Mr President, all this is extemporaneous.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u271	Madam President, is it therefore registered?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-20.u272	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. It is only to be announced that tomorrow's plenary meeting begins at 3 p.m., with the debate on the State of the Nation as the only item on the agenda. We are at the end of our session. Good night, everyone. [[It was 18 hours and 24 minutes.]]
