ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Before we begin the first item on the agenda, Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do the favor of giving account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I begin by informing the House that the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members has issued an opinion that the waiver of the term of office of the Member of the CDS-PP João Gonçalves Pereira, of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, elected by the electoral circle of Lisbon, meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Antonio Pedro de Carvalho Morais Soares, with effect from 5 April 2021, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Madam Secretary, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now announcing that you have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill Nos 771 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 772 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 773 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 774 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 775 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 776 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 777 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 778 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 779 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 780 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, and 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, the Proposal for a Law No 82 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 8. I also refer to the presentation of Resolution Projects Nos 1164 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1166 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission, 1167 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1168 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 1169 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1170 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1171 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1172 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1173 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 1174 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 1175 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1176 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1177 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1178 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1179 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1180 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1181 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1182 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1183 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1184 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1185 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 1187 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR). It also entered the Bureau, and was admitted, the Draft of Deliberation No. 12 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u5	Thank you, Secretary Sofia Araújo. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have conditions for not only getting on the agenda, but also for voting, as there are already 149 Members. Ladies and gentlemen. of the first item on the agenda, to which no discussion time has been allocated, there is motion for a resolution No 20 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the amendment to be added to Article 8. the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted in The Hague, on 6 December 2019. We then move on to the general debate of the Bill No 74 / XIV / 2. a — Authorizes the Government to lay down rules for the implementation of Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 2394 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the application of consumer protection legislation. To open the debate, you have the floor by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Defense, João Torres, who warmly greets.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today submits to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for a relevant law in the field of public consumer protection policy. In fact, the construction of public consumer protection policy is increasingly taking place in the context of deepening the single European market. And it is important to value and emphasize the increasing role that the European Union ( EU) plays in consumer protection. There are a number of diplomas which, in our national legal system, translate regulations and directives that have been approved over the last decades and which protect consumers, in particular with regard to unfair commercial practices, electronic commerce or even the purchase and sale of goods. Just within this very wide range of legislation, what we have been trying to do is to raise consumer protection in the discussions that are being held at the level of the European institutions. I have done so at the level of a European legislative package, which has been approved over the last few years and which has been designated « New Deal for Consumers ». And I am afraid that we have also done so under the New Consumer Agenda, which was launched by the European Commission at the end of last year and on which, within the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we have reached conclusions that support a common understanding of the priority of consumer protection in all Member States of the European Union as a crucial element for economic recovery. The regulation on the basis of the proposed law we present today addresses the new challenges of the application of consumer protection legislation within the framework of the so-called 'cooperation network', the CPC (Consumer Defense Cooperation Network) network, from the outset in general, increasing the range of powers of the various national competent authorities, establishing cooperation and coordination between the different national competent authorities in the face of each legislative diploma and defining the link between the national competent authorities of different countries. This proposal is therefore intended to ensure the application in the national legal system of an administrative cooperation regulation by conferring a minimum number of powers on the competent authorities of the different Member States — in this case the Member State of Portugal — and by establishing mutual assistance mechanisms and, for example, coordinated research. In particular, I should like to point out that this proposal identifies the European Consumer Centre and non-governmental organisations which will be able to issue consumer protection alerts, designates each of the national competent authorities for the purposes of implementing consumer law, which is somehow protected by European law, strengthens the powers of each of these competent national authorities to deal with infringements of the legislation adopted by virtue of the application of the regulations and transposition of the directives, appoints the Consumer Directorate-General as the Single Liaison Service, which is a single body that each Member State will have to articulate and better coordinate the cooperation of the CPC network — and, in the Portuguese case, suggests and proposes that it is the Consumer Directorate-General to have this very important role. We also envisage the possibility of concluding commitments either on the initiative of professionals or companies, or through agreements proposed by the competent national authorities and, for example, to cease an infringement and where compensation measures for consumers can be proposed or accepted. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public consumer protection policy is dynamic, it is not crystallizable, because it evolves with the evolution of the economy itself. It is a public policy that has a dimension of justice and a social dimension, but it is a fundamentally economic public policy. Therefore, we have sought to align the public consumer protection policy with those that are the great challenges that we are facing collectively as a society today, in particular in the pillar of digital transition and in the pillar of green transition. This proposal for a law which we now submit to the Assembly of the Republic is therefore an important diploma in order to better articulate and coordinate, within our country and in our relationship with the other Member States, the way in which we must fight for consumer protection. And we understand that in an increasingly global and more open world, this effort for cooperation and coordination at European level is very important in the context, as I said, of the single market, but also in the relationship between the European Union and third States. It is therefore also very encouraging to see that many of the proposals we have defended are being dynamized by the European Commission, particularly in the context of the New Consumer Agenda. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that the initiative we are presenting today is therefore relevant and, of course, I am here to answer all the questions that you want to see clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u7	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Protection: As easily as possible, the request for legislative authorization which the Government submits to Parliament does not go entirely new, nor does it require administrative practices which do not already present a certain institutionalization among us. We therefore find it strange that only now does the Government feel the need to lay down rules to ensure the enforceability of the Community regulation which is at the heart of our discussion, since it is one year away from the start of the production of its practical effects. We know, Mr Secretary of State, that any Community regulation has immediate effect and therefore it does not need to be transposed into national law. But if the Government has felt the need to lay down rules to ensure its full effectiveness, it is because these rules are needed. The fact is that the government had two years to reflect on these standards. And the truth is that the government has even set up a working group for this purpose. But only now, more than a year later, did the government materialize the response to that need. However, Mr Secretary of State, all of this is legitimate that we have the greatest reservations about the Government's ability to move towards essential internal consumer law, which is an example of the directive on digital content and services, the directive on the sale of consumer goods, the deadline of which ends on 1 July, as the directive on the modernisation of Union consumer protection rules, which expires at the end of this year on 28 November. Mr Secretary of State, we have no doubt that consumer policy in the European Union will only avenge if there is international cooperation. the importance of, of course, cooperation between the national authorities responsible for the application of consumer protection legislation. in this context, the application for legislative authorisation does not raise any objection. But we must not fail to point out that the same, despite being accompanied by the authorized decree, has been unaccompanied by any study or opinion. And that circumstance, for us, is not indifferent and is even very relevant. I would also like to tell you, Mr Secretary of State — and I am sure you will agree with us — that it is not enough to create a good regulatory framework if, after that, each of these entities involved in the CPC Network, i.e. in this process of administrative cooperation, it does not have ideal conditions to fully carry out the task assigned to them. The truth is, Mr Secretary of State, that many of these entities do not have these conditions and do not have them for various reasons. They do not have these conditions because the Government does not carry out the filling of vacancies in their administrations and management bodies, they do not have these conditions because the government's policy of captures, including own revenue, prevents those entities from acquiring the appropriate technical and computer resources to meet the needs of their work, prevents them from acquiring necessary materials for their laboratories, prevents the hiring of new employees, prevents the programme of inspection actions from being fully implemented, etc. etc. etc. Mr. Secretary of State, even we have faced situations that, I say, are distressing. Let me give you an example: ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), which raises counter-ordinating cars to economic operators for the degradation of the facilities it controls, is the same ASAE that does not have in its own services the necessary and appropriate conditions for the performance of its mission, as can be seen, for example, at the facilities of Mirandela, Coimbra, Santarém or Évora, where it reaches rain within the working cabinets. These are indeed distressing situations. However, these situations, Mr Secretary of State, cannot continue to exist, under the penalty of the State failing in its role as regulator, fail in its role as controller and fail in its role of protection of consumer rights, jeopardizing the confidence of citizens, jeopardizing the confidence of economic agents and, to the limit, putting into question, the good functioning of the economy as a whole. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u9	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This request for authorisation, brought to debate by the Government, which aims to regulate European legislation on consumer rights, is somewhat short in what could be a more ambitious proposal, which would meet the challenges of our times. It is true that the diploma is in some way limited to complying with European legislation, but we must not forget that, in view of the scale of challenges that are even referred to in the preambular part, such as cyber-related concerns — for example, in the digital dimension of reality, today, not only in relation to telework, but also in the area of consumer protection — on the other hand, the framework of entities that can effectively contribute to more effective monitoring in these areas is out of the question. It is only the Public Prosecutor's Office or, in this case, the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD) seems to us to be very much at fault with what is necessary to strengthen not only the competences of the different entities but above all to train them. We have already heard Mr PSD speak at ASAE, which we cannot help but follow. And we cannot fail to be surprised that ASAE is outside a diploma in which consumer rights are actually mentioned and in which nothing is mentioned in relation to that Authority, in particular since its supervisory powers are widely known, including in the field of the digital component. But today I could not help but recall that the NAP, in terms of consumer protection and protection, has also brought the debate in the Assembly of the Republic, a dimension which is repeatedly forgotten: the environmental dimension. In addition, we presented at last legislative session a bill which was rejected with the votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL, which intended to go further and establish the obligation to inform the consumer of environmental costs, for example associated with the production of foodstuffs. It seems absolutely unacceptable to us that both Parliament and the Government continue to ignore and turn their faces to the fact that 85 % of consumers today have a concern about this subject and that they do not accept this sensitivity. It therefore seems to us that it is important to go further in this direction in legislative matters. For the NAP, the right to information is an absolutely fundamental right of consumers — enshrined in European and national Union law — especially when it comes to rights relating to food or the right to health, in which the right to information is even more relevant. In addition to the food sector and its environmental impact, particularly in the area of greenhouse gas emissions, the absence of this information seems to us to be indeed a failure of the rights of consumers and their own awareness of their choices. This is just one example of what the NAP's proposals have been for consumer protection. We leave here the challenge to the Government, in this regard, not to limit itself strictly to the dimension of European Union law and to dare to go further in the defence of consumer rights and to follow the concerns, the challenges of the present, whether in terms of environmental protection, animal protection or also in terms of the extent of the right of information to the consumer, which is absolutely relevant, taking into account the context that the digital dimension has today as a result of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u11	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: We are talking about a 2017 regulation, a regulation whose effects today the government is extending, or regular, but which has been in fact since December 2017, already on the sites of all national operators. This is an incomprehensible legislative delay on the part of the Government. But I would like to confront it with the following: we had the European Consumer Summit in 2021, where Minister Siza Vieira said that the consumer would become the focus of the political priorities of this government. Now, we have arrived here and, in fact, we have noticed precisely the opposite: Portugal is still a long way back on consumer rights. I give an example: with the pandemic, 72 % of consumers began to consume online. What does the government bring to us about legislation on digital, electronic commerce? A hand full of nothing. And that's incomprehensible! Look at what is being done in Spain, Germany, Ireland, and you will see the progress they have in digital transition and electronic commerce and compare with what brings here today to this Assembly of the Republic! Honestly, it seems a joke what brings us here today! But now, from a technical point of view, this regulation, as well as this legislation, speaks of the minimum powers of the research authorities. What are those minimum powers? It's just that you never clear this House. What minimum powers must be given to the authorities in accordance with Community legislation? Worse, the regulation says that infringements that have already occurred and have already ceased can be investigated, clearly calling into question the retroactivity and its principle in Portugal. I don't know if you can answer this technically or not, but at least the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u13	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u14	I will finish, Mr. President. At least the Government should ask for an opinion to explain how there is a Community regulation to say that infringements that have already occurred must be investigated, in clear contrast with the principle of non retroactivity!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u15	Mr Fabíola Cardoso, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u16	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating all those who allow the good work of this parliamentary session to be done. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating a proposal allowing the Government to amend rules on cooperation between national consumer protection authorities. The proposal now being presented aims in practice to implement a regulation that has already been in force since 2017. The application of this measure — the proposal now put forward — aims to respond to consumer protection challenges and improve the conditions under which the competent authorities for the protection of the rights and interests of consumers cooperate with each other and with the European Commission, i.e. to enforce European legislation by strengthening the protection of consumer rights, especially in the case of cross-border infringements, which in practice should already be, or is effectively in force since 2017. In order to comply with this Regulation, the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs is identified as the competent authority for the purposes of implementing legislation and as a single liaison service, to which the national authorities are responsible, and to make contact with the European Commission. The regulatory framework proposed by this initiative therefore requires a strengthening of the intervention and work of the Directorate-General for Consumers, but the organic structure, the workers' framework of this body also suffers from the damage caused by the troika and right-wing governance, so that the strengthening of its intervention should be accompanied by the strengthening of the service itself, in particular its staff map and its operational capacity, in particular at national level, with a response with territorialised intervention capacity. It defends the Left Block that only this strengthening of means will enable its capacity to act to correspond to the desired strengthening of competences. in the same way, this bill provides for the strengthening of the duty of cooperation of the national competent authorities to develop mechanisms for mutual assistance and coordinated research and implementation. These new requirements must also be accompanied by training processes, human, material, technical and computer resources, necessary for the entities forming the new CPC network to be able to operate effectively. The entities involved are in very large numbers, ranging from entities to telecommunications, through ASAE, to the National Data Protection Commission itself or the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is not a simple network and it will only become effective if it is equipped with the means so that this can happen. We also point out that, in order to comply with the regulation, this decree states that non-governmental organisations in the area of consumer rights may issue external warnings in the event of a reasonable suspicion of an infringement which is covered by the regulation. This enlargement to civil society, particularly to non-governmental organisations, which in our country have been so important for the promotion of consumer rights, should be strengthened and also supported, with an improvement of the resources available and the facilitation of the action of these associations, so that there is indeed an improvement in their capacity to intervene. In conclusion, we note positively the possibility of concluding commitments, either on the initiative of the professional or by agreements proposed by the competent national authorities, but it will be necessary to ensure the material conditions for these commitments to be a real added value and not a new source of bureaucracy and lack of recognition of consumer rights. In short, the proposal generally deserves our agreement, although its effectiveness calls for a link between this and the aspects we have been referring to. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u17	Mr Hugo Carvalho spoke for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating here today a transposition into the national legal system of a matter relating to consumer rights. There are two issues that I would like to address in this debate, one first, more technical, and one second, more political. I would begin precisely for the second time with politics, because that is what has been discussed in this debate so far. What it is important to be aware of when we are having a debate on consumer protection is that we are not talking about a static debate, we are talking about a global issue, because it is analysed in the whole of the markets we interact with. Therefore, the first question that we must safeguard when we bring into our legal system European issues and regulations is that we must be aware that we operate in the single market, which is not only a free movement market for people, but also of goods, services and capital. As such, this issue of consumer protection is urgent and has a central importance in what is transposing to the national legal system, so that we can have a more articulated and structured European action. But if this debate is turned into a political debate, we can always use some easy issues to debate, such as speaking in captivity, lack of human resources, lack of means. I am taking this time to also ask the Government of the Socialist Party a direct question: is there an increase in the number of technicians in the ASAE? That was questioned here. This is an answer that we all have to hear in this House and, after hearing it, the PSD has to be able to incorporate it and respect it in its interventions in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to say that there is inertia in this issue is not fair neither for the Government nor for this House of the Republic, because in an exceptional period of COVID-19, which we are going through, at a time when we had to make decisions because there was an event that changed the patterns of relationship between the consumer and economic agents, at a time when we had this political fact, this House and also the government acted and took steps to make it possible to have a fairer relationship between what consumers and economic operators are. We know that it was through political action that maximum profit margins were established and regulated in essential products to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. I'm talking about masks and ice-alcohols, for example. Therefore, it is also not fair to say that nothing is done in this matter. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate here is not about what I just said, but if you want to have a political debate, we cannot forget all these aspects. What we are discussing today is a regulation of the European Union, which, through the proposed law herein, lays down the rules for its implementation and which aims to make the relationship between the Member States on consumer protection more flexible, faster and more coherent. Consumer protection is an economic policy that favours everyone, because it is based on trust. This trust is built with the certainty that in Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, in any country of the European Union there are national bodies that work together to protect and monitor economic relations. This is the certainty and conviction that the PS Parliamentary Group has in this debate and this diploma. We are making the right way to continue to strengthen the relationship between consumers and economic agents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u19	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : listening to the speeches of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, and not wanting to devalue the debate, I have come to remember that poem by José Carlos Ary dos Santos, which begins, more or less, by saying: « It is necessary to say of the things / the only things that they are/ If it is a cup/ if it is a dog is a dog(...) » And it is almost worth adding « if it is the design of the state, if it is regulation ». [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] in this case, we are talking about a proposal for a legislative authorization law, and for a very simple reason, which I think the Secretary of State did not mention in his initial speech, which is the following: we are only discussing this because the Government needs even the consent of the Assembly to legislate with regard to independent administrative authorities, regulatory entities, which are sent to the diploma under review, to authorize by the Assembly. That's why we're here having this conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u21	Yeah, that's all!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u22	We are not actually having a thematic debate on consumer rights, nor are we going to develop here, because we did not have time, the problems that we have been putting repeatedly on the horrendous shortcomings in state structures and services, such as the ASAE. We still remember, even in the time of PSD/CDS governance, the scandal in which the ASAE laboratory was or the problems, that we have spoken more recently, that this government is also responsible for the lack of cars, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u23	Yeah, ASAE's a scandal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u24	We're not going to develop that theme. Nor will we develop more recent issues, which we have put to the government, on the decree-law of the authenticity of short-terms, for example, which also has to do with these certification matters. What is at stake is, in fact, this system, provided for in the Community regulation. This regulation has defined links, let us say, from the European Union services to the national authorities and, in fact, by reading the diploma we almost have the idea of those services of the telephone stations, which say « for public transport, premium 1 ; for pension funds, premium 2 ; for communications, premium 3 ». So here is a list of entities that are responsible at the national level. Authorities exist, competences and responsibilities exist. In essence, it is the question of linking this central unit to that single liaison service in the European context. But there is a underlying problem here — yes, there is a political problem underlying this debate and this decision — which is, in fact, referred to by several interventions, about the increasing weight that the European Union and the single market have been taking on in this area, I would say not so much or specifically with regard to the protection of consumer rights, but mainly with regard to the determination of economic, regulatory, commercial policies, with all that this implies for consumers and their rights and interests. When we find that there is a speech on the cooperation of the competent authorities at national level, does there seem to be any doubt: are we in favour of cooperation between the national authorities in order to effectively intervene in the defence of consumer rights? We are, of course. What we reject frontally is the policies of centralization, at a supranational level, of powers and powers which are gradually being transferred and withdrawn to countries for European systems, not with this diploma, but gradually and gradually over the years. See what is already happening and what has been happening at the level of banking supervision, for example, where in our country the Banco de Portugal, with due respect, works essentially as a branch of the European Central Bank, transmitting guidelines from Frankfurt. So what we put here is essentially about a political disagreement with the options underlying this type of matter, when, from an operational point of view, what is new, essentially, is the ability of professionals to make commitments to the authorities on the consequences of the infringements and, as well, the capacity of external alerts. These are the only two questions, which could even be dealt with by decree-law, I assume. But there is a much more practical, concrete issue and, rather, we should have some delay in assuming this verification by the competent national authorities and authorities in the light of the application of that regulation. The face value of the proposal is this, « of the only things they are ». What is underlying to the political options, as someone said, is that they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u25	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: Mr Bruno Dias is right when he questions what is really at stake here. But we must also question what is actually at issue from a formal point of view. We are not here discussing, as much of the debate seems, a transposition into the national legal order of a European instrument. There has been talk here of 'transport, transport', but we are not transposing anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u28	What exists is a regulation that takes effect directly in the national legal order, as of course any other regulation, since 2017. We are therefore, almost four years later, discussing adaptations to national legislation arising from a regulation that already takes effect directly in our legal order. So what we have to ask is the following: have these adjustments that the government now presents had any effect on what happened between 2017, when the regulation was adopted at European level, and 2021, when these amendments are made? I would say very little, because, if we saw, there was even matter to consider, because, in the middle, we had a pandemic, which forced, I would say, substantial changes in everyone's consumption habits. Even with an amendment, which from the point of view of consumer rights, is very relevant: many transactions, which were present transactions, have become transactions not only intermediate, but also at a distance. This has substantially transformed consumer relations. And we ask: will legislation that adapts the 2017 regulation and has the experience of these last two years concentrate essentially on what these amendments are? Only not! That's not what happens here. The decree annexed to the bill is essentially bureaucratic, which, in fact, only comes here for the bureaucratic reason, which is to be dealt with by independent administrative authorities. When we expected it to be at stake here, essentially, about the effective rights of consumers, about the confidence that we need to generate in the market, about the confidence that we need to renew in the market when the market changes, that is not what happens. Therefore, what we understand is that, not objecting to what is brought to us today, we believe that it is necessary to go substantially further, that these changes in market relations, for the generality of consumers, require this renewal of confidence between the different actors. And for this to be achieved we must look at comparative experiences and realize that there are countries that, in this kind of trade relations, are far ahead of us in the defence of consumers. That is the way we should also follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u29	To close the debate, the Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Protection has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank the various interventions and, due to the lack of time, try to synthesize some clarifications in the Government's perspective. Firstly, with regard to the adoption of the Regulation and the adoption of the implementing act, this is a matter which is, of course, answered by the difference between a regulation and a directive. A regulation has, in fact, a direct and immediate application, and what we are doing is the implementing act of that regulation, without prejudice of course, to the fact that the Consumer Directorate-General has served as a single bridge and liaison service throughout this interregnum. Different matter is to accuse ourselves of being talking about transpositions of directives. We are indeed, because if we read well the annex to the bill, there is a very clear set of legislation between regulations and their implementing acts and transpositions of directives into the national legal system, which have competent authorities assigned to each of these matters, protected by European law. And it is true that this is a matter of networking and networking at national level and at the level of cooperation between the Member States of the European Union, but it also covers diplomas which have already been transposed into the national legal system. One of the subjects that has been most stressed here is related to other directives that we are implementing. I would like to point out that we are working quickly on the transposition of the directive on the purchase and sale of goods, on the directive on digital content and services and on the so-called Omnibus Directive, among others, and I have already had the opportunity to announce that we will be pioneers in many of the legislative solutions that we will adopt, in particular with regard to online markets. But let me also focus on the ASAE, because that was the scope of many interventions. First of all, to clarify that ESAE is considered in Article 9. the proposal of this law. However, I would also like to point out that during 2020, ASAE tripled e-commerce controls in 2019, from 4258 in 2019 to 14795 in 2020. In addition, ASAE now has more inspectors than it has had since at least in 2013 around 250. This means that we have committed ourselves to the training of ASAE as an organisation or as a crucial monitoring entity for the Portuguese market.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u31	Mr. Secretary of State, the PS has given some time of intervention to the Government, but it is still appropriate not to exaggerate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u32	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'm done. We are betting and investing in the modernization of the Food Safety Laboratory and also in the digitization of the inspection act. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, naturally apologizing for this excessive use of time, I mean that we will continue to work towards finding innovative legislative solutions that continue to protect and make Portugal an example in consumer protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u33	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on the agenda. We will move on to the third point, which consists of the general discussion of Bill Nos 710 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Clarify and simplify procedures for the submission of candidatures by groups of electors to the organs of the local authorities, making the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of the organs of the local authorities, 690 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tenth amendment to the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Regulation for the election of holders of local authorities'bodies ), as regards applications proposed by groups of electors, 719 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By replacing the conditions of civic and electoral participation of the citizen ( tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August and the sixth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ), 694 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensures the suspension of the amendments limiting the candidature rights of small parties and groups of electors, approved by Organic Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 21 August, during the year 2021, and makes the tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, 715 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates an exceptional and temporary regime, in the context of the epidemiological situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the disease COVID-19, to reduce the number of tenderers necessary for the submission of candidatures of groups of citizens to the general elections for local authorities to be held in 2021, as well as the twenty-third amendment to the Election Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, and the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of local authorities' organs, 728 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Alter the Electoral Law of Local Authorities (Tenth Amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ), 730 / XIV / 2. a — Amends the Act regulating the election of holders of local authorities' bodies in respect of special ineligibility ( tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of holders of local authorities'bodies as amended by Organic Law No 5 -A / 2001 of 26 November, 3 / 2005 of 29 August, 3 / 2010 of 15 December, and 1 / 2011 of 30 November, by Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July, and by Organic Law No 1 / 2017 and 2 / 2017 of 2 May, 3 / 2018 of 17 August, 1 -A / 2020 of 21 August, and 4 / 2020 of 11 November ), 757 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the political participation of groups of electorate citizens and 759 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Deletes the day of reflection and amends the voting periods. These bills will be discussed together with the Resolution Project No. 984 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare and deliver to the Assembly of the Republic the studies necessary for the introduction of non-existenceal electronic voting in accordance with Article 8 (2). the Organic Law No 3 / 2018, of 17 August. To open the debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of electoral legislation and the authentic electoral legislation is once again occupied at this afternoon's plenary session with a double scope, so to speak. On the one hand, seeking to look at matters which have been unclear or which have caused more difficulties in the application of applications from groups of electorate citizens, recognizing, of course, that when there are doubts — and if there is, the Assembly of the Republic must do so — they must be clarified and overcome and, in dialogue with the interveners and the recipients of the rules must be improved. Therefore, in addition to the proposal originally submitted, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group received and sought to maintain a constructive dialogue with representatives of citizens' movements, seeking to identify with them the main problems that diagnosed and offered already modified solutions, precisely going to meet these concerns. On the other hand, he also wanted to look at the September elections as well as the need for some pandemic management measures. Although the pandemic scenario is uncertain in this month of September, we already know enough of what was the electoral act of the elections for the presidency of the Republic in order to make some improvements in the conduct of this process. So, in a rather synthetic way, with regard to groups of electorate citizens, we also seek to clarify the possibility of candidacy of the movements to the parish in cases where they gather signatures that also integrate voters of these fregueries, which we think is not indispensable, because it is necessary for the groups of citizens to be electors of the body to which they apply. On the other hand, it is also intended to clarify the system of abbreviations, symbols and denomination, not giving in to excessive personalization, but recognizing that it is important that there is common identification when applications are effectively corresponding to the same movement. In addition, appropriate, in some circumstances, and not only in the demanding framework that has been presented to us, but even recognizing that the proposed numbers in some small parishes were sometimes inadequate. The intervals for each category were not the most adjusted ones, and so we also introduced some improvements there. We also want to introduce a clarification which may have been excessively extrapolated in the interpretation, but having this doubt needs to be corrected, which is the role that the court should play in verifying the signatures, i.e. not by going through an excessively bureaucratic path, to force notarial recognition of signatures, but also to have clear rules on the need for the court to have a role in verifying the regularity and registration in the electoral census of the procedures. Finally, by looking to meet a proposal presented by the PSD, and which seems to us to be greeting, there is the possibility of transforming and creating an electronic platform so that the collection of signatures in 2021 can be done without the need to make the door door to door with the recourse to which the technology has to offer. Therefore, we also have a proposal that, being different, that is, questions are more technical than in principle, will also seek to have, by October, an answer that facilitates and agiles the collection of signatures. With regard to the remaining aspects, and to conclude, he merely noted that, for the management of the elections in September, it will be important to bear in mind that it is necessary to qualify the exchange of electoral agents and to have slightly altered rules on the composition of the tables in order to allow the easier replacement of members who may not be present. It is still important to have a smaller number of electors per table in this vote in September so as to ensure that there will be no excessive concentration of citizens. It is also important, in this election act, to have a slightly longer deadline for the polls to be able to spread throughout the day, and it is also important, at the level of some procedures, to take into account that the exceptional legislation we have adopted in Law No 3/ 2020 needs some detailed corrections. In view of this, in the face of the very diverse range of proposals put forward, but having all of them a common fund, it seems to us that the most notified will be a low, without a vote, for 15 days, so that one can build a text as quickly as possible, because time is urgent, because there are elections in September and because it is essential that electoral legislation be stabilized as soon as possible. We give this sign that it is important that the projects go down without a vote so that we can collectively build a text that clears the doubts and ensures that the next electoral act meets the needs of combating the pandemic, but also alerts the normal functioning concerns of democratic institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u35	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to say that the debate we are having, with eight different proposals from the various parties, has, of course, a history and a framework. We did not come here by chance, because last summer, in June, at the end of the parliamentary work, the PSD, counting on collaboration, with the complicity of the Socialist Party, decided to make a legislative amendment which results in a serious obstacle to the candidatures of citizens independent of the local authorities. We may have the reading we want about independent candidatures, but the fact is that they were welcomed in Portuguese democracy many years ago to this part as something good, something positive, as a new form of participation. But the truth is that some dissidents, but, above all, some genuinely independent, have ended up asserting themselves and gaining municipal chambers, assemblies of parish and having an important role in our political life. Somehow, as we said at the time, this proposal could have another name or even a surname, which would be the « Rui Moreira law », because it was very obvious that there were some independents focused on this law and eventually there would be an independent with a concrete focus on what was proposed to us. Furthermore, it is not surprising that, now, the opinion which has been brought to our attention by this law, in particular by the rapporteur, who will use the floor, shows great concern — and I will mention that I am not mistaken — with the "possible creation of informal local parties". Local or regional parties are unconstitutional, as is evident. It is certainly not at the end of two or three mandates that we have discovered this fact and, above all, it is not normal that this fact has been discovered without first acting, in particular, before the Constitutional Court, to prevent these local base parties. As we know, what is logical is the possibility of having the same name, of not having to collect different signatures for the various organs, the possibility of using the name of the city as its party, etc. , etc... These are realities that have been used in Portuguese democracy and that have not brought any evil or problem to the world. When much can bring harm to parties that are damaged or lead to harming someone in this election. And who has already been autarch and continues to be, even though on a modest level, knows, as we all know, that the level of the parish has a reference in our model, in our autarchic architecture, has a direct involvement in the chamber and in the municipal assembly, or in the chamber through the municipal assembly, because part of the municipal assembly, which is the parliament of the chambers, is elected through the chairmen of the council. Therefore, the fact that the application is joint or has the same symbol or designation obviously makes all the sense, because it can depend on whether or not the majority exists and whether or not the city itself is governed. We do not have such an elaborate concern as the fight against informal local realities, informal parties. We only want to put back what was before, i.e. to remove the limitations imposed on the independents, so they themselves protested, the public opinion gave news and that the Socialist Party — and I salute him for that — will, at some point, put his own hand on the conscience, so to speak, and said that the solution adopted was not a good solution. The proposals on the table, which are several — ours, the PAN, the Left Block, the Liberal Initiative — basically aim to restore the previous situation. The Socialist Party's proposal too, although in a more mitigated way. Another conversation is about the pandemic and the reality of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u37	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u38	I should like to conclude by saying, Mr President, that I hope that the drafts will be brought down to committee, that they will be discussed in the committee — that of the CFP, too, I am renouncing the norm — but that there will indeed be an amendment and not merely a cosmetic exercise to leave everything more or less as it was, because that is, from our point of view, obviously unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u39	Mr José Maria Cardoso spoke for a speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The day 10 July 2020 will be in the history of this Parliament and of our democracy for bad reasons. With the initiatives presented by the PSD, which the PS provided tactical coverage, discussions with the Prime Minister were reduced to a minimum, ending with the 15-year debates and increasing the intervals of the debates on European matters. on that day, and on the same path of cuts to democracy, the reactivated central block approved changes to the electoral law for local authorities and the exercise of the right of petition with the clear intention of hindering the civic and electoral participation of the citizen. The Left Block expressed a totally contrary position to these claims and considered them an unprecedented attack on participatory democracy, precisely at a time when the calls for citizenship and the involvement of the people in political decisions make more sense to mobilize. Citizens' participation and legislation are considered essential in the opposite sense, on behalf of a political agenda marked by party interests. The amendments adopted by the PSD and the PS, with the abstention of the PCP and the ENP, aim to make it difficult for independent candidates to prevent the use of the same nomination in lists to the municipal chamber bodies and municipal assembly and to the bodies of the parish of the same council, to prevent the sharing of the symbol of candidatures of groups of citizens in voting ballots between the various local bodies of the same council and to make it difficult to collect signatures, requiring the multiplication of this nomination by each candidature of the parish body, regardless of the number of nominations for the municipal chamber bodies and municipal assembly. in this same order of cutting rights, it was also approved a legal aberration by transforming into special ineligibility the case that any citizen or citizen may, at the same time, be a candidate to the municipal chamber bodies and municipal assembly of the same municipality — this Article 7. o point 3 ( c ). What is the meaning of this impediment? Anticipate incompatibilities of charge performance? Even if that happens, the electorate will always have to opt for the mandate. The aim is to obstruct the submission of applications from groups of citizens and parties with less local implementation, i.e., this is once again an attack on citizen participation. The Left Block corroborates the view that the legal impossibilities in force are violating the constitutional right to take part in the political life and in the direction of the country's political affairs, as stated in the request sent to the Constitutional Court by the Ombudsman for three reasons: the grave impact of citizens' involvement in the promotion and safeguarding of the interests of the community in which they belong; the impossibility of the same group of electors to dispute all the mandates to be fulfilled; there are no grounds of public interest justifying the legislative amendment. The public outcry of several chamber presidents, the approach of internal autarchic conflicts and perhaps the recognition of gross error caused the PS to have an act of political contrition that led to the drag of the PSD. I am glad that has happened, and for this reason we are discussing amendments to the recently amended Organic Law No 1 - A / 2020 of 21 August today. During the debate of this law, the Left Block, as a basis for the option to vote against, alerted to the constitutional dangers that this could entail and considered that what was at issue was a backwardness in Portuguese democracy and local power, with wrong choices, guided only by the calculation of party advantage. Therefore, in consistency, we present this legislative initiative, which aims to restore the conditions of civic and electoral participation of citizens, proposing the repeal of a set of points contained in the articles which have been amended. In the principle of the intransigent defence and mobilization of citizen participation, with the non-acceptance of legal barriers to its procedure and how to contribute to the re-approach of initiatives promoted by citizens and citizens to this Parliament, we also propose the amendment to the law of the exercise of the right of petition, correcting the unacceptable amendment by the PS and the PSD, which demobilizes, by procedural obstacle, as important way of civic participation as that of the citizen petition. by considerably increasing the number of signatures necessary for the assessment of petitions in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, from 4000 to 7500 ( the original intention was to move to 10 000, but the presidential veto led to contraction ), and by increasing the minimum limit from 1000 to 2500 petitioners for assessment by the parliamentary committee, this change comes in clear contradiction with popular claims and propagated biases to bring the citizens of the institutions closer together. In fact, the argument that the possibility of collecting digital signatures caused the number of petitions to proliferate and trivialized this instrument has no connection to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u41	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u42	I conclude, Mr. President. In the last four-year legislatures, the number of petitions submitted was very similar. Thus, it is not for that reason that the so-called 'banalisation' of the petition instrument is done. It is therefore important to change this reality, which has brought our democracy back. Finally, I just wanted to say that we agree with the fall of these initiatives to the committee, without a vote, for a period of 15 days, and we have also submitted this request, to create conditions for consensus and clarify positions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u43	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate today, whether we want or not, and no matter how many people try to deny it, it is no more than trying to clean up a mess that the central block made last summer and which, more than a joke, also constitutes a serious constitutional limitation to everyone and anyone who wants to participate in public life and in particular in political life. In fact, it is said that in a few legislative processes there was so much rush to promote an amendment. We had a process in which the PSD, under a cover of good intentions in terms of transparency, brought a law almost ad homme, where he wanted to change aspects in which the courts in the past had not even given him reason. As if all of this, by itself, was not bad, we had the PS to quickly hand over the PSD and still challenge the right of all groups of elective citizens, and even small parties, to participate more plurally in the elections. This is, at least, a worrying attitude, which comes in the path of a restriction of rights already mentioned here in this Chamber, and it is particularly worrying — we cannot fail to say — coming from a party that had a crucial role in modernising the local power operated by the 1997 constitutional review, modernisation which, among other aspects, put an end to one of the monopolies of the parties, by allowing the candidacy of the groups of citizens... [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] It's exactly the PS I'm talking about, Mrs. Member! This has come in contradiction with what the PS has done in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u45	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u46	Therefore, it is incomprehensible what has been the Socialist Party's choice in this matter. This process resulted in an amendment to the electoral law of dubious constitutionality, which, in fact, on the impulse of the Ombudsman, is precisely under consideration in the Constitutional Court. This amendment, by preventing the list of proposers of a group of citizens from being the same in the candidacy of each of the bodies to which they compete, makes it very difficult for these groups to compete with all the Fregueses. This, for the NAP and, by the way, for the Ombudsman, grossly violates the equality and right of participation in public life provided for in our Basic Law, as well as being hardly in accordance with the constitutional design of the groups of electors. in the same way, and we cannot help but say, the impediment of the parties and groups of electors to repeat candidates in the lists for the municipal assembly and for the municipal chamber puts an end to a practice permitted since the first municipal elections, which took place in 1976. Moreover, this new practice will be maintained, it will effectively restrict and withdraw from the electoral competition several small parties and groups of electorate citizens and it is no longer aimed at winning an electoral process in secretarial rather than going to the game in broad and equal conditions among all political forces. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this amendment, in addition to being unnecessary, since the electoral law already provides for precisely a regime of incompatibilities in the occupation of the two positions, is very doubtful constitutionality, by violation of, inter alia, the right to participate in public life and the principle of equal opportunities. Not to mention the fact that this amendment, having emerged in the specialty, was not even the subject of consultation with the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ), as set out in Article 141. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, it is also important to look at another amendment which relates to the process of verifying the authenticity of the nominations of candidates for election groups. An amendment which, as of August last year, deserved serious criticism by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, which, in addition to complaining that it had not been heard, warned that this amendment would bring the risk of delays in the electoral process or of failure by the courts to comply with the new legal obligations. It is said that the NAP emerges in this debate with the calm conscience of those who voted against all the proposed amendments to this legislation. For this debate, we have brought a set of proposals and alternatives that aim to strengthen the democratic system instead of removing the remaining political forces. In fact, we have a proposal with which we intend to immediately repeal all the restrictive rules of the right to apply for groups of electors, in the Constitutional Court's view, those rules which we all believe, including the Socialist Party, recognize to be dubious constitutionality. But we can't stay here. It is important to suspend the validity of the limitation of applications simultaneously to the two municipal bodies and somehow mitigate what was a mistake from the past, so that this forecast cannot lead to a trickle, to the detriment of a path of democratic participation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Promoting citizen participation and combating abstention, re-approaching the people of political life, cannot be a flag that we all shake in electoral times, then in this House of Democracy, to make a table of constitutional principles and values. That is why we are going to reduce the initiatives to the specialty, so that they can be discussed, but we appeal to the central bloc to accompany the remaining political forces in this concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u47	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 1976, a group of electors must have an umbilical connection to the territorial community they want to represent, when applying for an authority. This is why it is justified that each tenderer on a list of independents should be identified in the authority to which the list is presented. At the same time, political parties or coalitions of political parties can compete in local elections, constituting the different types of candidatures, parties or independents, an unquestionable cornerstone of the local democratic system. And the law, according to the principle of material equality, deals in different ways with different applications, without at any time such treatment being disproportionate. The requirement for signatures for the lists of independents, with minimum and maximum limits, is to ensure that they actually emanate from the community they want to represent, because that is the only way to make sense of their existence. With this bill, the PSD proposes the possibility of collecting signatures also by digital means, with the citizen card, in the presidential and municipal elections, something unprecedented in our electoral system and which aims to facilitate the lives of citizens. In 2021, because of the pandemic, we also propose a reduction of 25 % of the signatures necessary for the candidatures of independents. We also propose that groups of electorate citizens may use similar names, but never by confusing their different origin or nature in the territory, which makes them necessarily different. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will not allow, with our proposal, the establishment of informal local independent parties, which are not controlled by the Constitutional Court, contrary to what happens to political parties. Nor will we allow the creation of coalitions of different groups of electorate citizens, against the Constitution of the Republic. And we will not allow anyone who is not a candidate for an authority to have his name in the ballot. We do not assume that there are better or worse applications, depending on whether they are independent or political parties. Everyone has its importance. And here, let me say that we should look at the opinion of the National Elections Commission, which is widely reported today, which proposes the mandatory disclosure of affiliates in the parties that integrate lists of independents. I remember that, even today, for the parties, the disclosure of the independents on their lists is mandatory. Either they are independent or they are not, and voters have the right to know! With this project, the PSD does not grant the possibility of 30 or 50 people joining a café or a restaurant to submit a candidacy for violation of the minimum proportionality and that this proposal of a party does not reach. And we will not suspend the task of the courts in verifying the actual candidatures, as other parties want, since this would lead to the abandonment of the electoral process. We defend the participation of citizens within the constitutional framework and call for the possibility of extending the consensus in the specialty so that the electoral law is adopted by a sufficiently representative majority. The PSD Parliamentary Group has also called for the fall of initiatives to the specialist without a vote. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u49	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this liberal minute, which today is a double one, let's talk about facts related to electoral laws. Fact: Today, the state treats Portuguese as children, paternalistically, by insisting on the useless day of reflection. There is no evidence that the day of reflection really contributes to a more thoughtful or rational choice. Fact: the maturity of the Portuguese democratic regime, the emergence of new technologies and forms of communication, such as social networks, the vote in mobility, the early vote, make the day of reflection totally obsolete. I just hope that the baffling objections of the National Elections Commission do not have to do with the fact that the unfair fines that continue to impose on them because of the violation of the anachronistic day of reflection are very good. And I also hope that the silence of the remaining benches on the day of reflection, so far, will not be a sign of complicity in its continuation. Another fact: there are people who are unable to vote on a certain day for reasons related to professional reasons, travel or illness, but who could have done so on the previous day or could have done so on the following day. The Liberal Initiative therefore supports flexibility that can promote all and any increase in electoral participation. It is also a fact that, in July 2020, the central party bloc, PS and PSD, joined in this Chamber, to amend the Electoral Law of Local Authorities, amending the rules for independent candidatures in order to make them difficult, something which at the time the Liberal Initiative promptly denounced. This democratic approach was so serious that the Ombudsman himself sent a request for a declaration of unconstitutionality of the diploma to the Constitutional Court and at the time stated that these amendments made it impossible in practice to apply for the majority of citizens' groups to the elections in the state, and this is for the benefit of the major political parties. It is therefore urgent to amend the Electoral Law of Local Authorities and, having been Parliament creating this situation, it must also be Parliament to correct it here in plenary or committee work, but always in the time of the forthcoming autarchic elections, I repeat, always in the time of the forthcoming autarchic elections. It seems that now the central block also wants to go back and allow some of these changes. All right, maybe it's a sign that the PS and PSD repented of what they did last summer. If so, they will be voting in favour of the Liberal Initiative's proposal and this is because — and this is the last fact — it is never too late to acknowledge that it has been wrong and it is never too late to change.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u51	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of the multiplicity of proposals that we have to appreciate today, in general, around the electoral laws, we prefer to focus on what is essential, because it concerns the electoral act that we have six months away and which has motivated this legislative process. This is the question of applications to the bodies of the local authorities. That is the question that brings us here today and everything else is accessory. Questions such as whether more tests, studies or simulations on electronic votes should be done or whether Facebook or Twitter will ever be replaced by voting booths, whether elections should take place in one day or in two, followed or alternated, whether or not there should be a day of reflection or whether we should use a legislative process on electoral laws to raise questions relating to the exercise of the right to petition, even if fair, is not what we are dealing with in this legislative process. There will be time and opportunity to discuss and decide on these and other issues, but what brings us to this debate today is not that. What gives rise to this legislative process is the repentance of the PS and, to some extent, of the PSD, with regard to the legislation that they adopted in 2020 on the candidatures of groups of electors to local authorities, after the public dispute that these standards suffered, mainly from elected authorships on lists of groups of citizens. What is on the table is the amendment to a legal regime that has never been applied and which will probably never become, but which, contrary to what has already been said, has not been made in a hurry nor corresponded to any thoughtless option, either on the part of the PS or the PSD. Of course, it was not made in a hurry because there was no reason to be in a hurry. The law was passed in 2020 when local elections would only take place at the end of 2021 and those who remember the debates then took place can verify that the options taken by PS and PSD were widely defended by both. The question is indeed of repentance, and in the case of the PS at some points it proposes changes of diametrically opposite direction to what it then defended. Your position reminds you of a sentence attributed to Groucho Marx : « these are my principles, but if you do not like them, I have others». In view of this, it is important to make it clear that the position of the CFP in relation to the lists of electorate citizens is that, being presented in the exercise of a right perfectly legitimized by the Constitution and by the law, it must correspond to it a fair legal regime, which takes account of its specificity and does not result in any further difficulties or in excessive facilities. In short, the candidatures of groups of citizens should not be harmed or benefited from compared with the lists of parties or coalitions. It is important not to forget in this regard that the law, by allowing the name of a list of electors to include the name of a natural person, already represents a privileged situation in relation to parties and coalitions, recognized the degree of personalization surrounding the elections. However, this privilege will already be unacceptable if a candidature is allowed to use, in its name, the name of a natural person who does not even stand as a candidate for the authority concerned. The PS proposal would have this result.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u53	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u54	In other words, when presenting a list to the chamber and the municipal assembly, this list of electors could present in their name the name of a natural person who is not a candidate for the parish, but in addition, it is proposed that he have a candidacy bonus for all the parish, through the symbolic number of signatures. This means discrimination between potential lists of electorate citizens at the level of parish, i.e. if the group of electorate citizens presents themselves to the municipal and parish bodies, it does not need to collect the same number of signatures that will be required from a group of electorate citizens who legitimately competes only with their parish. This discrimination is also unacceptable. One thing is to accept that a group of elective citizens can compete with the generality of the municipal bodies and can also compete with the assemblies of parish, another thing is to create discrimination in relation to other groups of citizens who want to present themselves at a level of parish. Mr President, on the other hand, there will obviously be room for equalizing amendments that are justified by the situation that may still occur with regard to COVID-19 within six months. We hope not, but we agree that we can see the rules on time enlargement to allow the discharge of votes before 8 a.m. or the reduction in the number of voters per table. We're available for that. Mr President, in conclusion, we propose that this ineligibility created in 2020 be eliminated which prevents the citizen, a natural person, from competing simultaneously with the municipal chamber and with the municipal assembly. It is true that there must be an incompatibility — it is obvious — as regards the exercise of the two positions, but we see no reason, and, indeed, no valid reason has been presented for such incompatibility to become ineligibility and people to be prevented from applying. It is not that this is a common practice followed by the CDU (Unitarian Democratic Coalition ), but we believe that there is no reason to prevent such impossibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u55	You have the word Mrs. Deputy not enrolled Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The data released by the National Association of Independent Autarchic Movements demonstrate a clear growth of groups of independent voters who obtained almost 10% of the votes in the 2017 municipal elections. The recent amendments introduced by Organic Law No 1 -A / 2020 have been unacceptablely restricting applications for independent movements. With these amendments, it has been banned from the same group of citizens to submit candidatures to municipal bodies and to the parish assemblies of the same council, at the same time, which means that it is no longer possible for the same group, with the same name, logo and symbol, to present candidatures simultaneously to the municipal chamber, to the municipal assembly and more than a parish assembly. For this reason, the Ombudsman has already requested the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of its Article 19. , paragraphs 4 and 5, alone and when combined with paragraph 6 of the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, because it constitutes a violation of the freedom to participate in public life, which translates into the right, which assists all, to take part in the political life and in the direction of the political affairs of the country. In fact, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic provides that applications for elections by local authorities may be submitted by political parties, either alone or in a coalition, or by groups of elective citizens. The political participation of citizens must always be applauded and encouraged so independent movements should have the opportunity to exercise this right. We therefore propose an amendment to the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001, with the aim of ensuring the existence of minimum conditions of political participation for groups of electorate citizens and consequently ensuring compliance with the provisions of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u57	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What was done last summer was to make life extremely difficult for independent movements and, when we make life difficult for independent movements, we make life difficult for democracy. That is because this was the point of the proposals we have just approved in this House in recent years. It doesn't make sense for independent movements to see their lives tremendously difficult, as was decided last summer in this House, and it doesn't make sense that candidates can't be the same in the municipal chamber and in the municipal assembly. There is no legal reason or constitutional reason for a candidate to choose between the exercise of both functions to be prevented from applying. It would be the same as saying that the Prime Minister cannot be a candidate for a Member, when, in fact, after being elected a Member, he has to choose between being a Member or being a Prime Minister. This situation is constitutionally unjustifiable and, therefore, we will follow the proposals in this regard. The day of reflection has become an absolute futility. In eight countries of the European Union propaganda is done until the polls are closed, in Portugal we have the polls closed, the country silent and eight countries campaigning, as happened in the European elections. A total and absolute political anachronism which is not justified at any point in the European Union. The day of reflection, with the technological and communication media we have today, has become an absurd, which only serves to propagate myths, to ensure stereotypes...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u59	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u60	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the day of reflection only serves to propagate myths, to ensure stereotypes and to allow the political conditioning of freedom of expression and meaningless fines of the National Elections Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u61	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As part of the legislative process that led to the latest amendments to the Electoral Law of Local Authorities, the PS and PSD adopted a standard that prevents citizens from being candidates to the municipal chamber and to the municipal assembly of the same municipality. We believe that, in fact, there is an incompatibility if a person is a member of the executive of a chamber and, at the same time, is part of its municipal assembly, but to transpose this incompatibility into the candidatures is that it makes no sense. This is because one thing is the incompatibility in the exercise of the office of mayor and at the same time as a member of the municipal assembly and another very different thing is that the citizen is a candidate for the two bodies and here there is no such incompatibility. Thus, if there is any incompatibility in this regime, it does not belong to accumulating applications but, rather, to a confrontation with our Constitution. Therefore, the only incompatibility, in this prohibition, is of another nature and dimension, because it conflicts with the constitutional text, from the outset with Article 50. on access to public office. We are thus in a kind of authoritarian incompatibilities, of previous incompatibilities or presumed incompatibilities, but these precipitated judgments cannot take place especially when fundamental rights are at issue, or are achieved, until incompatibilities are not like fish, which before it was. No, incompatibilities arise with the mandate, not with the candidatures. That is why we are following the PCP and the Block on this subject, as well as the Block on Petitions, because, in fact, the PSD and PS, in their undertaking to devalue parliamentary work, have also created difficulties in the discussion of petitions. However, we do not follow the Block with regard to the sharing of nomination symbols from independent citizen groups among the various bodies of the same municipality, and we do not follow it exactly for the same reasons that lead us to reject the PS and PSD proposals, that is, because the municipality is an autarchy and the parish is another authority. We are always talking about different authorities, even if it is the same council; therefore, it does not seem to us that it is sensible to use the name, for example, of a natural person in various applications of various authorities, I repeat, even within the same council. As regards the reduction in the number of subscriptions for applications by groups of citizens, I would say that the PS proposal primarily promotes absolutely essential discrimination. Let us see: if a group of citizens competes with the bodies of the municipality and with the bodies of the parish, for the candidacy of the bodies of the parish, the number of candidates equal to the electors of the board and the assembly of the parish is sufficient; if a group of citizens want to compete only with a parish, 3 % of registered voters are required, i.e. for the nominations of groups of citizens, there are no nominations of first and second candidates. It doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u64	Mrs Isabel Oneto of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this minute and a half, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been raised here concerning the Socialist Party and it is interesting that all the banks have referred more to the position of the Socialist Party than to that of the PSD itself, the author of the proposal last year. It is because, in fact, they are used to seeing in the PS a reference in terms of what our democratic system is and what role the PS has played in our democratic history, precisely with regard to the participation of voters. In fact, it was at the initiative of the Socialist Party that the possibility of groups of electorate citizens competing in the elections was introduced in the Constitution. Therefore, in this matter, it is appropriate to clarify what has been the role of the Socialist Party throughout history. In fact, having identified the consequences of this candidacy of independent citizens, the PS immediately raised the question of saying that it would correct the law in order to ensure such participation. But we cannot but mention a question that has been raised, when it was said that the PS intends to hinder the issue of simultaneous applications to municipal bodies. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke in an ad hommem law and I thought she was referring to herself. In fact, Mrs Deputies, the question is not about citizens' freedom to apply, it is about transparency for voters, so they know who they are voting on and why. It's that tomorrow we can have a citizen competing for 10 different cameras. And I ask: why can't you do it? After all, you're competing for what? It is a matter of transparency, which is a principle of our democratic right and of our electoral system. In fact, therefore, it is appropriate that all these matters should be discussed, in the field of expertise, to look at those who are our fundamental principles. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u66	Mr Carneiro of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate we have made here today highlights some notes that I cannot help but point out. The Socialist Party's proposal fails because it allows a candidate to have his or her individual name entered in the ballot of other authorities to which he or she is not a candidate. This violates the principle of electoral truth. It also fails to provide the necessary subscriptions. The Communist Party Member pointed out, well, that this may eventually lead to an issue of inequality between candidatures of groups of electors and I look at this criticism. It also fails because it makes it easier to present a list of candidatures independent of a parish than the voters themselves directly convene an extraordinary parish assembly. So see where the principle of proportionality is! Open... The proposals of the Socialist Party and other parties effectively allow — and we cannot escape this finding — the formation of informal local parties. And let me tell you why, with due respect, I think there is a lot of misinformation on the part of many of you. Members here - today there are private law associations that support groups of electorate citizens, which are not controlled either by the Constitutional Court or by any public authority. Therefore, I think it would be a good idea to study some of these aspects better, because there are phenomena that are happening, that you are not understanding and that you are contending with the Constitution itself. I would also like to say, on a criticism I have heard, that the change in 2020 has not been made ad hommem. The 2017 amendment adopted in this Parliament by the parliamentary left—probably not by all parties on the left, I am doing this justice—is that it was made ad hommem when, at the request of an independent candidate, an amendment was made in May 2017. And it should be recalled that there were no cases in a hurry, because the legislative process of 2020 entered Parliament in March. Ladies and gentlemen. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that, contrary to what has been said by the Member of the Left Block, there is no multiplication of signatures. Each body corresponds to an individual and autonomous process, with an independent trial in the court and a proper numbering, as the party's candidatures have. It is necessary not to confuse concepts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u68	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u69	Finally, Mr President, on the comments on the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, I believe that we must not prevent the supervision of the court. That would be dangerous for democracy. If there's a problem with the number of days, then let's increase it. This solution seems more sensible to me and I think that we should strive to reach consensus in the field of expertise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u70	To close the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Oneto of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to make it clear that the PS proposal states that « the name of the groups of electors can only be incorporated in a singular name if he is from the first candidate to their body, except in the case of the groups of electors simultaneously candidates to the municipal chamber and the municipal assembly», not putting the question of the board. It's just a question of clarification. In any case, Mr President, I would like to say that we are dealing with a matter which is structural for our democratic system and which is based on very firm constitutional principles. Thus, every step we take in relation to the process of electoral construction is the practical application of the constitutional principles regarding our electoral process. We must therefore make changes, yes, but changes that contribute to the civic participation of the citizens, to political participation, to the mobilization for the electoral act, without this altering what is fundamental in our electoral system, which is their credibility, their reliability, because it also depends on the legitimacy of the electors themselves. We therefore welcome the fact that all these projects can be brought down to committee without a vote, because the plurality of proposals that have been tabled also means that this House is aware of the work it has to do on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u72	Let us therefore enter the fourth item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in draft Law Nos 613 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Fourteenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March 636 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Determines the possibility of a temporary replacement of Members in the event of an election of President of the Republic, of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira or of an organ holder of the local authorities ( Tenth Amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ) and 638 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Statute of Deputies concerning the suspension of the mandate ( Tenth fourth amendment to the Statute of Deputies, approved by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ). You have the floor to open the debate, Mr André Coelho Lima, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u73	I begin by congratulating Mr President and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. If, unfortunately, a Member of Parliament has a serious illness that will cause him to be more than 180 days away from parliamentary function, this Parliament believes that he must give up his mandate. This Parliament and the laws which the king ceases to believe, decline in their possibility of salvation or healing and force them to renounce their mandate. If a Member of Parliament has a family member, his or her husband or wife in a state of terminal health and wants to spend the last few days on the side of the person he or she loves, this Parliament does not allow him or her to do so. If a Member has serious family problems that require his or her presence with his or her family, his or her children or other members of his or her aggregate, this Parliament does not allow him or her to do so. Even if a Member has a unique opportunity to complete his master's or his doctorate or his employer's — yes, because there are Members with employers outside the State — give him a unique opportunity to take a course in a prestigious university and complete his training, Parliament does not allow him to do so. Even if a Member wishes to apply for the President of the Republic and suspend the mandate for the campaign, this is not allowed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to remind you, if not all of you, that there are Members who do not live in Lisbon, which means that they cannot meet the human needs of their family at night, at home, after working in Parliament. I would also like to remind you that there are Members who have professional lives before and after being Members, and hopefully. It is our duty, if we want to fight for democracy rather than for the lives of Members, to ensure that those who may not miss the opportunities, sometimes unique, that arise within the framework of those lives that they had and that they will again have, maintaining respect for the role of Member and for the dignity of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, in principle, to allow all of this that I have just said that it cannot be done on the basis of justified shortcomings to better defend the prestige of parliamentary function. This is, in our view, a functionalist vision, a proletarian vision of the honourable Member, and I must say, a hypocritical vision, because, in reality, people who do things are allowed to do things, but they are not allowed to suspend their mandates in order to do so in a clear and serious way. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end by reading a section of the explanatory statement that has brought us here, which, of course, seems particularly happy to describe what I have just said: « Democracy is better served by parliamentarians who are citizens, professionals of different experiences, Portuguese and Portuguese who, not having adopted politics as a career, must be available to serve the country in political functions, as happens with the role of Member. That is why, in defence of the dignity of the role of Member, it is argued that its Statute should favour, rather than withdraw, those who wish to serve the country in its Assembly of the Republic only for a certain period of their lives, thus benefiting democracy, thereby benefiting transparency, thereby benefiting the representative transversality, by combating the functionalism of the role of Member. A vision such as that mirrored in various passages of the Statute of the Members in force is merely a functionalist view of the Parliamentary. A vision that narrows paths, a vision that hinders access to those who do not belong to the world of politics or parties, in a word, a vision that pushes for the dependence of party life, which is to all undesirable titles, because it is castrifying individual freedoms, so necessary for the good performance of the noble parliamentary function. This vision does not obscure the role of a Member, rather, it ends it, making it available only those who are interested in making the political function a career. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u74	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u75	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The debate that the NAP is pushing with its initiative today focuses on the discussion of what steps can be taken in a democratic rule of law to ensure citizens' passive electoral capacity, whether they are public-sector or private-sector citizens, whether they are Members of Parliament. We are therefore faced with a debate on how best to ensure full respect for the fundamental rights provided for in law and in the Constitution. We do so because such respect is far from being assured at present, since there is a clear difference between what is in the law and the Constitution and the interpretation given to it by Parliament and, in particular, by the Committee on Transparency, and by its predecessor, the Subcommittee on Ethics. But let us see: the Constitution is to stone the right of participation in public life and the right of access, under conditions of equality and freedom, to public office, something well-accomplished by electoral legislation for various positions, which, with the exception of elections to the European Parliament, provides for the right of all candidates to waive their duties. In other words, in the elections to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira or to the bodies of the local authorities, electoral legislation provides for such a dispensation to take place during the electoral campaign period and, in the elections for the Presidency of the Republic, such dispensation is expected to take place from the date of the nomination until the day of the election. These provisions seem clear and unequivocal in order to ensure that all citizens, whether they are Members or not, have their full passive electoral capacity. But in Parliament and, in particular, in the Committee on Transparency, not everything seems to be. The Transparency Committee has been equal to itself: as it focuses on a restrictive reading of the letter of the law when it comes to identifying conflicts of interest of Members or applying the rules of incompatibility, it also focuses on the restrictive reading of the Statute of Members when discussing whether or not a Member may suspend the mandate to contest an election. What has been decided by the Transparency Committee in this case is that the provisions of electoral law are not poured into the causes of temporary suspension of the mandate provided for in the Statute of Members and therefore in spite of Article 1. paragraph 3 states that the Statute of Deputies is composed of other applicable legal provisions, a Member may not suspend his or her mandate to participate in the electoral process. In other words, one Member, who so often enjoys privileges with the other ordinary citizens, is, in this case, a second citizen for the Transparency Committee. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative that the NAP brings is simple: it is a matter of giving the Statute of Members consistency with the authentic legislation that the interpretation of the Transparency Committee has not been able to give. In the Statute of Members, it is necessary to form a right to suspend the mandate to participate in certain electoral acts and not to create an obligation to suspend the mandate. We believe that the terms of the proposal are appropriate, but we are available to work on the idea in the specialty and to reflect, for example, whether it makes sense to have such a broad formulation as the bodies of the local authorities, or whether we should lay down the same rules for the European Parliament, where this rule is not foreseen. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u76	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. The next intervention is the CDS, and for that reason Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS participates in this legislative process with a draft law with two essential objectives, first of which is what we believe to be a good principle for the adoption of rules for all Members of this House of the Republic. What is that principle? Oh, my God! The principle of the greatest possible majority in the adoption of these rules. The Statute of the Members of the European Parliament, which we now have in force, specifically on this matter of suspension of office by Members, was approved in a legislature in which the Socialist Party had an absolute, unique and exclusive majority by the Members of that parliamentary group, and not even by all. This, from the point of view of the rules of an institution, is deeply wrong. There are no owners of the institutions, although, at the same time, any of the forces may have sufficient majority to approve a rule. It is also necessary to understand what impact this has. Since the rules cannot be changed all the time, as the rules cannot change all the time, it is up to the majority to have the responsibility and good sense to seek consensus for the adoption of these amendments — all that the Socialist Party has not done. The Socialist Party, a few years ago, decided to make this amendment to the Statute of Members because it felt threatened by the Members that the Left Block was electing. It goes from there, it becomes a ghastly table of everything that has always been the working principle of Parliament, because what counts is the electoral interest of the Socialist Party and, if the Socialist Party can lose Members for the Left Block, then the rules of Parliament change all! Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, it was not acceptable at the time and it is not acceptable now. Do you remember what has changed and the sense that this can do: does it make any sense for a Member who is ill, with a serious illness, to be able to do it for only 180 days? That is what you have consecrated. Does it make sense that anyone who wishes to support a family member cannot suspend his or her term of office, cease receiving his or her salary, but can already fail to justify the lack, continue to receive and in Parliament the place is empty? This is the democracy that you are defending, with the law that is currently in force. There is less representation in Parliament. In the Member's personal life there is still a benefit that he himself might want to avoid, for reasons of transparency, seriousness and honorability, but he cannot. Why? Oh, my God! Because the Socialist Party doesn't. The Socialist Party believes that it is much better to miss out than, transparently, to suspend the mandate. That's not acceptable. That is by no means acceptable. We therefore believe that a Member, not being an official, but being a holder of a political body, a representative of citizens, should be able to exercise his mandate in full transparency, maintaining the essence of his family, professional and academic life. No one understands, for example, that a Member who has an academic career cannot, transparently, say it again, suspend his mandate, no longer receive his salary or any other benefit to which he is entitled and be replaced by another representative of the citizens — who are entitled to continue to be represented — so that he can provide academic evidence to continue his course. What you want is for Members to be dependent on parliamentary life, dependent on public history, if possible all their life. This does not enhance the parliamentary function. This degrades the parliamentary function because, on the one hand, it does not allow Members to acquire competences, which may even be particularly useful in the performance of functions, and on the other hand, makes them absolutely dependent on these rules. That is why we understand that the moment now being opened may be very important in order to dignify the role of Members and in giving transparency to what is, at the moment, particularly opaque, because of the responsibility of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u78	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is discussed with these legislative initiatives is whether the current parliamentary rule, which forces a Member or a Member with an extended disease to be missed and, therefore, to stop representing the mandate for which he was elected, can allow him to be replaced by someone on his list, which corresponds to the same electoral programme with which they were voting and which can give his representation in this Parliament, during the period when that extended disease is happening. Does that impediment make sense? Oh, my God! It doesn't make sense. in the same way, the current law obliges those who need to give family support or to miss parliamentary work for some weightier reason, to justify their lack, leaving the chair empty, because it does not have the possibility to be replaced by those who followed it on the same list, by whom it was the elections exactly with the same programme that will defend in Parliament. There is therefore an absolutisation of the mandate of Member, in a perspective which denies it in its exercise. This absolutization has already been condemned by the Left Block many times. Even now, I follow the reflection that Mr. João Almeida has made: it is too often judged in politics, which is in the secretary who arranges election victories,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u81	...and this rule was created exactly to combat the growth of the Left Block. It was in the secretary that tried to prevent what the Left Block did with all transparency and never any electorate or electorate of the Left Block claimed to have been deceived or in any way committed to their will with these substitutions that were normally done in the Assembly of the Republic. Now, the Socialist Party made these changes in 2007 / 2008. By the way, it was not one or two times that the Left Block tried to change them in Parliament. Interestingly, the PSD has always given the Socialist Party a hand so that these changes do not happen. So, what's changed now? Oh, my God! What has now changed for this contribution of the Democratic Social Party? Oh, my God! What would the PSD have thought about, now, changing your mind? Oh, my God! Did you see the light? Oh, my God! Did any lighthouse light up the PSD's opinion? Oh, my God! by the visas, the PSD lighthouse is called André Ventura, because it was following André Ventura's positions and crocodile tears that the PSD stated, in committee and in Parliament, to have a desire to bring about a change to the law. I reinforce what I said a little ago: crocodile tears, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an artificial victimization of a Member who, during the period he was elected, announced several times that he would suspend his mandate, knowing, because it has been warned several times, that the law did not allow it, and not once again, I do not try to change the law. What did he do? Oh, my God! In an electoral period, he did a theater number to be able to victimize himself and say that, once again, he was a victim of the system, when he is so part of the system! He knew that if he wanted to, he could have changed things, but he didn't want to change. Now, then, the PSD falls into this game of André Ventura's drama and now changes of opinion. I must say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have two weights or two measures. That is why, in the same way that we stand up for these ideas, we will vote in favour of all initiatives, to arrive at a good text in the field of expertise. However, we do not mix them with an artificial dramatization and a political game of those who spark democracy, as did and how did Mr Ventura. If the PSD sees its light there, its lighthouse is the choice of the PSD, but in this process, we are not involved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u82	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have discussed three legislative initiatives that propose amendments to the Statute of Members, all with the same purpose or in the same sense, which is to make the suspension regime of parliamentary mandate less restrictive. They intend, on the one hand, to make it less restrictive, in the light of the rules laid down by Law No 44/ 2006 in the case of the proposals of the PSD and the CDS-PP, and, on the other hand, to establish the possibility of temporary replacement of Members in the case of nomination of the President of the Republic, the Member of the Legislatures of the Autonomous Regions or the holder of local authorities bodies, in the case of the NAP proposal. In advance, I say that the Greens generally follow these three proposals. We follow them because, in fact, we also consider that, in the case of applications to the various bodies, the right of participation in public life and the right of equal and freedom to public office is at stake. Therefore, if, from the point of view of our legislative electoral architecture, the discharge of the duties is planned for the candidatures of these positions, we see no reason why Members should continue to exclude this possibility. With regard to the draft laws of the PSD and the CDS-PP, it is a fact that, in accordance with the current drafting of the Statute of Deputies, the situations envisaged for the suspension of the mandate of Members are absolutely insufficient and therefore we also find it necessary to make the rules less restrictive, as the authors of the initiatives propose. It should be recalled that the current rules of the Statute of Members allow only three possibilities for suspension of the mandate: for relevant reasons, criminal proceedings or in the event of incompatibilities. The relevant reason is considered only in the following cases: serious disease involving the impediment to the exercise of functions; exercise of parental and maternity leave; the need to ensure the follow-up of criminal proceedings. They are therefore very restrictive rules that need to be amended, until they can be brought closer to the regime that was in force before Law No 44/ 2006, again focusing on the responsibility of Members for the exercise of their mandate, without, of course, prejudice to the necessary parliamentary and public scrutiny, which must continue to be present, and the punctual nature of the suspension, which, moreover, the proposals, both the PSD and the CDS-PP, assure. Finally, and in addition to the nature too restrictive that the current regime imposes, it also contains elements that are absolutely incomprehensible and that have already been referred to by two benches, as is the case with the suspension of the mandate for serious illness involving the impediment to the exercise of functions, which has a temporary limit of 180 days. However, to force a Member to give up the mandate only because he had the unhappiness of being ill for more than 180 days does not seem at least acceptable to us either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u84	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin speaking in this debate by quoting my colleague Antonio Filipe, in his speech on 19 May 2006, when the amendment to the Statute of the Members who are again under consideration was discussed. My comrade Antonio Filipe said on May 19, 2006 : « If this project is approved, then a Member may only suspend the mandate if he has a prolonged disease that is compulsively far from Parliament, if he has maternity or paternity leave or if he is charged with any crime involving suspension of the mandate. In addition, nothing, absolutely nothing else will be relevant so that the mandate can be suspended. Do not keep on seeking. ” And he continued: « Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, I would ask them to reflect on some examples, such as the following: a Member shall take up office as President or Secretary-General of a Party, or a candidate shall be appointed. For a limited period of time, it is legitimately understood that its availability for the exercise of the parliamentary mandate is lower and, rather than justifying shortcomings on the basis of political work, it decides not to overburden the public record, nor to prejudice the work of the Assembly, and calls for a suspension. Do you think this makes no sense? Oh, my God! Another example: a candidate Member is the president of a municipal chamber or the President of the Republic and, although he is not obliged to do so, he believes that, given his particular occupation during the election campaign period, it would be preferable not to overburden the public record or Parliament's work and asks for a limited period of time to replace it. Do you also think this makes no sense? Oh, my God! I tell you more: one Member has the unhappiness of being confronted with a disease situation of a close family member. They assume that this family member needs to travel abroad for treatment and that the Member concerned has absolutely a need to accompany. So far, I could suspend the mandate for a limited period. If the PS project is approved or renounced or makes unjustified errors. Do you think that banning suspension in one of these cases makes any sense? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not witches, but there was no need to be sorcerers to guess, in 2006 what would naturally result from the amendments which at the time the absolute majority of the Socialist Party imposed on the Statute of Members. Fortunately, there is no need for witchcraft to look back and realize what has happened over the years and what these amendments, adopted 14 years ago and in force 12 years ago, have resulted from the point of view of the possibility of suspension of the Members' mandates. You don't have to, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, look for loopholes to the law that is in place to solve problems that cannot be solved by law. The circumstances that we had recently decided on a Member who was a candidate for the President of the Republic cannot, of course, be resolved by a legal framework. If the law is in force, that is the law that has to be applied. But if the law is absurd, that law has to be changed. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP will follow the initiatives presented here. We will not vote against any of the initiatives, even if we do not vote in favour of the draft law submitted by the NAP in so far as it eventually circumscribes very limited the possibilities for suspension of the mandate, which should not be limited in the way the NAP proposes to be. We will, however, monitor the work that needs to be done in such a way that either the PSD proposal or the CDS proposal may in some way be mocked to find a wording that does not leave in full discretion the possibility of suspension of the mandate. But it is obvious that we have to do this: in 2021, almost 15 years of the debate that was held in 2006 on those amendments to the Statute of Members, it is clear that they introduced limitations and obstacles, as regards the possibility of suspension of the mandate, which must be overcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u87	We have not yet heard your intervention, but I hope that the Socialist Party will look at the data that the management of the elected bodies of the Assembly of the Republic allows easy identification of the number of Members who currently have their mandate suspended so that the Socialist Party itself can make an act of contribution as to the argumentary that it used in 2006.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u88	Mr. Deputies, I appreciate your conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, as in 2006, the main cause of the suspension of the Member's mandate has nothing to do with the relevant reason, has to do with the exercise of government functions. And today, as in 2006, this is still the main element that causes changes in the composition of the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, what was invoked as a pretext for those amendments, 15 years later, is confirmed as a false argument and a false pretext.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u91	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A distracted look on this subject could lead to the assumption that it is a relatively circumscribed issue, almost humanitarian, concerned about the central theme of the prolonged disease of Members. But I would like to draw your attention to the following: the solution that is in force was stabilized in 2006 and entered into force in 2009. After that, in the XII Legislature and in the past legislature, in one and the other, the Left Block, inconsistent with the solution found, presented a proposal for an amendment which read as follows : «that it was considered as a relevant reason for the suspension of the mandate to unappropriate professional activity, the exercise of specific functions in the respective party and important reasons related to the life and interest of the Member. Do not keep on seeking. ” This proposal by the Left Block either in the XII legislature or in the past legislature was rejected. And it was rejected, among others, by the combined votes of the PS, the PSD and the CDS. It is therefore clear that the subject which the Left Block intended to achieve, in particular by giving the possibility of suspending the mandate in the availability of the momentum of Members, was rejected twice successively in two successive legislatures by the PSD and the CDS. But times change, by the way, wills change, and now the PSD wants the CDS to defend what they rejected in the two previous legislatures. And they have come to defend it by seeking that it constitutes as a relevant reason « personal or professional weighting », version of the PSD, or « personal, family, professional or academic nature », in the CDS version. We are therefore in a flagrant contradiction between what these parties thought before, and not long ago, and what they seem to think now. How is this change of position justified? The PSD is very clear in the explanatory statement itself that it presents in its bill. The PSD says in this explanatory statement that Members should be able to freely suspend their mandate. This is the fundamental nature of the question: whether Members should be able to freely suspend their mandate. And what we answer, very clearly and unequivocally, is: no, they cannot freely suspend their mandate. You can't explain why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? For two conjugated reasons. The first is because Members should not be instrumentalized either by their respective parties or by their own leadership of their parliamentary groups, and, as in the past, there was a logic of possible rotativism, a sort of body that did not respect the stability of the mandate of the Members or valued the Members in their own responsibility before the voters. The second reason is that Members should not also suspend their mandate for such invocational personal reasons, since the mandate given by voters to Members is a mandate which must be understood as binding. when understood as binding, the reasons for suspension must be anchored in greater reasons. Or they are reasons that result from the need for the lifting of the mandate for procedural and judicial reasons or are constitutionally derived from the functioning of the sovereign bodies in their balance, and there can be no juxtaposition of political functions, or are derived from some cases of inalienable fundamental rights, such as the right to kinship and those who are very clearly stabilized in the current version. But if you admit the possibility of a Member to invoke a relevant motive of a family or professional nature, that means to say to Parliament: "I was elected a Member, but now, for personal reasons, I am going there and I am coming. Here comes another, transitionally, replace me, which I then may come back». And this for personal reasons, so-called weightier, but it's a completely indeterminate clause.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u93	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u94	And also for equally undetermined professional reasons and consequently such a binding nature of the mandate, the respect of voters, the stability of the parliamentary mandate and the dignity of Parliament are fundamentally affected by this heritageist vision, by this privatist view that you are concerned with. Conservative Members want to print the nature of the mandate. That is why we cannot accept this solution and that is why we will reject it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u95	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u96	Mr. President, Mr. Jorge Lacão, it was your party that created this monumental mess in which the Assembly of the Republic is set up. It was Mr Pedro Alves who, in an opinion given to the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members on the suspension of my mandate, was able to join the 'z' with the 'g' and 'g' with the 'a' and arrived at a solution in which no one believed — because, in fact, the original opinion was in another sense — in order to convince the House of a thing, Mr. The honourable Member speaks of the tall 100 Members behind you, but it is forgotten that democracy is also those who have one or two Members and can be candidates for a municipal chamber or for the Presidency of the Republic or for many other bodies. We have many gifts, we have not yet the gift of ubiquity, which is to be everywhere at the same time. It's very easy to talk when we have 100 Members behind us. If it's not me, there's another tomorrow. If André's not here, she's Joana. She's here to talk. He then accused the honourable Member, speaking of the turnover of the mandates as if the parliamentary groups were instrumentalizing the Members. In fact, it is interesting that Mr Deputy said that "we are here against those groups", referring to the Left Block, "which were rotating mandates, instrumentalizing". But, Mr President, who assures you that those Members have been instrumentalized? Or others, of other benches? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u97	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u98	Who assures you that one Member who gives his place to another, in the midst of the mandate, is being instrumentalized and has not taken up this position freely? It is with this position of principle of the Socialist Party that we cannot compact, that, yes, it is an attack on democracy, and we will follow all the positions of the other parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u99	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u100	Mr President, I don't think I will need to, but I think I have the final time left for the initial intervention. I would like to begin by thanking the speeches, suggestions and criticisms. First of all, I am referring to the intervention of the Left Block to tell Mr Pedro Filipe Soares — who I thought was not, but I have already seen that he is — that it does not hurt so much to approve PSD projects, Mr Soares. It is not necessary, to approve a PSD project, to give that back to saying that we have another lighthouse that nothing has to do with the substance of what is being discussed. Let's be clear. When the request of a Member of this Parliament was discussed within the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, what we said was simple: « you do not have the right to suspend the mandate, but should have the right to suspend the mandate». So, as we are consistent with what we say, on the very day a bill entered which provides for what we thought the law should defend and not what we had to vote at the time considering that the law, objectively, did not allow what Mr André Ventura required. It's simple. And what's simple doesn't have to be complicated. In fact, in the initial intervention I forgot to recognize to the Left Block its insistence on this issue in the last mandates. I meant it and I didn't say it. But it's as simple as this: it's looking at what we have in front of us and, if we think it's wrong, change. I would also like to draw attention to Mr João Oliveira's speech — in which he quoted Mr António Filipe's speech, which could have taken place today, but it was in 2006 — in which he said: 'if the law is absurd, it must be changed'. It's as simple as this. If not, we enter the atrocious conservativeism of the Socialist Party's position. And I'll be right there! The Socialist Party has indicated to debate this matter Mr Jorge Lacão, who I take advantage of to congratulate, who has brought us some passages of parliamentary history, and I am glad that we have someone who can do so. But we are concerned about those Members who don't want to be here long enough to make history. We are concerned about those who want to be Members and not be Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u102	Therefore, the circumstances of objectively intervening by Mr Deputy are no longer symptomatic. However, the Socialist Party says: « We want to appreciate the role of Member, so Members cannot freely suspend their mandates ». Which is extraordinary! We therefore value people, noting them as people, we want to value each of the Members on our own, but on the other hand we want to take away all the freedom to have one life before coming here and another after being here. And the following is symptomatic: Mr President, it is against the stability of mandates. I think there is a confusion on the part of the Socialist Party, to whom I ask you to review the concepts. We are not in uninominal circles. We are in representative plurinominality, which means that the mandates are of the parties led by people who, when they cannot be in office, naturally come out, are serious, and suspend their mandates and the right to their maturity so that others can occupy their place in representative democracy on behalf of that party. This is because we are not in uninominal circles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u103	Mr President, I would like to ask you to conclude because, in the meantime, time has passed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u104	Mr. President, I'm really going to finish. Mr Lacão says that we want a Member to say 'I will come and come and replace myself here' and that is what these proposals want. What the Socialist Party wants a Member to say: "I'm going there and I'm coming, nobody's coming to replace me and there's an empty chair." [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u105	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded point 4 of our agenda and we shall move on to point 5. From this point, then, there is the discussion of Decree-Law No 14 / 2021 of 12 February, which amends the legal regime of entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory [ Parliamentary appraisal No 44 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. In order to intervene, on behalf of the party which presents this same parliamentary assessment, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Golden visas are usually discussed for the worst reasons. In Portugal, in Malta, in Cyprus, in Spain, Greece, this figure has been associated with practices of corruption, trafficking in influences, money laundering and money laundering, but also to the protection of entrepreneurs who, for example in Cambodia, destroy tropical forests, as revealed in Cyprus leaks, or even to entrepreneurs who in Portugal come to pursue, threaten and even kill people to be able to speculate with their houses, as has recently proved the conviction of a court in Porto. The Portuguese Government has little information on the school and remains in this state of denial, but this complaint by the visasgold is not just the Left Block that does it. Also the European Commission, in the risk analysis and exposure of the European Union to activities of money laundering and financing of terrorism, claims that there is a great vulnerability to these activities enhanced by the golden visa scheme. It's not hard to imagine why. Gold visas are an escape door to the law and to the arrest of goods of any crime anywhere in the world, and Portugal is an integral part of this circuit increasingly. That is why the Left Block insists on the end of this scheme, along with the recommendations of other international entities fighting for transparency, human rights and combating fiscal crime and corruption. That is also why we are bringing this issue back to debate, but not just. Gold visas are also a real problem for those who live in our country, because, together with other measures, it has exponentially increased the real estate speculation that makes access to housing difficult for hundreds of thousands of people. How many buildings purchased by 2020 are empty and walled, without fulfilling their social function? How many houses, apartments, land and other buildings have seen their price rise exponentially just so they can come to be selling under this scheme, which sells built for the purchase of Portuguese citizenship? There seems to be anyone who is aware of this reality within the government. The Minister of Territorial Cohesion himself, Ana Abrunhosa, in January 2020, said precisely the following, and I quote: « The golden visas have generated real estate speculation and have led our families, qualified young people, to fail to find a house in Grande Porto and in Grande Lisboa. This is unacceptable». And I say that it is unacceptable and that it is unacceptable also that today, with the crisis we live in, the values of the real estate do not go down, that they do not follow the economic activity and the incomes of those who live in Portugal. It is still extremely difficult to find a home or a commercial space at decent values and this will be an even more dense problem in the economic recovery and, with the maintenance of the golden visas, the real estate will certainly remain the loot. Now, in the State budget for 2020, the commitment to withdraw visasgold in coastal areas and metropolitan areas was entered into by the end of that year. Between the announcement of the end in 2019, in the discussion of the State budget, the new announcement and pressure, throughout the year 2020 and still during the year 2021, what the government has come to guarantee is a high demand for these schemes without ending them, thus enhancing them. Today, not only has the promise been fulfilled, but there is a race of access to the program that makes our country even more vulnerable at a time of crisis. Another fallacy is that these schemes will end in real estate pressure areas. It's fake! From January 2022, the building of services, trade, industrial and tourism can be acquired here in Lisbon through this scheme. It's all the same! It is not ingenuity, it is not ignorance, it is a political option to maintain real estate speculation. The real estate market works as a whole and the government knows it well, but nothing changes. There is a promotion of the race to the sights and this speculation is maintained. Lose the country, lose transparency, lose responsibility and protection for those who live here, at the time of the greatest crisis that the country will be going through. For the Left Block it is incomprehensible that it continues to insist on not solving problems in access to housing, in the lack of economic diversification, in the invitation to illegal activities, in the constant violation of the Housing Bases Act and of national and European anti-corruption laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u107	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u108	I will finish, Mr. President. The Portuguese Government therefore opts to deepen our vulnerabilities. The housing crisis will not be solved by magic and it takes courage to change the state of things, such as financing and speculation. For this reason, it is important to eliminate golden visas, but not only. This measure is also urgent and essential so that equity policies in access to residence and citizenship, price control of real estate and soil and crime control can be effective. We actually have that hypothesis here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u109	You now have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita. Of course, I'm taking advantage of it to greet you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, made this request for parliamentary assessment by the Left Block, and the first surprise is exactly the existence of this request, as the Left Block participated in the political framework that allowed the adoption of the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u111	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u112	In the State budget for 2020, Article 187. the, was assumed the commitment to restrict residence permits for investment to low-density areas, as regards the acquisition of housing real estate, raising the requirements for the other less-used categories of investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u113	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u114	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the year of 2020 was not so long ago, but we still remember, I think, what happened in 2020 and which radically changed the whole forecast framework, making us in the Assembly of the Republic for five years. That is why I will be here, also next week, discussing the set of extraordinary measures that the pandemic situation has created for the country, completely changing its forecast framework. Therefore, listening to all relevant entities, the Government has used this legislative authorization exactly in accordance with the state budget, establishing here a delay which in fact determines that, from the beginning of next year — expecting everyone, certainly, to be past the most critical phase of the pandemic and that we are already in an economic recovery framework — these investment mechanisms can exist only in low-density areas, ending in fact with a pressure on real estate demand in Lisbon, Porto, Algarve, i.e. in areas where the overwhelming majority of these investments were aimed at. The Government agrees that today they are no longer making sense. It is in this context that this debate is being held and this is not a Portuguese invention. Madam Member, let us be strict: the Portuguese programme does not attribute nationality. There are three countries in the European Union which are covered by the report of the European Parliament and of the European Commission and which allow, with systems for the acquisition of furniture, to acquire nationality in these three countries. Ours is a system of acquisition of right of residence, which exists in Portugal as it exists in 19 other European Union states. All cases, in their approval process, are subject to verification, in addition to the competences of the Ministry of Internal Administration. As far as your concerns are concerned, I must say that you are subject to control of the Judicial Police and the Security Information Service ( SIS ) and to information of the SIED ( Strategic Defence Information Service ), i.e. the decision which is taken presupposes, in each case, a right of veto and information of these three entities. This happened with a few dozen cases still last year. That's what we're talking about! I believe that the picture in which we are today is very different, especially in the dynamization of cities such as Lisbon or Porto, in relation to what we had in 2012 and 2013 when this program began. This justifies its concentration in low-density areas. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are talking about EUR 646 million of investment in 2020. That's what we're talking about. And we really want to say that the country doesn't need that? Oh, my God! We are talking about a verification which is done on a case-by-case basis, in which there is rigour and which, for that reason, must be developed. That is why this is not the model of justice in which I believe and do not necessarily believe that the 1182 applicants who had such an authorisation in 2020 are all criminals or responsible for money laundering, tax fraud or other practices that we cannot actually tolerate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u115	Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u116	It is with a sense of responsibility that we have to look at this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u117	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This parliamentary assessment required by the Left Block suggests to me today a more musical liberal minute...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u119	It used to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u120	... because this story of the visosgolds is a « turn the disc and play the same». We are fine-tuned by the same decadence of the Left Block when it says that « the golden visas are thus a source of unacceptable discrimination among citizens», because there are other citizens « to whom the State condemns a huge bureaucratic calvary ». We also believe that all Portuguese should benefit, I quote again, the preamble to the Left Block initiative of the same « speed, simplicity and disburocratisation », three words that are music for the ears of a liberal. The Liberal Initiative does not realise that there is in no way a country and two systems in Portugal a saying that we have used for a long time. Only the Block, instead of defending such speed, simplicity and disburocratisation for all, or the so-called bureaucratic calvary for all. And in this respect, two more artists, PS and PCP, join the chorus. Instead of making it easy for everyone, it is difficult for some. It is only that music does not end here and the agreements on « corruption practices, influence trafficking, speculation and money laundering » are heard again. For this, the Block's solution is to put an end to a regime that has captured more than EUR 5000 million. The Block says: "If the blow section is bad, it ends with the orchestra." Our solution is another: if there are abuses, the system is fine-tuned, the criteria are met and the state is required to monitor without contemplation, because if this does not arrive, the problem can only be the teacher. We truly like the music of freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u121	Sir, your liberal minute is already in one minute and 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u122	Mr. President, the left would prefer us to break the compass, but the Liberal Initiative is not going in that song.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u123	Mr President, the Bureau has been liberal in terms of time management and has therefore given it one minute and 35 seconds. On behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Left Block for the initiative to promote Parliamentary Appreciation to Decree-Law No. 14 / 2021, the decree that came to amend the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from national territory. And, certainly without any novelty, I would like to say that we follow this parliamentary assessment, until, the Greens have always been against this visa mechanism, whether gold, or green, and we have already presented, at the Bureau of this House, a legislative initiative precisely with the aim of ending this instrument very, and almost always, associated with illegal activities. And therefore, in our view, what is required is to eliminate its maintenance of our legal order and not arrangements or shy remedies such as those resulting from Decree-Law No. 14 / 2021. Because, in fact, through this diploma, the government has intended to remove from its application the coastal and metropolitan areas, particularly Lisbon, Porto and Algarve, and still not in all the municipalities, as in the Algarve or even in the Port Metropolitan Area. In addition, the diploma whose appreciation we now make has been withdrawn from the allocation of golden visas to the purchase of buildings destined for housing, but if the acquisition affects what has been most frequent, i.e. to have as a tourist destination or other, which is not housing, the possibility of resorting to visasgold remains. However, by maintaining this possibility, it means that the inherent problems, of course, are maintained, the speculation and risk of the practice of crimes usually associated with the use of golden visas. It is also important to remember that the visasgold mechanism has shown to be a failure in terms of job creation. According to the data, in total, since 2012, approximately 9500 golden visas were granted, but only 17, by the creation of 10 jobs. It is no wonder therefore that the European Parliament's special committee on financial crimes and tax evasion has proposed the abolition of this instrument to its Member States. The Commission considers that the potential economic benefits of visasgold schemes do not compensate for the serious risks of security of money laundering and tax evasion they represent. In addition, the golden visa award scheme is an incapacitated way of creating absolutely condemnable and unacceptable discrimination, establishing first-class citizens, those who have money, and second-class citizens...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u125	Isn't that the opposite? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u126	... those who, without money, are subject to a true martyrdom in order to obtain their residence permit, which is a challenge to a democratic rule of law and, above all, a monumental attack on human rights. To those with money we extend a golden carpet, and to those who do not have, we impose martyrdom to obtain residence permit. No, that's not exactly what we are today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u127	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola : 2015, 2018, 2020 and 2021. There were already four times when the Left Block came to propose the elimination of the golden visas. In the first three, the proposals were rejected. Still, the Left Block insists, persists and resists. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] More than it seems to be against wealth, you should be against poverty, as we are. But the Left Block reveals that, in a profound crisis of the country, with the pandemic, it is insensitive to the impoverishment of our people and our nation. It is revealing a deep insensitivity with this. And the Minister is right, and it is not customary for the PSD to give reason to the Minister, but today he gives: he is quite right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u129	So, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u130	Therefore, the most serious of this, Mr. Members, it is that when the State favours the interior of the country, and there are very few times when this happens, you want to shoot at the heart of the interior of the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u131	Because these regions need investment as oxygen to breathe. You don't understand that, I repeat, you don't understand that! As far as it is concerned, you are against the fact that the State gives a residence permit to a foreigner who invests EUR 400 thousand in the acquisition or reconstruction of a property in areas where there is no real estate pressure. In the interior areas of the country and in the islands, there is real estate depression, there is the opposite! And you don't value that! How can you turn your back on territorial cohesion and two-thirds of the national territory? By taking this, which is very important, there are then national arguments, because as has already been said, it is to turn the record and play the same. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this question of coming here to scare and impress, saying that visas are associated with the proliferation of corruption and economic crime, would be serious only if you demonstrated to know any case — one case! — a foreign investor who has been investigated, better, accused and, if they want, to be more rigorous, convicted. Do you know any of them? Look, I don't think anyone knows.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u132	We made it up! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u133	So that's a daddy that you guys come here to rock. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] Then, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said, and you know - perfectly well - that a foreign investor is subject to very tight scrutiny, to very tight compliance rules, requirements to tell where the money that invests in these funds comes from and cannot even have criminal background. [[Laughs from BE Member Maria Manuel Rola.]] So they may even be expelled from the country. None of that happens. What you are doing here is just this: we are told that a programme that has brought in the last nine years five billion euros — five billion euros! — for the country does not matter at all, it is to send to the trash can. Do you know what state the country is in to do that? Oh, my God! Two or three years ago, from a theoretical point of view, there could still be some defense to your thesis, but now? Oh, my God! When are we nestled asking for money? Do you want to make up for EUR 646 million a year? Do you know what the income of visasgold alone in 2018 was? It was EUR 240 million! Only on administrative charges! Add the IMI (municipal property tax), add the IMT (municipal transaction tax ), add the stamp tax! It is a hen of gold eggs for the Portuguese State. But it's not just for the Portuguese state. It is to 19 Member States of the European Union, 19 that are smart. But, no, in the eyes of the Block, we must be proudly alone. [[PSD Member André Coelho Lima's laughs.]] We must stay out of this competition, poor and barefoot, but brave and Puritan, with these moral principles that you defend, but which really do not happen. Real estate speculation, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you are no longer in the house, because all this is being moved to the interior of the country. Then don't come here to say that Vissgold doesn't create jobs: they create direct jobs and indirect jobs, it's more than proven and proven. Don't insist on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u134	It's 17!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u135	So maybe the only national instrument...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u136	Mr Peixoto, I would like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u137	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is perhaps the only national programme that attracts foreign investment and is the one that you want to eliminate and ban. So please don't blow this program again, worry about moving away and punishing those who violate it. That's what you should do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u138	You now have the floor, for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : Finally, the Left Block wants to review a decree which has been adopted by the Government in the use of a legislative authorization which has been approved by a law of the State Budget which, as I know, has been viable by the Left Block. And you want to revoke what? To revoke the decree-law that has introduced limitations and that will redirect these investments to the interior of the country? Is that it? But that's incongruent, if we want. In order to repeal the visasgold regime or residence permits and to that end appeals to a European Parliament resolution, but fails to take a fundamental look: this European Parliament resolution aims at citizenship programmes for investments introduced in three Member States — Cyprus, Malta and Bulgaria — which do not have the requirement of effective residence for those who will obtain citizenship. This is the key point, the lack of effective residence for obtaining citizenship which the European Parliament and the European Commission criticise. Then there's something you need to pay attention to. These schemes are not confused with those of residence authorisations which are adopted, as has already been said, by 20 Member States. The Left Block makes a series of accusations, such as corruption, and money laundering, and then also does not hesitate to make statements in the very typical populist style of the extreme-right—we, the good, the others, the evil—when it says that foreigners who have seen gold have much easier access to a residence permit, unlike all others, who have to suffer the calvary of the SEF (Foreign Service and Borders) and that does not correspond to the truth. I confess that, in reading this requirement of the Left Block, three things have struck me with the spirit: first, the lightness with which the Block assumes its status as "the inquisitor of the kingdom" and makes accusations without justification; secondly, the lightness with which it adheres to mere perceptions or inversions which, in essence, are the cement of prejudice and populism; and thirdly, the great incongruence. As for the allegations of corruption, the truth is that it would be very useful, if the Left Block, and has already been requested here, would present a single proof, a single fact that would allow, confirm that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u140	Ask Dr. Ana Gomes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u141	that reminds me, there was only one process related as corruption and with visas gold, which ended with an absolution due to lack of foundation. As for perceptions, they are only the result of ignorance. If not, we see: no residence permit for investment can be granted without the person concerned having entered Portugal legally, without the presence of him on the territory, without a clean criminal record, without being subjected to, not one, but two, security checks, and without his investment by bank transfer—and, as we know, banks are subject to very demanding provisions on money laundering. On the other hand, it is also not true that the fewer than 1200 immigrants who obtained a residence permit for investment in 2019 have the easier life than the more than 129 000 immigrants who, in that same year, obtained a residence permit for another reason. And if we analyze the refusal rate or the waiting time for an agenda, we easily verify that what the Left Block says has no adherence to reality. Moreover, immigrants who reside in Portugal with another residence permit even today have a much easier life. For example, you can renew your residence permit online, which is forbidden to other immigrants who have the so-called golden visa. Then, the incongruence, to end, Mr President : they diabolize the 1100 immigrants who obtained a golden visa in 2020 which contributed to the GDP (gross domestic product) of our country, many resided in Portugal, but still recently defended with their teeth a legal regime that only in 2020 allowed Portuguese nationality to be given more than 20 000 people, who had little money to invest in a Portuguese passport, without ever having lived here without speaking a word of Portuguese without ever having even visited our country. So who has this golden passport, the Left Block defends with nails and teeth, as you did a long time ago. Can this regime be abused and be an instrument of criminal election, money laundering? Of course, it may, even more so that the holders of this golden passport will not even be able to see their status cancelled or be expelled from this country, if they come here, unlike a holder of a golden visa. That is why there is great lightness here, incongruence and, in the background, a huge populism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u142	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by registering that this issue generates a certain consensus of common sense in relation to it. And this consensus of common sense comes from something very obvious, which is the fact that the visasgold regime does not constitute a regime of nationality. The visasgold scheme is a residence authorisation scheme based on investment. It was created for a very simple thing: attracting foreign investment to Portugal. That is the basis for the regime and that is the reason for its existence. From that point of view, what we can say is that it is a success. The visasgolds have already brought Portugal, let us be clear, more than EUR 5000 million. It is completely false, Mrs Deputy, the argument that this does not create direct employment. But does the honourable Member think the houses are made?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u144	Did anyone buy houses to do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u145	Do you think that if the investment is real estate, no one has invested in building the houses? Are there any construction companies? Are there no workers, immigrants or not, who built these houses? Are there any companies to sell these houses? Is all this not economic in Portugal? Clearly it is, sir! Its argument is completely absurd and reveals a sanha, an obsession of the Left Block against anything that can create or bring wealth to our country. That's the point. If this money does not come to Portugal, it goes to the other 18 countries that also have golden visa regimes, as is evident, and some even attribute nationality, unlike us. Some are more favorable and others less. It's a sanha, sir! Mrs Deputy, just for your tranquility, I will read the title of a reference magazine—pass the propaganda—the Vision: « The stories of those who left the American dream ’ behind and moved to Portugal, because of the quality of life, of the real estate investment, of the wines or just to escape Trump». It should even be something that sensitizes you: "or just to run away from Trump!" These Americans all came to Portugal — designers, consultants, startup creators, art men, everything — and, of course, they did not all come for the same reason, as it is evident, but they came because they saw a good opportunity in our country, and they came to bring wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u146	Portugal is a paradise!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u147	What are you guys doing? You are prejudiced against these people, saying that by coming to Portugal they are automatically bandits, traffickers, corrupt, and out there. Mrs. Member, if there's anything leftist block knows it's real estate speculation. In Lisbon, then, they are absolute specialists! [[Rice from PSD Members André Coelho Lima and Carlos Peixoto.]] Mrs. Member, do you know what I'm telling you? What is very curious, too, is that the party that proposes this prejudice against those who bring wealth to our country—that it be relocated inside, all right! — is the same party that proposed the law that immigrants cannot be expelled from Portugal who, having entered legally or illegally, have committed crimes such as murder, violent theft or drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u148	Mr Telmo Correia, please conclude if you do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u149	That is, if you don't bring anything to the country, if you come with one hand ahead and another back and commit a crime, a murder, a robbery, whatever it is, according to the Block, can't be touched, you can't be expelled, but if you want to bring money, you can't anymore. These are rich, they have to be persecuted and they cannot even enter our country. It is a sanha, it is an obsession and it is an absolute mistake, as has been demonstrated here, because most European countries do not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u150	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The position of the CFP on visasgold has long been known, in fact, from the very beginning, since the first debates in which this possibility was introduced into the law of foreigners. Therefore, in line with its usual position, the CFP will support proposals aimed at eliminating this possibility. It seems to us that this debate is, in some way, sent, at least from our point of view, about how we put it. There are arguments that are conjectural and fallacious. As for the idea of saying 'good, but this was in the Budget and you supported the Budget', of course we could put the question to the contrary. That is a little the argument on the right, which is to turn to us and say "Ah, but this is in the Budget and you have supported it." in this case, we can say on the contrary: « Well, you have not supported the Budget with such a good standard as this ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u152	Despite a standard as good as this one! [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u153	Therefore, this argument is not very valid. The economic argument does not lead us on a long way either. In other words, it is not worth saying « Good, but most countries have seen gold and we are crazy if we do not have it». This is not an argument, because otherwise we could say that there are many tax havens and so we are crazy if we don't have them. The question is not an economic one, because this discussion even leads us to say « Economically, it will be a good deal for the country». Of course I do! We do not ignore the effects on real estate speculation, but we do not, of course, ignore the fact that civil construction has a very significant impact on the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u154	Explain it next door!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u155	So we're not going that way. For us, the question is that visasgold, besides that it is evidence that those various criteria...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u156	Mr Telmo Correia, see if you want me to talk about submarines!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u157	Don't drown!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, may I continue? I realized that, even with a mask, they don't go far away. They can be less perceptible! I said it is evidence that those various criteria for acquiring visasgold, such as job creation, are the least important because practically there has no impact. What has the most impact are people who have money to invest in real estate. The question is that there is a duality of criteria for immigration policy and residence authorisation. There is no nationality here, and yet we were not those who beat us, with nails and teeth, so that we could buy Portuguese nationality by other criteria, but we also did not think that we should be able to buy residence permits. In other words, we do not at least like a situation in which the buildings are being made by immigrants who are in an illegal situation because they cannot have access to a residence permit to work legally in Portugal, but they do the houses. And then someone who has money to buy the property already has residence permit for having money and the other one is illegal because he has no money. This mercantilization of the residence permit in Portugal is that we contest and that is what makes us think that this allocation of visasgold means a clear distortion in relation to what must be the immigration policy we defend for our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u160	The difficulty that the citizen who wants to come to work for Portugal may have to obtain his or her residence permit faced with... Mrs Urban Constance de Sousa, we have immense testimony to the difficulties that people have in dealing with the most elementary issue in the Foreign and Border Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u161	You've got to fix that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u162	... situation now greatly aggravated with the confinement and pandemic. Every day we receive e-mails from people who have schedules here for more than a year to deal with an elementary subject with the Foreign and Border Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u163	Mr António Filipe, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u164	Finally, Mr President, with one sentence: confronting these difficulties with the facilities of those who can obtain a golden visa, quoting a programme that is very fashionable, is "to enjoy with those who work". [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u165	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u166	Mr President: This proposal from the Left Block is politically strange and legally aberrant. It is politically strange because it calls for the repeal of a regime which has helped them to approve. So it is politically, at least, very strange. But it is legally wrong when part of the assumption that there is a acquisition of nationality. The resolution of the European Union and the European Committee refers to the countries where nationality is acquired, which is not the case with the Portuguese regime. Mrs. Members could come here today, for example, propose new measures to combat money laundering, such as declarative obligations, cross-banking, anticipation of recapitulation movements. None of this has been done! What the Left Block proposes is a pure and simple revocation of the legal system, because it is the easiest, the fastest, and that is what gives the most votes, thus saying otherwise, without wanting to do anything at all. The honourable Member said that this is buying Portuguese citizenship and nationality, but I heard the Left Block months ago saying that anyone should obtain Portuguese nationality. So, the guy who comes by train and who, by chance, stops at the station of Santa Apolónia should have Portuguese nationality! Or anyone who gets stuck here on a boat and has a phone in his hand should also have Portuguese nationality! And now Mrs. Deputy comes to say that you're buying Portuguese nationality? Oh, my God! This is very serious! It can only be a joke to say that you are buying Portuguese nationality!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u167	Look at the statement of interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u168	Mr. André Ventura, please conclude if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u169	I shall conclude by saying, Mr President, if I may, that the last report says that Portugal has dropped seven points in the external investment attraction ranking. We are today 23. the, of 74 countries, in the attraction of international investment. What about inside investment? That's what's going to mark the Left Block in the next few years, since it's the one who made the little investment that could still get into the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u170	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defence of visasgold is one of the themes in which PS, PSD, CDS, the Liberal Initiative and, it is frightening, even the Arrival converge into a large and unusual alliance and do - by talking about the attraction of foreign investment and the development of the Portuguese economy. For these parties there are only good things, but more fallacious was impossible. Let's get to the facts. Are these parties telling us that Vissgolds generate a lot of jobs? Don't! In nine years only 17 visasgolds were granted for job creation, which, according to the SEF, resulted in a little more than 200 jobs. It is noted that only 0, 19 % of the more than 9000 gold visas granted generated employment and this whole job together would only create an SME (small and medium-sized company ). It does not see only who does not want that the alleged millions of investments of visasgold did not contribute to the development of the country and its productive economy. But then what did they serve for? Allied with other factors, they served to put the country under a bubble in the housing market, for example in Lisbon, Porto and Algarve, which pushed the citizens most vulnerable to the outskirts and made the right of young people to housing a dream difficult to achieve. More than 85 % of the gold visas granted in these nine years have been used to acquire buildings for more than €500 000, which has created a speculative dynamics in the real estate market that has not caused the health crisis to disappear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u172	It used to be wonderful!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u173	The European Parliament, the European Commission, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the European Economic and Social Committee have been extremely critical to the golden visas, stressing that the potential economic benefits of this instrument do not compensate for the risks of corruption, money laundering, tax evasion and security involved. And don't come and tell us about the supposed tight controls that exist! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, according to the SEF, between 2012 and 2019 only 414 golden visas were refused, which means that, in every 100 golden visa applications, 96 were accepted. [[PS Deputy Protests Urban Constance of Sousa.]] They think this is evidence of some control, when we know that in the list of applicants to whom gold has been given these years are, for example, high figures of the cleptocratic regime of José Eduardo dos Santos or citizens of the island of St. Kitts and Nevis, who, for those who don't know, is a Caribbean island known for being a tax haven that sells passports to those who have money to pay them? Does anyone believe that these people would pass the path of minimally strict control, that there is no one in our country and that you do not want it to exist? Let us be clear: the beneficiaries of the golden visas do not want to know anything about our country; they want to have unrestricted access to the Schengen area, to have travel facilities for more than 100 countries and, of course, in some cases, to flee to justice, to escape taxes or even to wash a few million obtained in doubt. If PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal Initiative and Arrival do not see it is because they don't want it, as it is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u174	You see everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u175	For this reason, in this debate, the NAP presents for the third time in this Parliament two very clear proposals. On the one hand, we propose the revocation of the programme of golden visas, whose risks are not avoided by their relocation to the inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u176	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u177	I will finish, Mr. President. On the other hand, we want to strengthen the transparency of this mechanism and to ensure a study on the impact of visasgolds in these nine years of operation, which is sensible, since in 2019 the Government has recognized that such a study has never been done, which proves that the entire argumentary of the visasgold defenders is not substantiated and does not pass from a real wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u178	We are now entering the conclusion of this debate. To speak on behalf of the requesting party, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u179	Mr President: We are talking about an amendment which was authorized in the State budget for 2020 and I believe that the Minister knows that budget and the decree we are talking about. This budget restricts to the territory of the CIM ( intermunicipal communities ), the interior and autonomous regions of Madeira and the Azores the investments provided for in points ( iii ), which are real property of more than €500 000, and iv ), which are assets for rehabilitation or in areas of urban rehabilitation. Now, what the government has done with this decree is to allow the golden visas to remain in the metropolitan areas that are not only the small density areas. It is because, by limiting the scope of this legislation, by withdrawing it to apply only the non-residential building, what Mr. Minister and his Government are saying is that what they thought in 2019 about real estate speculation and the influence of gold visas on real estate speculation does not occur today and does not occur throughout the building, but only in the housing building. And we know that's not true. This cannot be ignorance, nor lack of knowledge of the State budget for 2020, nor of the decree-law that is on the table; it is pure manipulation; it is simply a story that does not correspond to what was approved in the State budget for 2020, nor to what Mr. Minister said here this afternoon. The golden visas will continue, yes, in the Metropolitan Area of Porto and in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, in all the built that is not housing. And this also does not value the interior at all, as was mentioned here this afternoon. This issue is going on as a great victory in combating real estate speculation. But I recall that even Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, in the State Budget for 2020, understood that the Socialist Party — and this also happened in the context of this amendment made by the Socialist Party — should respond to real estate speculation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u180	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u181	Now, the answer that the Government gave, a year ago, and to enter into force two years ago, is a zero round, a round nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u182	To close the debate, Mr Minister for Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is proud of Portugal, which has been a global reference for the way in which, in times of pandemic, it has recognized the rights of migrants in an outstanding situation. This was mentioned by Cardinal Tolentino de Mendonça to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Portugal is proud to be a cosmopolitan society which in 2020 in a pandemic context raised to 660 000 foreign citizens living in Portugal and granted more than 120 000 residence permits. It was this cosmopolitan country that allowed the automatic renewal of residence permits to more than 10,000 foreign students or to 70,000 foreign citizens who were already living here. It is this cosmopolitan, inclusive country, open to the world and tolerant that we want. Therefore, he hoped that the Left Block would welcome the government's action in the face of what is concerned: 1100 of these 120 000 residence authorisations committed the « crime» to invest more than €400,000 in the purchase of real estate in Portugal, and the Government acknowledged that, in the face of market developments, it should address this investment today, not for Great Lisbon, not for Grande Porto, not for the Algarve, but for Vinhais, for Penamacor, for Alentejo, for Ribatejo, i.e. for inter-municipal communities, in conjunction with a territorial cohesion policy leading to this investment being redirected to these areas. It is this plural country that needs everyone — immigrants who in Portugal seek freedom and immigrants who in Portugal seek the right to work — but who do not consider it a crime to want to invest in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u184	We will move on to the next item on the agenda, which is part of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1032 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government diversify the acquisition of vaccines against COVID-19 and 1072 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government defend the lifting of vaccine patents against COVID-19, making them public and universal. To present the CFP initiative, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Vaccines are a public good and must be at the service of humanity. These are the premises that should guide the government's decision and intervention, giving priority to the life and not the profit of multinational pharmaceuticals. At the initiative of the CFP, the Assembly of the Republic today debates a set of solutions that, to be approved and implemented, will allow the country to accelerate vaccination, protecting the health of citizens and enabling the resumption of normal economic, social, cultural and sporting activities, restoring life to the entire population. The PCP proposal is based on three essential axes: diversifying the purchase of vaccines, creating vaccine production capacity in Portugal and suspending patents as a way to ensure the vaccination of Portuguese. First of all, the CFP proposes that, within the framework of its sovereign option, the Government undertake efforts to diversify the purchase of vaccines from countries and/or pharmaceutical companies that have developed vaccines recognized by the World Health Organization, and that the procedure with a view to marketing authorisation be developed by Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ). Due to successive delays and non-compliance in the supply of previously agreed vaccines, the country received less than 2 million vaccines in the first quarter and, in the second quarter, of the 11, 2 million vaccines initially contracted, only about 9 million vaccines should arrive, and this if there are no more breaches. Data by 4 April show that only 13 % of the Portuguese population has the first dose of the vaccine and that 6 % has the full vaccination. Lack of vaccines is an obstacle to the implementation of the Vaccination Plan against COVID-19, particularly in the protection of risk groups and in the protection of workers from essential areas, leading to the discussion of priorities within vaccination priorities, when what is really necessary is that vaccination progress generally. Instead of worrying about finding solutions to acquire the necessary doses to vaccinate the population as soon as possible, the Portuguese Government has justified its inaction with the idea of « not betraying the European Union ». Meanwhile, some countries in the European Union have already acquired or are preparing to acquire vaccines outside the agreements with the European Commission. Secondly, the CFP proposes that the Government safeguard our sovereignty and reduce external dependence, implementing the investment necessary for the production of vaccines in Portugal and supporting research in the area of medicine in public research units and centers, in collaboration with higher education institutions and the National Laboratory of Medicine. If it is confirmed that the vaccine protects for a period of about six months, it will be necessary to have the capacity to produce vaccines in the future, and this is therefore a strategic investment. We cannot stay by identifying what it is possible to do in some stages of the process of producing vaccines, we need to go further and create vaccine production capacity at all stages of the process. Finally, the CFP proposes that the Government intervene to suspend the validity of the vaccine patents against COVID-19, ensuring the sharing of knowledge and the increase in the production of vaccines. No one understands that the vaccines have been developed with a strong public investment and that the scientific and technological result of this investment is appropriate for the regulation of private profit. No one understands that there are factories, in particular in Europe, with vaccine production capacity and that they are not producing the vaccine, because patent companies refuse to share information. Just as no one understands that, despite the calls of the World Health Organization for the sharing of technology, with a view to increasing the production and acceleration of vaccination, the World Trade Organization has rejected the lifting of vaccine patents, proposed by India and South Africa, with the support of more than 110 countries. It is unacceptable that the United States of America and the European Union, including Portugal, have opposed the release of patents, putting themselves alongside the interests of multinational companies to the detriment of the interests of the peoples. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The business that multinational pharmaceuticals intend to do with vaccines, in a global emergency situation due to the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, reveals the worst of the capitalist system. It is an immoral and inhuman business, when what is at stake is the well-being of people and their own life. And compacting with this, not facing multinationals, is not protecting the life and health of populations. Now that the solution of vaccination to combat the pandemic — widely supported by specialists — exists, it is unacceptable that we are faced with the shortage of vaccines. This is the central problem that is preventing the rapid vaccination of the population. More and more voices converge with the CFP proposals. Personalities of various quadrants and different entities argue that the vaccine should be considered as a public good and that it should therefore not be subject to restrictive economic rules, but rather available to respond to a problem affecting humanity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u186	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u187	I will finish, Mr. President. There must be courage and political will to adopt solutions that are feasible and necessary to deduce the epidemic! It is necessary to give priority to people's lives and health! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u188	To present the initiative of BE, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year and one month after the beginning of the pandemic, the world records 134 million people infected by the new coronary virus and nearly 3 million deaths. In Portugal 825 000 people are infected and 17 000 deaths are to be regretted. This is the dimension of the global threat we face. And we know that defeating a threat of this dimension depends on the vaccine. But it depends on something even more important, which is access to the vaccine, and that access is not happening. What's happened so far? Science contributed to its knowledge, and in record time discovered a vaccine for the new disease. The public money financed research and subsidized up to private production, however, a Europe hostage to pharmaceuticals, which negotiated contracts in the most absolute secrecy and was unable to act in the face of the continuous and repeated non-compliance of pharmaceuticals, and a patent system that prevents the sharing of information and technology and the massification of production all this is preventing the response to the pandemic, all this is preventing people from having access to what is our pandemic escape, which is the vaccine. Let us look at the concrete example of Portugal. By the end of March we should have received 4, 4 million doses and received half of that. By the end of the first quarter, we could have vaccinated, with full vaccination, that is, with two doses, more than 2 million people in our country. We are left for the 500 000 people vaccinated with two doses. Why did this happen? Because the pharmacists did not deliver what they had committed to, because production technology was not shared and because Europe and the government did nothing before the repeated failure to comply with the pharmaceuticals. And what happens in Portugal happens in the overwhelming majority of countries, especially in the poorest countries of the world, in the southern hemisphere, in a much more dramatic way, not many of them having any access to any vaccine. Let us hear, for example, Antonio Guterres and the United Nations, who have urged that vaccines be a common good, or hear the Secretary-General of the World Health Organization ( WHO ), who has called for the sharing of technology and information, so that everyone can have access to the vaccine. These are important voices that call for a pandemic business not to be done. However, what we see is that the $15 billion that Pfizer has already said she is hoping to pick up the vaccine is now talking higher than humanity and the wisdom of António Guterres, the United Nations and the World Health Organization. In the full pandemic, in a situation of public health urgency, there should be no market games. They say several and several subscribers, who today published a public appeal in Portugal for vaccines to be a common good — and I quote: « The vaccines, an indispensable instrument in the global fight against pandemics, have become a good of public interest. As such, they cannot be subject to the market laws of supply and demand’. And you're right, you don't have to be subject to these rules. We don't have to be vaccinating to the cash register. We must not be in this deprivation of the one who is the instrument that will lead us out of the pandemic. It is possible to raise patents. There is European legislation that allows for patents to be invalid in a disaster situation such as that in which we are living and that Member States and the European Union can force production to be made in all units capable of making such production. And there are units capable of making this production that are not being taken advantage of. So there is a bigger question of reason and there is a possibility that we really do more than we are doing. What the Left Block proposes, with this initiative, is that the Assembly of the Republic and the Government take the firm stand to say: "In the pandemic, we choose the health of our populations; in the full pandemic we choose to protect our population; in the full pandemic, we choose the right to health". In full pandemic, patents must be lifted and the vaccine must be a public good. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u190	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying that we obviously share the starting point of these draft resolutions, even because it is factual that Europe, and Portugal in particular, has an unacceptable shortage of vaccines, which has an impact on public health and economic recovery. And here the sharing of our vision ceases. For us, CDS-PP, the solution is exactly more Europe, a more muscular Europe, and Portugal, in the Presidency of the European Union, has a clear role in ensuring that this scenario changes. Therefore, we cannot, of course, share neither the assumptions nor the solutions presented here by the PCP and the Block. They say — and they have said right now — that the vaccines have essentially been developed on the basis of public funding. That's not true. Pfizer vaccines, for example, had 13 % financing of public funds and AstraZeneca vaccines had 20 % financing of public funds. The European Union has therefore paid a minority percentage, which is expected to have reflected in the negotiation of price and supply conditions and, if it did not, that is exactly where the negotiation should affect and can be improved, but it is not true that vaccines are therefore a public good. If there had been no private investment, you would probably not have had this discussion here, because, first of all, there would have been no vaccines. They say you need to diversify the purchase of vaccines. That's right, but the point they want to get to is Sputnik V. I get it. France, Germany and Italy have also given a political signal of their availability for a purchase of this vaccine, conditional on the approval of EMA (European Medicines Agency ). For the PCP, it is evident that the approval of EMA is irrelevant, only that of Infarmed, which, I recall, was still recently part of our discussions precisely because it took years to approve the therapy of innovative drugs. But it seems that this is no longer a problem and that, of course, any other vaccine not approved by EMA would be agilely approved by Infarmed. And they also forget, or do not want to believe, that, in reality, a small country, like Portugal, without great financial resources, faced with buyers such as Italy, France and Germany, would not be able to line up to buy large quantities at reasonable prices. If these giants decide to make these purchases, it is always a loss not to belong to a joint purchase of the European Union. We will therefore always be better at these conditions. Finally, they defend patents and allow production in Portugal, ignoring the cost in the medium term that will lead to no R & D ( Research and Development) industry investing in Europe. And, as is said in future pandemics, at that time they will certainly complain about the fact that there is no industry producing medicines in Europe. They also ignore that lifting patents does not solve the problem of production. You know that the raw materials needed to produce many of these vaccines originate in 19 different countries; that the two-handed factories, capable of production safety, are counted by the fingers of two hands around the world,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u192	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u193	I will finish, Mr. President. The world’s factories, capable of producing these vaccines, are by the fingers of two hands capable of producing production safety. And you do not know that in Portugal there is today no industry, without investment, capable of producing. Mr President, I conclude by humbly making the following suggestion to the CFP: if you are so committed to putting an end to this capitalist process that is so destructive of what is public health, I suggest that you start by raising the patent of Sputnik V — with certainty that you will have diligence to do so — and then directly transposing production and production authorisation to Portugal, assuming the burden of all clinical assessments and producing it in a military laboratory, which will certainly be available to produce on a large scale. In fact, I don't even understand why this is not your proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u194	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Gouveia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all know from time to time, vaccination has proved to be the most effective and secure means of combating and eradicating infectious diseases and, to this end, it will be important to highlight and welcome the enormous effort of convergence verified in the global scientific community, this decisive and explanatory factor that has been possible, within a period never previously achieved, to create and start the production of vaccines against COVID-19. Here arrived, the universal challenge that followed, only possible to win through a supranational, concerted and solidarity strategy, became very clear: trying to vaccinate everyone in the shortest possible time as the only way to ensure the protection of the health of all citizens. Of course, the imperative realization of this universal objective will depend on two fundamental pillars: on the one hand, which can maximize the production and availability of vaccines and on the other hand, which achieves a very effective implementation of appropriate and responsible vaccination plans. It was exactly in this context of prevailing unanimity, either with the universal challenge to be overcome, or with the fundamental pillars to its realization, which were presented these two draft resolutions now under consideration. Draft resolutions tabled by the Assembly of the Republic on proposals for recommendations to the Government which, at the substantive level, are converging. Therefore, with regard to public knowledge, it appears to us that it will be important to note that to date contracts have been concluded with six vaccine producers, four of whom have already obtained approval from the European Medicines Agency, EMA, which should ensure a portfolio close to 3 billion doses of various and different vaccines for the European Union, being more than 35 million doses for Portugal, and which Portugal remains available to purchase any other vaccines for the fight against this pandemic, provided that of course it is properly assessed by the EMA as regards its quality, safety and efficacy. It will also be important to point out that with regard to the production of vaccines in Portugal, the Government has already reaffirmed the total availability of the Portuguese industry to collaborate in the effort to combat the pandemic and that, with regard to the defence of the lifting of vaccine patents, the Government has strict awareness of its intervention radius within the applicable legality. It should also be noted that the Portuguese Government has defended, both within the European Union and with the World Health Organization, that vaccines are a public good, universal access, and that their production should therefore be diversified and their distribution equitable in all countries. In short, we consider that we are assessing proposals for recommendations to the Government which, in our view, generally ratify the strategy which, within the limits possible, has been developed. This, of course, despite the clear and natural divergences of an operational nature, and we sincerely did not see any concrete, non-generic, feasible recommendation within the scope of the applicable legality, which could enhance the current strategy. Although paraphrasing someone, allow us a final recommendation: no one is safe until we are all safe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u196	Mr António Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss two draft resolutions with recommendations to the Government on vaccination against COVID-19. A draft resolution recommends diversification in the acquisition of vaccines against COVID-19 and suspension of the validity of their patents. The other defends the lifting of vaccine patents against COVID-19. At the time when Parliament is called upon to appreciate these two initiatives, it is clear how far the challenges facing our country in terms of vaccination are being met. In fact, over three months since the initiation of the vaccination process against COVID-19, only about 1, 3 million Portuguese received the first dose, to which 600 000 have already been added with the second dose. This means that up to now 85 % of our population has not yet received any vaccine dose and only 7% is fully vaccinated. This is a situation which may compromise the Government's promise that the country would reach a vaccination rate of 70 % by the beginning of September, i.e. by five months. Worse, it is a worrying result, which threatens public health and questions the return to social normality and the necessary resumption of economic activity, realities so badly affected in our country over the past year. It is true that the most vulnerable population of the virus, in terms of mortality, i.e. people aged 80 or over, has already been vaccinated in its vast majority, having recently been the new coordinator of the promised vaccination task force even the full vaccination of this group until the next 11th of April. Let us hope that this objective will indeed be achieved, in the interests of the protection of the life and health of our elderly. But it is also necessary to remember that, a few days ago, the government promised to start vaccination, starting in the second half of this month at a rate of 100 000 people per day, even reaching 150 000. In view of these promises, which must be guaranteed – because Portuguese demand so much – there are concerns about the successive delays in the distribution of vaccines, which are evident from the fact that Portugal has so far received about 2, 3 million doses of vaccines, just over half of the 4, 4 million initially planned for the first quarter. in this context, it is not understood that the Government has not acquired all the vaccines against the VOCID-19 it was entitled to, as was the case of about 800 000 doses of modern vaccines that were destined for our country. If what we just said recognises that the low rate of vaccination against COVID-19 is a real problem in our country, what we now need to clarify is whether these recommendations are a good answer to this problem or, on the contrary, not just a false solution. The apparent objective is this, as it could not fail to be when temptation is great and being popular is easy: to promise, as promised, the protection of the population, all and all! But the real objective most seems to be to move Portugal away from the much-needed European consensus, thus weakening and hindering a common position of the European Union, pointing to the captivating idea that more lives will be saved if each country is alone— proudly alone, therefore—and to forget the political, economic and social union in which we want to be and where we are going to see ourselves as a whole. And there is no doubt here, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the PSD, only through a common approach to the European Union, only with a genuine union of efforts can we ensure sufficient supply and facilitate the provision of vaccines against COVID-19. For the PSD, it is up to the Government to assume its responsibilities without hesitation in the Presidency of the European Union, mobilising institutions and states, in order to strengthen the provision of vaccines, to ensure the fulfilment of contracts by pharmacists and, no doubt, to speed up the approval procedures of other vaccines which are proving safe. Our duty of hope is that, in the middle of last winter, we may have learned that there is in each of us and in all of us a summer to win. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u198	For an intervention by the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in those who were the prior agreements between the European Union and multinational pharmaceutical companies a substantial public financial investment was made in research for the early and rapid development and production of vaccines in the fight against COVID-19. As public funding, it is incomprehensible that, for example, data from prior acquisition agreements ( APA ) and contracts with these companies are not available. It is incomprehensible why it did not prevent the European Commission from denouncing the agreements and thus, in the event of a delay or failure to comply, to ensure the use of world markets. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to the Member States to exercise their full influence to ensure that contractual conditions are met, and Portugal should not resign from doing so. Access by all persons to vaccination should guide the Government's performance, in addition to being reiterated by the United Nations itself. Precisely in line with the guidance of health experts and the need for a rapid and extended vaccination process to the whole population, I would like to take advantage of to clarify what is the NAP's position on the subject which is now brought to this debate and which I am going to explain. Vaccines to combat COVID-19, as well as all pharmacological responses in this fight and to future pandemics, should be considered universally accessible public goods. Where public funding results, knowledge resulting from scientific research and access to agreements with these companies should be shared. Those who are the current patents for the production of the vaccine against COVID-19 must be free, allowing it to be produced by more countries and to make more people available. Government investment in research and the production of responses to this pandemic and potential pandemics should be made, reducing the country's external dependence on this area which is, of course, strategic. in this context, the Government should encourage scientific research using alternative models for the use of animals. The Portuguese State should influence the European Commission to invest in preventive health and in studies to combat the risk of such pandemics, thus contributing to the international influence of changes in risk practices, such as the predation of ecosystems, which call into question the development of zoonoses and which endanger public health. In the event of diversification of the purchase of vaccines outside the European area, it is obviously necessary to ensure the validation of efficacy and safety by the European Medicines Agency. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Hope, the light at the bottom of the tunnel that allowed us to believe that it would be possible to overcome this difficult period that lives in Portugal and around the world, as a result of the spread of the COVID-19, came in the form of a vaccine. The scientific community responded to the challenge, seeking, in a remarkable effort, a solution, and several vaccines were found against COVID-19, which are already being applied in several countries. However, and despite the serious consequences on public health, there are reasons to be worried about how the European Union is managing the process of the purchase and distribution of vaccines. The solidarity of the Union has faded and the rich countries act selfishly. The European Union has not only paid for the production of vaccines, but has already paid with the taxpayers' money, so the people who need them, as well as their money, financed their research, testing, risk insurance, if the research is not successful. He released the laboratories from any responsibility, if there were undesirable effects of the vaccines, and bought them before they existed. But "discovery" is the exclusive part of pharmaceuticals, which means that only they can produce them and, of course, at the pace that best fits into their business strategies. And to better defend the poor pharmaceuticals from unwanted eyes, until contracts were kept secret and only at great cost do they know some minor elements. As for European citizens who have financed the ‘discovery’, they remain dependent on the commercial interests of laboratories. Therefore, we have already said this, it is time for the Portuguese Government to do one of two things, or even both: take its role in the Presidency of the European Union, seeking to extend the supply of vaccines, facing the powerful interests of pharmaceuticals, demanding them to comply with contracts, and / or ensuring, nationally, the purchase of more vaccines to other suppliers. If one does not understand why there are so many exceptional measures justified by the extraordinary situation we are experiencing, but for what is essential it is necessary to follow all the rules, all the steps, to respect all the orders coming from Brussels. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the essentials of vaccines that can allow restrictive measures to be eased and more forcefully open up economic activities, but more importantly, vaccines that can save lives. Therefore, we will follow the projects that recommend that the Government take steps to ensure that the purchase of vaccines is faster, particularly through the purchase of other suppliers and other countries, that it is possible to comply with the vaccination plan and that the light at the bottom of the tunnel eventually turns into the solution so expected that science can respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u202	To close the debate, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the close of this debate, we want to add the following: I believe that we all know the diagnosis and situation of the country. The question is what are the solutions for our population to be vaccinated as quickly as possible, even as it is recommended by a group of specialists, identifying vaccination as the solution to combat the epidemic and to protect the health of the population. And when we talk about concrete solutions, what we saw by PS, PSD and CDS is that they bring the same recipe that has already shown that it does not treat the disease we are currently facing. The solution is not to insist on an answer that the European Union did not have the ability to give. And he had no capacity, because he submitted himself to the interests of large companies and did not put on the table the protection of the health of the populations. Agreements were made between multinational companies and the European Commission, Leonine agreements, which nobody knows, which are confidential, in which there was indeed a large payment of public money for the development of the vaccine, in which there was the payment of the vaccine itself, and in the face of non-compliance there are no penalties and penalties. But is that what will defend the health of the people? Is this intervention that we have seen, weeks after weeks, delays and non-compliances and for the following months on the table? It can't be, we can't be tied up. That was the solution the PCP wanted here to bring. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, it is regrettable that you have spoken here, because ignorance in a debate of this nature is, in fact, profound and serious...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u204	Oh, I agree with that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u205	When more than 180 vaccines are being developed worldwide, when there is a set of vaccines already approved...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u206	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u207	I will now finish, Mr President. The questions that we have raised are at the scientific level and, of course, it is up to technicians and specialists to define and make this decision. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa brings here political criteria that have consequences for the implementation of a plan that is fundamental to protecting the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u209	Mr President, even to conclude, I would like to say the following: we have presented concrete solutions, which are possible, which are enforceable, which are legal, which are on the table, that there are several countries in the European Union that admit. What matters to the Portuguese Government and Portugal is to defend the interests of our population. And defending the interests of our population is increasing the number of vaccines and vaccinating Portuguese more quickly. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u210	We move on to the next point in our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill No. 584 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Determines the identification of all fees charged to taxpayers and the elimination of unfair and unjustified rates 626 / XIV / 2. a ( NAP) — Transparency mechanisms are established in respect of rates charged at the state level and local authorities and ensures the independent technical assessment of counterparties associated with the collection of each of the existing rates at the state level and 72 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Determines the non-repercussion on users of municipal transit and subsoil rights rates. To present the CDS-PP initiative, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents here today an initiative that determines the identification of all fees charged to taxpayers, i.e. to all Portuguese citizens and the elimination of unjustified fees. I'd like to start by saying that this project has a history, it wasn't born today, nor was it born this year. On the contrary, it has been consistently presented, at least the ideas that give it basis have been consistently presented in the various budgets. I would also like to point out that we are here proposing not only the identification of rates, but also the elimination of a significant part of them. And if it is true that the first part of the idea of identifying fees came to be enshrined in the 2017 Budget, and the government, olympically, ignored it, as if it were nothing with it, the truth is that the other part is important, as it is evident, because we are not going to be identifying fees and fees for then nothing is done. In fact, we need to realize that Portugal cannot be the country of taxes and taxes and that the proliferation of so-called 'parafiscality' must be combated. Impressively, less than a year ago, the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) presented a study, where, in addition to explaining that Portugal was the first tenth country in the European Union with a higher turnover tax and the third country with a higher tax rate on corporate income, it also did the analysis at the rates of only — only! — 24 entities, with only 24 entities accounting for around 4300 rates, of which 2900 in central administration. Only the APA, the Portuguese Environment Agency, charged the modem at 600 different rates. In fact, I referred to the CIP in this study — and I quote — that "the lack of transparency on the fees charged, the difficulty in identifying the legal basis, the lack of uniformity" and, in particular, the lack of knowledge by some entities on the part of the fees charged by themselves. What does that mean? That the administration charge so much that sometimes it doesn't know the fees it charges! In fact, the Minister of the Environment, in comment on this study, said — and I quote too — that he does not know exactly whether this number of fees exists or not. So he came to be right. The Minister of the Environment himself had no idea whether or not he existed. But you also imagine that, in these past months, you haven't done anything about it yet. Or, better, he did, he created more, because environmental rates are still in fashion. This proposal has a part of a standard of transparency and publicity and then it has another operational part to move forward towards elimination. We obviously have an opening to approve other projects and to concentrate that it is, for example, an independent group to make this identification. For us, what is essential is that there is no approval « for English to see» and that later it is not fulfilled, until that is exactly what happened in 2017. Despite the numerous demands of the CDS, the Government has never been able to comply. But I would also like to say that there is a budget in this proposal. Yes, there are extra fees and fees and, therefore, the first assumption is not to create more fees. Therefore, I would like to say that, with regard to the NAP initiative, we will vote in favour of what is there, but I would suggest to the NAP that the most important thing is that we do not continue to propose the increase in rates, because the NAP, in the budgets, is a machine to propose fees on everything and something else: the forest sector, the takeaway, air transport, meat, lead... Well, we cannot, on the one hand, think that there are more fees and then only ideas to propose several! in the same way, I would also like to say that we will vote in favour of the ENP proposal, but I would like to give you good news: exactly what you are proposing today the CDS has already proposed in the State Budget and is approved. It is Article 133. The, which is already in law. I know it's not fulfilled, but making another law doesn't help, which helps to make a good law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u212	To present the legislative initiative on behalf of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whoever pays is entitled to know the invoice of what he pays. Transparency with citizens must be the rule rather than the exception. We know that there are a number of problems with rates in Portugal, whether the absence of a general tax framework regime, which exists only in the field of local authorities, is the existence of rates that do not translate into any counterpart for those who pay them, and only a form of revenue collection for the State. There are also rates that are unduly affecting citizens'areas, such as the rate of occupation of the subsoil, which continues to weigh on citizens'turnover every month despite the NAP proposal, enshrined in the 2017 State Budget, to have prevented this situation. But it is important to say here that rates can have a useful effect and serve to encourage changes in behaviour if the impact on changing the price of the product or service is sufficient to cause this behavioral change, something that does not always happen, but that has been found, for example, as regards the environmental rate on plastic bags, implemented, and very well, by the PSD/CDS government. So we will always continue to support these rates and propose them more and more. Today, what we propose to discuss is the creation of mechanisms to ensure more transparency in the fees charged. We want more information on the rates and allow more supervision by civil society. Therefore, we propose the creation of a transparency portal for the state-wide rates which must identify them, with a set of information for each of them, information covering, inter alia, the identification of the respective legal or regulatory basis for their consideration by public authorities, the value of the fees to be charged and the economic and financial basis for that value. With this initiative, the NAP does not ignore the problem of the existence of too many fees without any associated counterpart and seeks to take measures so that there is no undue burden on people, but it deals with the problem in a responsible, weighted and non-populist manner and removes a logic of tax and tax policy made over the knee. Therefore, with this draft law, the NAP proposes the creation of a working group that aims to carry out a report with an in-depth technical study on the state-of-the-art rates in Portugal, which enables the evaluation of the counterparties associated with the collection of each of the existing rates and identifies those that do not have any associated counterpart. Only with a technical and independent assessment of the rates in our country can we identify those which have no counterpart or which have insufficient counterparts. Only after an assessment such as the one we propose here can they be revoked or reassessed in legal terms and consistent with a tax policy which, being responsible, will not unduly burden people. Finally, we do not ignore that, in the world of fees, municipalities and parishes have a fundamental role, and here too, although there are good examples that prove that transparency on existing rates is possible, often dominates opacity. In many municipalities, as evidenced by data from successive municipal transparency rates, it is not even possible to access tax regulations on your website when more transparency portals! We do not want to invade the autonomy of local power. Therefore, we do not propose any evaluation of counterparties with the horizon of possible elimination. This is the responsibility of the local authorities. What we want is simple: that, by 31 May 2022, all municipalities and parishes have a section on their websites that allows the citizen, in a simple and rapid manner, to consult the rates existing in his or her authority, together with a set of information that includes the legal or regulatory basis, counter-prediction and existing exemptions. This will be a mechanism that will provide more information to civil society and, of course, will give more means to facilitate the work of local voters, especially the opposition voters. All these concerns presented by the NAP are sensible and cross-cutting to all political forces, so we have their overall approval and are fully available to discuss improvements in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u214	The next intervention, to present its legislative initiative, was Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Taking advantage of the CDS-PP's schedule on the identification of fees charged to taxpayers and the elimination of unfair and unjustified fees, The Greens also bring a legislative initiative to discuss in order to prevent municipal rates of rights of passage and occupation of subsoil from having an impact on users. The Greens therefore insist on a proposal which, despite having already been the subject of discussion on a proposal from the Greens, did not deserve the approval of this House, however, continuing to maintain all the sense of justice and to maintain all the opportunity and current time. In fact, the municipal rate of transit rights and the municipal rate of occupation of subsoil are, of course, due to infrastructure companies. It happens that, in one way or another, these companies end up impacting these rates on consumers, literally transforming companies into mere intermediaries between users and local authorities. Now, this logic, which is gaining ground over time, completely overturns the reason for being these rates, thereby irretrievably penalizing consumers and benefiting operators. It is true that the right to revenue from the municipality is due, as a result of the occupation of the public space, but it is also true that these fees must be a burden on the companies — which, above all, earns costly profits — and cannot be a burden on the citizens. As we know, these rates were created by Law No. 53 - E / 2006, which approves the general regime of local authorities'rates, and the impossibility of being impacted on users appears to be evidenced by Article 8 (2). the Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July. However, despite this impossibility expressly arising from the law, successive governments have insisted on maintaining this impact on taxpayers. Moreover, it is sufficient to see how the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 98/2008 clearly determines it. In fact, in order to put an end to this deep injustice, Article 85. the, paragraph 3, of Law No 42 / 2016, which approved the State Budget for 2017, has made it clear that the collection of the fee is made to the company holding the infrastructure network and that it cannot fall on consumers. Despite this clarity, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, Decree-Law No. 25 / 2017 of 3 March, which came to establish the rules for the implementation of the State budget, has ineligiblely referred the matter to clarification for a change in the legal framework. That's what we propose, Mrs. Member. The proposal has all the opportunity and all the sense, even because, whatever it is, the consumer continues to bear the costs of a service that is provided to operators and therefore they must pay it. In view of this picture that is going on in time, the Greens consider that the Assembly of the Republic cannot remain indifferent and should not allow continued subversion of the subject to whom it is effectively due to the duty to pay the municipal fees of transit and occupation of the subsoil. It is precisely for this purpose that the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party brings this bill, which, once and for all, seeks to prevent companies from resorting to the usual tricks to charge costs that are theirs to taxpayers. In particular, what we propose is that a law of the Assembly of the Republic expressly determines that the municipal rate of transit rights and the municipal rate of occupation of subsoil are charged to companies which hold the infrastructure network that occupy the public space and cannot, under any circumstances, be affected by users or consumers. This is, therefore, a proposal to put justice in these abuses and an opportunity to know which banks they want to continue to allow this game, which most seems to be the push game, where companies skillfully push their own costs to the users.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u216	We now move on to the interventions of the other political forces. The first intervention is for Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The essential has already been said and is based on that recent study commissioned by the CIP where we learned that in Portugal more than 4300 fees are charged, 2900 of which within the framework of the central administration. Only the fact that civil society has to order a study to know how many fees there are should be left behind. How can it not be easy to access the number of taxes and fees that people pay? Oh, my God! The authors of the study revealed "various difficulties" in the collection of information, lack of transparency on the fees charged and even in several cases difficulty in identifying the legal basis applicable to their collection. As regards the allocation of tax revenues the best is neither to speak nor, even more so, it was "clearly the ignorance by some entities of the fees charged by themselves". For all this, the Liberal Initiative will vote in favour of the proposal submitted by the CDS to identify all fees charged to taxpayers and, more importantly, eliminate those that are unjustified. for the same reasons, we will follow the NAP's proposal to create a transparency portal that identifies, exhaustively, at the level of the central and local state, all the fees charged to the Portuguese, including those charged on the proposal of the NAP itself. This will be done in the name of taxpayers' defence, but also in the interests of transparency in public accounts and, above all, in order to have a government that ceases to treat Portuguese money as its own.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u218	I now give the floor to Mr Carlos Brás of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current society and the pace of life imposed by the economy and globalisation call for more and more rapid, flexible, more technological public administrations, with increasingly qualified human and technical resources and also increasingly flexible in terms of times. in this way, both the central administration and the autonomous administrations, or even the local administrations are constantly challenged to modernize, simplify and qualify, either by acquiring means, either by continuing training, and this administrative effort finds much of its funding at fees charged as a counterpart of the services and/or the benefits it places at the disposal of the citizens. Exactly to this end, EU Directive 2019 / 1024 recommends that public sector services be obliged to generate a substantial part of the revenue needed to cost the performance of their public missions. We have today under consideration three bills on precisely this subject of fees: Bill No. 584 / XIV / 2. the, presented by the CDS-PP, and the Bill No. 626 / XIV / 2. the, presented by the NAP, which have as their common design eliminate, already this year, many of the rates existing in the Portuguese public administrations, because they suspect that there is no counterpart to its collection or even though the formula of calculation or the base of incidence are opaque and unknown. It should be noted that Bill No. 584 / XIV / 2. the CDS, in their words, corresponds to proposal No. 944 - C, submitted by the same party at the time of the discussion and vote of the proposal for a State Budget for 2021, so we do not see any reason why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group now has a different meaning of vote than it had at the time. On the other hand, the NAP bill advocates the creation of a transparency portal, an independent technical team composed of tax experts in tax policy, with technical, administrative and logistical support from the Ministry of Finance, with the responsibility of analyzing the rates one by one and drawing up a report to be submitted by the end of January 2022. It is noted, by the way, that the General Tax Law provides for the possibility of public entities creating fees and still clearly defines the criteria underlying their creation, such as the concrete provision of a public service, the use of a public domain property or the removal of a legal obstacle. With regard to local authorities, the general scheme of local authorities' rates requires public and published information on the basis of the incidence base, the economic and financial basis, the mode of payment, the value, the formula and the exemptions for each of the rates, and on the other hand the transparency portal, which is now proposed by the NAP, seems to us indispensable, since the e-Portugal portal has already gathered a lot of this information and has potential to be developed and improved. from a political point of view, it should also be made clear here that both bills have, more or less subliminally, the idea that public administrations use the tax mechanism to extort money from citizens, with little or no justification. Thus, the ideal would be to end them, even if, then, more and better public service would be claimed. This is a paradox: end the fees and then claim more and better public service. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] the draft laws now presented also convey the idea that the Assembly of the Republic will be the only legitimate body and the most competent to monitor the creation and application of fees, but that is not the case, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The autonomous regions and local authorities have their own legitimacy, conferred by the citizens in suffrage. Moreover, they have executive and deliberative bodies which apply and monitor the application of rates in their territories, those which integrate regulations approved in public and mandatory public deliberative sessions. Having said this, a large part of what the CDS-PP and the PAN present here is an atrocity to local and regional power and their autonomy, while simultaneously launching the anathema of obscurantism over the charges charged. In addition to not having been taken into account that such proposals have a budgetary impact either on the revenue side or on the side of the expenditure side, they are completely unaware that any citizen or entity has sufficient legal mechanisms to oppose or challenge any rate applied to it, whether administratively, with complaints and hierarchical resources, these funny ones, whether judicially, administratively, judicially, judicially, or even precaution. No citizen in Portugal is protected against the application of a fee. The ENP presents Bill No. 72 / XIV / 1. the, which determines the non-repercussion on the users of municipal transit and subsoil rights rates. On this subject, it should be recalled that, with the approval of the State budget for 2021, this same matter was enshrined in Article 133. the, as mentioned above, in particular in paragraph 1 above, which reads : « The municipal rate of transit rights and the municipal rate of occupation of subsoil are paid by infrastructure operators and cannot be charged to consumers ». To this end, a working group was set up, whose first meeting took place yesterday, with the aim of modifying the legal framework in force of the occupation rate of the sub-soil, meeting...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u220	Mr. Deputy, when you can conclude, I thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u221	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, a working group was set up, the first meeting of which took place yesterday, with the aim of modifying the legal framework in force of the occupation rate of the subsoil, thus fulfilling the provisions of the State budget. There will certainly always be much to do on an administrative machine, but the design of administrative and procedural simplification is not compatible with the constant duplication of legislative initiatives and with the permanent creation of platforms and portals that only serve to confuse citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u222	The next intervention is the PSD and, to this end, Mr Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese taxpayers continue to see a continuous increase in the tax burden. The latest data from official entities confirm our greatest fears: the fiscal burden in 2020, the pandemic year, increased to 34, 8 % of GDP, the highest ever. More than 3 tenths than in 2019 were withdrawn from the portfolios of the families and the treasury of the companies, in a kind of uncritical, non-transparent and above, unfair tax confiscus. As a percentage of GDP, the tax burden includes revenue from taxes and contributions to social security. In 2020, it was the highest ever and in the pandemic year it is work! But why would it be? Where's our tax money going? What services do citizens benefit from, in the face of the tax burden and the fees and fees charged to them? These are some of the citizens' questions, which are legitimate and should make us reflect. This government only knows one way: in view of the need for revenue, there is no problem, a taxi here, a taxi there and, with that, Portugal is part of the first third of the countries of the European Union which have increased the tax burden and raised more taxes, taxes and taxes. At the same time, it is from countries that are less helpful to families, particularly in the context of combating the present social and economic crisis, and above all also those that are less helpful to companies. This is not mentioned, because this aid represents 0, 45 % of GDP, i.e. not 1 % of GDP reaches the economy, companies. But paradoxically, it is from the poorest countries in Europe. The tax extortion to which families are subjected promotes the worsening of social inequalities, is abusive and detrimental to the rights of citizens, reaching the Portuguese at the end of the month with less money in the pocket. It is unacceptable for the Portuguese to work six whole months for the State, only to pay taxes. The high tax burden on companies is critical and affects the competitiveness of our economy. As other colleagues have already said, there are more than 4300 rates in Portugal between the central state and local authorities. From this tarnished rate and taxis identified, it is a standard for its application: major difficulties in identifying the applicable legal basis, lack of uniformization and, moreover, a high complexity of the collection structure and the allocation of the revenue originating therefrom. The best example is fuel. One litre of fuel incorporates three different taxes: ISP (oil product tax), VAT (value added tax) and road contribution. In short, more than 50 % of the value of a litre of fuel is taxed. In essence, there is a terrible and terrible lack of transparency on the part of the State in the definition of fiscal policy, which has been contributing to a growing distrust of the relationship between taxpayers and the tax machine. Another criticism that is pointed out to the Portuguese system is the lack of stability and predictability of tax standards, especially by the way they condition investment. This is accompanied by the imposition of such fees on public service concessionary companies, which, in the amount, constitute a kind of tax for Portuguese, reflecting these values on families, not being identified any service that is provided. In conclusion, Mr President, the PSD is a champion of a legislative process that creates the foundations and enables greater efficiency, justice and fiscal equity and that its applicability is a promoter of investment, job creation and economic dynamisation, with a view to economic growth and the creation of wealth for all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u224	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the basic rules of the tax system is the differentiation between what are fees, which correspond to services, and taxes, which do not correspond to any directly associated service. This rule has been overturned into an extended set of fees, which have actually turned into taxes, the revenue of which is used for general expenditure of the Public Administration. Let's look at a few examples. The fund of the Institute of Wine and Wine(IVV) is supported by a fee paid by Portuguese wine growers, allegedly in correspondence with the services provided by the IVV. In the State budget for 2021, funds from this fund were transferred to support national counterparts of agricultural projects supported by Community funds, which should be supported by the budget. Another example: the More Health and Food Safety Fund. There is a charge that is charged to farmers in the act of slaughter in slaughterhouses, and which, by now, should also be paid by large areas, which refuse to pay for it, which should serve to pay animal health operations to farmers but is currently funding — imagine! — projects of the economy of the sea. The Permanent Forest Fund should serve for forest planning, for land-cleaning support, for the creation of fire fighting infrastructures, for support to producer organisations, but now, as it was founded with the Environmental Fund, it will serve for everything and something else, even to pay for carriages. The Car Guarantee Fund has already accumulated EUR 600 million in insurance, paid by insurance consumers over the years. With a balance of this size, the performance of his duties is no longer at stake, but a real tax which is paid by all Portuguese who have a car. On this fund, the CFP presented a proposal in the State budget for 2021 for it to be partly returned to the insurance consumers, lowering the rate, proposing that which was rejected, curiously, with the vote against the NAP and the abstention of the CDS now presenting these initiatives. These are just a few examples, of the many that we could mention, of rates that have been transformed into general revenues, dissociated from any service, and in some cases have exaggerated values. We therefore agree with the idea that this should be studied, that a levy should be made on fees and their correspondence to services or not. There are, however, aspects of both projects with which we do not agree and which we cannot fail to point out. Starting with the CDS project, we do not consider it acceptable to say that over a period of time, which is defined in the project, fees are automatically revoked. In our view, it can't be that way. This study must be carried out, this survey, and then, in each case, verify whether the rate is justified or not justified or whether it changes its scope and value or, then, maintain it, setting general criteria but without the intention to decide from the outset its automatic revocation without the necessary weighting. In the NAP project, we only have to point out that the study, survey and report that is proposed may well be carried out by the services of the Ministry of Finance. To create a working group with individuals of recognized merit to make a levy, let us agree, Mr. André Silva, is a little extraordinary. We believe that there are conditions for the Ministry of Finance to make this survey, with more knowledge on the subject and, of course, with less bureaucracy and less costs than the creation of a working group with personalities outside the Ministry of Finance. As for the Green Bill, concerning the non-impacting of the sub-soil occupancy rate on consumers, we agree and, of course, we will follow this initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u226	You now have the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regardless of the goodness of the project and whether or not we agree with it, I only doubt whether these fees and fees and this legal framework on fees did not exist at the time when PSD and CDS were in government because they seem to be referring to a completely new reality that was invented since they left the government, when, as I know, most of the fees and fees they are criticizing were in force when they were in government and had the opportunity to change the situation. [[PSD protests.]] in the same way, the biggest tax extortion this country has ever seen has a political nature, and it is the PSD and CDS. There are at least three issues at stake in this debate in relation to rates. The first is whether the fees are legal or illegal, whether or not they correspond to a service, if they follow a standard of transparency that must exist on all taxes and fees. And in relation to this norm and to these requirements of transparency and legality, of course, we agree. The second issue is whether the State should govern itself under a user-payer logic and, therefore, whether we should maintain taxes as a primary and essential source of State financing, which are tax revenues collected according to the capacity of each taxpayer, or whether, on the contrary, we will inaugurate a form of State financing that has to do with the use of services that are paid in the same way by all taxpayers, in a user-payer logic. And we oppose this logic. We believe that taxes should not replace taxes in a fair way. In fact, they serve a path of injustice in tax collection. Thirdly, and this is Mr André Silva of the NAP: must the rates be used to model behaviors, i.e. rather than interfere in the economic process, rather than interfere in the processes that cause pollution, which degrade the environment, which have social impacts, we will tax these processes and therefore turn the rate into a price for non-compliance, in which those who can pay and who cannot, because they do not have economic resources, does not pay, being the rules for each other and not for others? Oh, my God! We don't see the rates that way. There are, in exceptional cases, in some cases, even for environmental criteria and objectives, some rates that can make sense, but they are not a mechanism to model behaviors. There are other mechanisms that are more effective and much less unequal. But this involves political debates that we should have on the rates and I do not think that this is the goal of these initiatives. Having said this, the position of the Block on these projects follows the one that has already been expressed here, in particular by the CFP. We agree with an analysis of the rates, we agree that they are excessive and do not always concern services provided, we think that this analysis should be done either by an independent working group or within the Government and the Ministry of Finance — better if it is not necessary to hire an external company to do this analysis — we agree that in a short time this analysis can take place, or even without completion, to an ad hoc elimination of fees, with impacts which are impossible to predict in the public revenue. Whether we want to or not, they finance the State and therefore deprive the State of these revenues without an analysis that is sensible, weighted and in time seems to us not to be the best way. We will therefore vote in favour of the necessary fee analysis, we will vote against deadlines which we find unlikely to be possible for the conclusion of this analysis to be made with the aim of reducing the number of fees. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ). — Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the mandatory use of masks also applies when they move away. This is because of the Bureau's fact that there are some ladies and gentlemen. Members who, with the intention of making quite vocal parts, take off the mask so they can hear, which is not a good idea. Therefore, I draw attention to this and certainly all will understand. So, and beyond this information, I give the floor to Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the Ministers of the Environment and Economics were here in the Assembly, they were asked about how many fees they had under their jurisdiction. None of them have been able to answer and today the answer is obvious. And why? Because there are hundreds, in some cases thousands, of fees that are applied. Mr President, the issue is not the clear and legal basis for tax creation, because that is not what is being discussed in Portugal. The issue is the excessive and awkward, bureaucratic, very extensive, tax and tax role we have in Portugal. In England of the 14th century, Mr. Deputy, there was a tax that was the tax on existence. Whoever existed had to pay this tax and is one of the most absurd in our history, but with the Socialist Party, we managed to have taxes, but not so absurd, at least walking to a level of identical absurdity and today some examples have been given. However, if the honourable Member had made a small tax trail, he would see that, from the day we were born to the last day that we will be on the ground, with the Socialist Government we will always have something in common, which is to pay taxes and pay taxes. So when we're 11. the country with more business fees, one of the EU countries with more citizens fees, when António Costa said in 2019 that the great effort was that of tax simplification, we arrived at 2021 and we have no fewer fees, we have no less taxes and we have no fiscal simplification. It is true, Mr. Member, that there is a legal issue that will arise, which is the competence of municipalities and authorities... Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ). — Mr President, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u229	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, there is a legal question that will arise, which is that of the competences of municipalities and authorities within a national fiscal plan, but this competence has to be articulated and cannot be a reason simply to say that we want to do nothing about this issue. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ). — Ladies and gentlemen, Members, since the Bureau no longer registers the political forces that still have time to intervene, we are moving to the closing stage, so to this end I have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to welcome the steps we are taking here for a consensus, leaving the assurance that, on our part, we have all the openness to all the amendments, either with regard to the method, or with regard to the deadlines, and stressing that what we are proposing is a process that leads to a sensible revocation of rates that are already illegal, rates that do not have any consideration associated with them. Of course, apart from these, I will probably think that there are also others that are not justified, but that is not what I am proposing here today, what I am proposing today is common ground to almost all parties here, except for the PS. Now, I'd like to say that I was stuck with what I heard from the PS. This is because, in relation to a simple project that says to eliminate fees that have not associated any counterpart or any service, the Socialist Party says: « good, now the administration needs increasingly qualified human and technical resources». Therefore, the more sophisticated the Public Administration is, the more charges it charges. Cobra 4300, but if we want to have a better public administration we'll go to 5000, 6000 or 7000! And he also tells us: "Then, do you want to revoke fees and then start asking for better public services? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, even if I ask the wrong question, tell me to serve taxes if it is not to finance public services. We pay IRS (tax on income of natural people), IRC (tax on income of public people), VAT, IMI, alcohol tax, tobacco tax, sugar tax, taxes on everything and something else, seal tax, gas and petrol tax and none of this is to finance public services? Oh, my God! The honourable Member, there, says : 'if citizens want quality public services they pay more than 4900 fees above this'. This cries out to the heavens! I am not proposing the revocation of all fees, I am proposing that the rates which are illegal do not receive, in response, the reply that you gave to the Portuguese citizens, which was: « do you think the fees are illegal? Go to court». I don't know if we're all understanding what we're saying here and what's going on here. He concluded by saying that today I had an experience of public services that was very interesting, when trying to mark a presence service in a citizen store. I called five times for the number and every time they tried to forward the call, this one was automatically off. Well, I guess we also need to pay a fee for the call to be made. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ). — Ladies and gentlemen, Members, we turn to point 8 of our agenda today, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 723 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Establishment of the legal regime for the protection of the urban tree, 733 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Defines the management criteria of the public urban tree and the mandatory establishment of municipal regulations, 734 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Creates the regime of protection and expansion of the urban tree, 741 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Approves the legal regime of protection, conservation and promotion of the urban tree and 748 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Instruments for managing shrubs in urban areas. To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Tens of trees felled in Guimarães, to requalify the civic center of the village of Caldas das Taipas ; slaughter of trees in Coimbra, for installation of a golf course ; 400 trees slaughtered in Monsanto, for allegedly reducing the risk of fire ; for the slaughter of thousands of trees, for the installation of solar panels in Santiago do Cacém ; the project of mega urbanization of Quinta dos Ingleses, in Carcavelos, provides for the slaughter of 51 ha of trees ; the ICNF (National Institute for Conservation of Nature) authorizes the slaughter of 200 Sureros and Azinheiras, for the construction of a golf course, in Vila Nova de Cacella, justifying that the trees were dry, by coincidence, all at the site of the construction of the Gulf ; and the slaughter of trees in Braga, for the construction of cycloroads. Every day, at some point in the country, the unnecessary slaughter of trees is attended either for the installation of particular projects, with the agreement of APA and the ICNF, or for the installation of municipal projects. But also, under an erratic reading of management of this natural heritage, we have witnessed a multiplicity of situations that are mortgageting this common good, particularly with excessive prunings that could be perfectly avoided if there was a correct planning in the ordination and architecture of the public space, whether it is urban or not, as well as a correct choice of the specimens planted in order to avoid social tensions. Severely rotten trees become more dangerous, develop more branches and more foliage and lose biomechanical balance. A rolled tree is a disfigured tree, weakened, more vulnerable to diseases, at risk of falling, which has lost all characteristics of the species and its heritage value. And all this happens in a context where, as we already know, Portugal will be one of the European countries most affected by climate change, the greatest challenge humanity faces, with 60% of our territory threatened by desertification. We also know that trees capture carbon dioxide and emit oxygen and therefore are fundamental to mitigating the effects of climate change, but the role of trees does not end here, they have the ability to reduce the temperature, by shading, to hold water on the ground and combat desertification and also to improve air quality, whose pollution is responsible for 7000 annual deaths in our country. Another challenge we face is the loss of biodiversity. Portugal is the fourth European country with more endangered species, we are on the list of 15 % of countries with more endangered species. Given the size of our territory, it is an incredible performance, for the worst reasons. Here too, the role of trees is fundamental to the preservation of ecosystems and the promotion of biodiversity. In Portugal only classified trees of public interest or protected species are protected. All the others — which are almost all — are entirely at the mercy of the economic interests or the insensitivity of some autarchs who order unqualifying prunings or who send trees to slaughter because they have any project to execute and show done work. The NAP cannot accept this situation and therefore we present this bill. Thus, and as with the generality of public caricature infrastructures, it is necessary to protect the tree structure legally, it is necessary to create a normative framework for the management of the indigenous and alloctone tree, of public or private property, of spontaneous growth or cultivated, in which the operations of pruning, transplants and criteria for slaughter, over whom it controls, the recognition of the profession of the arboretist or the provision of a sanctionary regime for non-compliances are covered. Protecting trees is to protect people, their health, their well-being, their quality of life, is to protect the territory, ecosystems, biodiversity and national financial resources, whether by saving energy in the cooling of buildings, or by reducing expenses in the National Health Service. Mr. President ( José Manuel Pureza ). — To present the PSD's legislative initiative, Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Awareness of the importance of trees in the urban context today plays an essential role in approaching the future of cities. There have been decades of inability to deal with the constant massacres with unjustified abatements, poorly executed pods, particularly infamous bearings, and a lack of clear and effective regulation of the protection of urban arboretum. This is a reality where balance is indispensable. If, on the one hand, it is relevant to ensure that the tree is a central element, on the other hand, we cannot remain hostage to fundamentalisms, as if the trees we have nested in the urban mesh were in the same conditions as those of the natural spaces. It is essential that we have the perception that these trees are outside their natural context, which requires special attention for the maintenance of these trees, which are confined to the territory where they are. in a context where climate change marks planetary experience, concrete actions are needed that minimize its impact and promote the adaptation of our territories. Trees have a decisive role in adapting and fighting to win this war. We need abundant trees, framed by effective laws in their protection, cared for by those who have the proper qualifications and skills to do so. Good management of the urban tree is essential for public health, for climate friendlyness, for the quality of life and enjoyment of the population, for the enhancement of the territory and for the promotion of biodiversity. The benefits of maintaining and creating urban green infrastructures are widely known to achieve gains in various areas, which go through the environmental dimension, climate, health and urbanism, contributing to the sustainability of urban spaces and their populations. The strategic allocation of trees is also crucial to reduce energy expenditure, both in heating and cooling of territories. The bill that today's PSD Parliamentary Group advocates the protection of urban forest. This diploma comes from a deep auscultation throughout the country, from citizens mobilized for this cause, from specialists, from municipal chambers and subscribers to a petition, which has arrived at Parliament, with a view to regulating the management of the urban arbored. This is also the time to thank all these, and especially the petitioners, for their civic commitment and for the contributions they have made to make this bill more solid. This law provides a vision of the future for a sustainable territory, defines the management criteria of the public urban tree and the obligation to create municipal regulations that guide the management of the tree and the protection of the urban green infrastructure. It also establishes pruning and transplantation operations, criteria for slaughtering and selection of species to be planted, a necessary definition of hierarchicization. Municipal regulations for the protection and management of urban shrubs will be fundamental tools to ensure the adoption of best practices and become mandatory in all municipalities. The municipalities shall have a one-year period from the date of publication of this law to publish their regulations, which shall be registered with the ICNF in order to ensure their conformity. The bill also includes compensation measures for when it is necessary to remove species, making it mandatory to replace them, even in another location and under other conditions. Another key point of this bill refers to the need for recognition of the profession of treer. in this field, action is required by properly qualified professionals, who possess the technical and scientific skills necessary to be able to intervene in the shaft. in this bill, "we perceive the pota" literally. We are not merely saying that we want better maintenance of the urban tree. Let's go further: we point to the definition of procedures and guidelines based on best technical and scientific knowledge and we guarantee the procedural framework in a document with the designation of 'good practice guide for urban tree management', contained in the legal diploma itself. For its improvement, we believe that this bill must be brought down to the committee, in order to reap the contributions, in particular, of the Socialist Party, which, since the submission of this initiative, has shown complete willingness to enrich it. The responsibility and relevance of the topic today require time and discussion for this. We did not align ourselves in fundamentalisms or in lightning processes, as the NAP tried to make this happen. from the analysis to the initiatives presented, which we welcome, it will be important to emphasize that the attempt to regulate the maintenance of the tree in private space does not seem feasible, not because of ideological issues, but mainly because of the difficulty that this whole reality would bring to these processes. when ending the indiscriminate abbots and the radicals in public space, we will be making history in the protection of trees in Portugal, without risking blockades or the existence of trees without maintenance, becoming dangerous or disturbing of the necessary cohabitation with the urban tissue. The regulation, through the municipalities, of the maintenance of the arboreal tree in public space and in the private domain of the municipality is a safeguard principle, together with the supervision by the ICNF. The PSD Parliamentary Group is also open to enriching and complementing this bill, which is certain of the vital importance it will represent for our cities and villages, for the environment and for the quality of life of the populations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u233	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Joacine Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u234	This legislative initiative aims to ensure the integrity of the urban tree, both in its air and in its underground part, to value trees as structural elements of the landscape in urban space and to promote the expansion of the urban tree. This will require that we have a preservation perspective, but also a repair view, as something fundamental. It is also necessary to establish a department for the management and enhancement of the tree heritage within the ICNF. It is necessary for each municipality to make an investment in the existence of a municipal regulation of the urban arbores, as well as the recognition of the profession of arborealist. But it is also necessary that, in addition to this anthropocentric view, which is generally the element that unites these legislative initiatives, we will not only fit the trees as elements at the service of individuals, of urbanity and of our needs. These initiatives must also take into account that the trees, by their existence, by their importance, deserve the necessary recognition of their individual history. in this respect, this initiative is also a huge call for attention to excessive environmental crimes, to the disrespect and destruction, often unnecessary, of the tree. I would also like to use this minute to greet the Roma people, to greet the Roma people, on this very special day.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u235	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today brings forward a proposal for the establishment of a legal regime for the protection, conservation and promotion of the urban tree. We want to start by thanking the petitioners who brought this issue first to Parliament. Their citizenship exercise and their qualified contributions to the debate were of great importance. In fact, there are too many legal omissions. In our cities, towns and villages, the rule is that of unprotection of trees. There is a lack of a good practice manual and there is a lack of protecting these essential elements to the quality of our lives. in this discussion, we realize that there is a great influence of various parties on the need to create legislation. This will not alienate the dimension and the evaluation of the problem. Yes, many authorities have treated trees very badly and, yes, many trees are indiscriminately cut off and many others are subjected to abusive pruning. Yes, green public spaces are missing and trees are missing to regulate the climate. Yes, too many trees are planted without taking into account the natural conditions of the site and its compatibility with human use, space and building. The trees also end up being always the poorest relative when the land was ordered to press real estate speculation. But this confluence must not be just to "shut the sun with the sieve" and alleviate the bad conscience. We need effective measures and that is why we propose: an inventory to know the number of trees and the services they provide; the development of a regulation and a municipal plan that guarantee the principle of non-regressivity, i.e. that the area of trees and ecological services they provide cannot be diminished; and the implementation of minimum mandatory areas, so that trees have a minimum area defined in each municipality. These are the major differences between our proposal and others that are on the table, and we therefore ask whether these measures are being followed. We also propose that abusive pruning be prohibited, that slaughter take place only for safety reasons or other taxable reasons and that, where possible, transplant rather than slaughter is chosen. We also propose that a whole set of rules be established to ensure healthy trees and living spaces. We also want the tree trade to be recognized. Those who plan and deal with the arboreal park must be properly qualified for this function and the State must ensure that such training exists and that no one is excluded from the exercise of the function. Trees in urban space have an important role in air quality, they hijack carbon, they promote biodiversity, they reduce noise pollution, they improve water flow and they protect soils. They should therefore be estimated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u238	We conclude by saying that taking care of our trees is also an inclusion policy. Quality public spaces are free for the entire population, regardless of their income, and these quality spaces with trees must exist everywhere. In addition, many of the ecological services of trees, such as temperature regulation in cities, are especially important for the most vulnerable layers of the population. That is why we put forward this proposal to build inclusive and respectful public spaces on the planet. Let's make that choice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u239	The next intervention is Mrs Mariana Silva. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the previous Legislative Session, in July, The Greens brought the debate the need to work on a national strategy for promoting urban treery. The draft resolution of the ENP was unanimously approved in this House, giving rise to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 55 / 2020, which recommends to the Government that it, together with the authorities, create a national strategy for promoting tree trees in urban areas to preserve and extend green corridors and spaces in line with conservation and preservation strategies and plans, integrating in this strategy a handbook of good practices in the management of tree trees in urban areas containing appropriate rules, including environmental and landscape requirements for planting, pruning, cleaning and maintenance, logging and transplantation of trees in urban areas and public spaces. Given this first step, it is necessary to reflect on the options applied slightly throughout the territory, on the decrease of green spaces and plant and tree cover to give rise to concrete structures, which have led to the exhaustion and degradation of natural ecosystems in urban and periphery areas, to the drastic loss of vital services of ecosystems and potentially to the decrease of resilience to phenomena caused by climate change. Faced with the new environmental challenges that are placed, such as the problem of climate change and loss of biodiversity, the need for new policy approaches oriented to the adoption of nature-based solutions, which go through the optimization of the huge potential of the tree in urban environment, taking into account its numerous advantages, such as the ability to retain rainwater in the soil and drainage for underground sheets, contribution to lower levels of air and sound pollution, climate regulation and creation of a more harmonious landscape in cities. There are numerous social and environmental benefits of good planning of tree trees in the urban environment and in public spaces. Trees, especially adults, provide a service of high ecological value, insofar as they act as carbon sinks and perform pollutant emissions filtering functions, many of which originate in road traffic and industry. The use of green spaces and the contact with nature in parks and gardens in cities promote physical activity and positively influence the quality of life of citizens, with advantages for physical and psychic well-being, resulting in an important factor in preventing public health. For the Greens, the city space must promote biodiversity through continuous green structures. In many cases, what we have found is that there is a lack of planning and good management of the tree heritage in urban areas, generating radical pruning or rolling mills, indiscriminate slaughter without phytosanitary foundation, lack of maintenance in transplant acts, among other situations. This debate is as urgent as we need to speed up the fight and adapt to climate change. What the ENP proposes is that what was recommended becomes law-enforcement, requiring the Government to create a national strategy for the protection and promotion of tree trees in urban areas that contains a good practice manual in the management of this tree, and that all municipalities, in turn, be provided with a municipal regulation for the management of tree trees in urban areas. It is also noteworthy that the Greens attach to citizens the right to participate, in the elaboration of these instruments, and to political supervision to the Assembly of the Republic and to municipal assemblies, because participation is essential to give due importance to the maintenance of the urban arbores, without creating incompatibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u241	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Morais Soares, whom the Bureau welcomes on the occasion of your first intervention in the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great pleasure and satisfaction that we are discussing a set of initiatives that seek to protect and preserve the trees in urban areas. It is not necessary to seek or study much to know the extraordinary and essential effects of tree trees on the quality of life of people and their multiple benefits to society. It brings ecological benefits, with an impact on the climate, by controlling temperature, wind and humidity, being able to reduce air pollution, or even noise, luminosity and light reflection, as well as preventing full and controlling erosions, being recognized as a natural promoter of biodiversity. It brings social benefits, because, whenever we enjoy a garden or green spaces, there are leisure spaces or even sports spaces that promote the improvement of the surrounding park and improve the experience in our cities, with a strong impact on the physical and mental health of each one of us. It brings aesthetic benefits, diversifying landscapes through the colors, textures, shapes and densities of different plants, which promote an open and unique dynamics of spaces and enrich the sight of our country. It brings economic benefits, because it allows reduced energy consumption of buildings and enhances public and private heritage and tourism and cultural activity. All of us, Mr President, in the past, have known situations of genuine crimes against trees, many caused by some municipalities, which, with some difficulties in the management of the public space and the administration of the territory, have rushed into ill-made pits and have resorted to improper uses of green spaces or even to the removal of trees, without pain or pity, which, in fact, reflects a lack of planning and strategy for trees. Trees are undoubtedly an invaluable heritage for their contributions to the planet and to living beings, being a fundamental part of the green infrastructure that increases the quality of human life and promotes the preservation of biodiversity. We cannot ignore the environmental issues, nor the climate changes on our planet. And, in particular, in Portugal, we are subject to an additional increase in global average temperature and to various climate changes, with a higher frequency of extreme heat and cold waves becoming less and less common, so we follow the concerns. It is necessary to implement measures necessary and appropriate for the mitigation of inherent risks. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS believes that the legal regime should be strengthened and the management of the State's arboreal heritage as well as the urban arboreal structure should be regulated, and it should be mandatory for all municipalities to adopt a municipal regulation. A status of trees of special conservation interest, such as oak, ginger and olives, among other species, with more demanding and stricter measures of slaughter, cutting, pruning and rolling bans, shall be created. The ecological significance of various species deserves, in fact, a public recognition and a specific safeguard of several unique specimens of size and rarity, and therefore a true policy to protect the tree heritage must be developed. In the view of the CDS, municipalities should commit themselves annually to increasing the municipal tree by percentage, with particular preference for the native species of each municipality, since it is necessary more than the one that currently exists, to mitigate global warming.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u243	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u244	I'm done now, Mr. President. But it is not enough to create regulations and enforce them, to hear, to know the real challenges and to promote good behavior, and to improve the quality of life of citizens. Now, yes, I am going to finish now, Mr President: municipalities have an increasingly decisive role to play in combating climate change. For global problems, the answers must be more and more local, at the level of municipalities and parish, so they should be heard, because they are better acquainted with their territories and have an obligation to preserve and protect heritage than anyone else.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u245	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Raquel Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are called upon to debate the importance of rethinking the management of the tree in urban areas. It is therefore important, firstly, to welcome not only the initiative of the parliamentary groups, but also the citizen initiative already appreciated by the Assembly of the Republic, recognizing the merit of having motivated this parliamentary debate. The principles underlying the draft laws, which invoke environmental and landscape reasons and the social function that is inherent to it to justify the importance of regulating the conservation and promotion of treery in urban areas, deserve the generic agreement of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. The preservation of trees is essential in combating heat waves and contributes decisively to the cooling of the urban environment, through the increase of green spaces and the creation of shaded areas. Today, the importance of the presence of natural elements in artificialized spaces is common knowledge and the arboreal element has come to take on greater importance in the urban context. We know that a wrong selection of tree species in urban space can bring numerous damage — infrastructure, aesthetics and well-being — while a correct choice and the correct treatment of the tree bring numerous benefits, protecting it from pests, prolonging its life, contributing to aesthetics, to the urban environment and to the well-being of the citizen. The best legislation for urban tree management will certainly have a positive impact on the citizen and the environment. It is also mentioned that the National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity for 2030, which has as its strategic objectives stagnate the loss of biodiversity, being emphasized that biodiversity exists not only in the classified areas, which close high natural capital, but also, for example, in a forest or even in a small garden. Indeed, biodiversity is not an exclusive part of rural areas. Biodiversity is also an expression in urban areas. The rules in question will effectively contribute to this design. In addition, however, any measures and instruments at urban tree level should bear in mind the concept of urban ecological structure and should consider not only the existing green spaces of collective use, but also the spaces available in urban mesh, in order to constitute a protection structure, climate regulation, leisure and recreation, integrated into urban fabric. It is important to promote a national strategy for the protection and promotion of tree trees in urban areas, in line with local authorities. I put this down, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is committed to this cause. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u247	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presence of trees and green spaces in the urban environment is undoubtedly a quality of life and well-being factor. If it is evidence and it is observable that the urban arboreal has an incalculable aesthetic value, which comforts our need for proximity to nature, we also know that this same arboreal performs invisible and silent tasks, but absolutely essential for ecological balance. The urban arboreal works in the purification of air contaminated by traffic and industry, being a carbon sink; reducing noise pollution, making a barrier effect with the trees; lowering temperatures and increasing humidity, so it is a microclimatic regulator; it is also a shelter for several species, maintaining animal biodiversity; even ensuring safety, avoiding floods and acting in the prevention of erosion and soil degradation. The progressive urbanization led to a decrease in green spaces and plant cover, which has the most varied impacts on the environment and people's quality of life. In the opposite sense, the ecological principle of the natural continuum, being respected, means that the natural landscape can penetrate the city, temptingly and continuously. This means that new spaces must be created and existing spaces must be recovered, linked by the so-called 'green corridors', integrating pedestrian routes and accesses. So that we can take care of green spaces and trees, so that there are leisure spaces, for physical activity and sport, so that there can be projects of gardens and educational projects, particularly environmental awareness, for example, there must be a defined policy and it is also necessary to not allow real estate interests to prevail in the face of such a natural continuum, as is the case of Carnaxide greenhouse. The right to cities is also this: to be able to live with quality in an urban center, to take care of the landscape and natural heritage. Despite the efforts that are made at local level, with municipalities recognized for their good practices, such as Setúbal or the municipality of Loures, which promote specific training in urban tree management, for example, a national view is needed, because it is a matter of common and diffuse interest, and in fact a national strategy is needed to protect and promote tree trees in urban areas. We are available to deepen this debate in the field of expertise, because it is necessary, firstly, to extend the urban tree and the vegetable cover, and it is also necessary to enhance the advantages of the green we have, with planning and good tools for tree management, with the sharing of technical and operational rules. Without prejudice to the fact that there are more specific aspects related to the autonomy of the authorities that need to be guarded, we are available and committed to contributing, as a specialist, to finding the best solutions, so that cities and urban areas are breathable, healthier, so that children have to play. This is a matter that matters to work. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u249	There are parliamentary groups that still have intervention time, if anyone wants to sign up. Mr Nuno Fazenda of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have already said a lot, so I will just, to sum up, leave three brief notes. The first is that the benefits of the urban tree are unquestionable. Various benefits have already been mentioned in terms of the thermal regulation of housing, streets and avenues, the reduction of noise, the improvement of air quality, biodiversity, the prevention of fillies and also the creation of leisure and living spaces for citizens. But the truth is, in spite of these benefits, what we have observed, in several cases, are real attacks on the cutting or slaughter of trees, with profound impact on the environment and our cities, which, in fact, call into question, precisely, the benefits that we have all listed. That is why we need to improve legislation, for the protection of the urban tree. The second note is to greet the subscribers of the petition already submitted and discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, which fights for the regulation of the management of the urban tree, which has been a very important contribution, putting the subject on the political agenda and on the agenda of this Parliament. in this context, I also wanted to welcome the legislative initiatives presented by the different parliamentary groups. It is in this context that I leave the third note, to point out that, on the side of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, commitment and interest are total, in order to improve legislation, to protect the urban landscape, to cooperate and cooperate with the different political forces to have a better law, a law that protects the urban tree, which is essential for our cities, towns and villages. One last point that it is important to highlight is this: the design of this law that we want to build together must be done not only in the context of this House, but also by listening to specialists, NGOs (non-governmental organizations) and, in particular, municipalities, which are the managers of the territory and are fundamental actors to have a law that we wish better for the protection of the urban tree in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u251	Let us turn to the end of this debate. To that end, Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make two comments only to the interventions, the first to the intervention of the Social Democratic Party, which has come to complain that this is a « lightning process ». The Social Democratic Party has been in Parliament for 47 years and, on this matter, it has never done anything rigorously. When someone comes forward with a proposal to regulate tree protection, the PSD says it takes 47 more years to make this regulation... [[PSD protests.]] ...and to continue to let the autarchs destroy the trees of our country. This position of the Social Democratic Party is regrettable. As for most, there is a general feeling,... [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] ... there is unanimity in relation to the need to regulate the urban tree, with all its benefits. We are, of course, available to find a joint final text that presents the best regulation for the country, listening, of course, to all the entities involved and targeted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u253	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the last item on our agenda before the vote, which consists in the assessment of draft resolution No 907 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — By valuing scientific research and by ending the precarious work that reaches the research pockets, together with, in general, the Bills No 610 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the status of the international student of higher education ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 36 / 2014 of 10 March ), 727 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to support workers of the National Scientific and Technological System, 736 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the protection of international students enrolled in public higher education institutions, 753 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Clarifies the extension of the deadline for the delivery and presentation of theses or dissertations by means of an interpretative standard of Law No 75 - B / 2020 of 31 December and 758 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — Legal arrangements for the hiring of scientific research personnel in training. To present the bill on behalf of the ENP, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative presented here by the Greens meets the need to value scientific research and to put an end to the precarious work of the research fellows. Between 2009 and 2018, according to the Foundation for Science and Technology ( FCT ), investment in research and development originating in funds from the State sector declined by 10 %. Eurostat data confirm that Portugal is one of six countries of the European Union where there has been a decrease in the allocation of public funds in this area, with an investment in science of 1, 41 % of GDP, while the European average is 2, 19 %. In 2020, Portuguese researchers in the most diverse areas played a decisive role in the approach to the pandemic, both in the understanding of the virus and in the adaptation and instrumentalization of the care to be developed. The recognition, even at international level, including with collaboration with Nobel Prize Teams, Portuguese researchers and research units has revealed the highest levels of excellence. A recognition of the rigorous training, commitment and inter-relationship of the scientific community at global level. However, many Portuguese researchers, or trained in Portugal, live in permanent professional instability and therefore decide to optimize their knowledge, innovative ideas and vanguards in other countries where there are guarantees of continuity of developed projects, so we are increasingly witnessing an escape of "brains" and knowledge that would have potential to contribute to the competitiveness of the National Scientific and Technological System. If, on the one hand, the FCT has guaranteed approval rates in the order of 40 % in individual doctoral awards contests, betting on advanced training, on the other hand, the rates of rejection of R & D projects are around 95 %. of the 5847 applications for scientific research submitted to the Foundation for Science and Technology, only 312 were funded. Also in the competition Estimulo al Emplo Scientifique Individual, da FCT, the approval rates are very much below the needs and expectations created for doctoral researchers. In 2020, of the 3648 validated applications only 300 were funded. The Greens believe that the support of the FCT, which today sustains the scarce scientific employment and R & D projects, must be converted into contracts of work, work with rights, solid investment and continuity. In view of the absence of a financing model capable of promoting work with rights for doctoral researchers and even assuming that the FCT support for R & D projects and support for scientific employment do not guarantee the quality and continuity of scientific activity developed in Portugal, The Greens recognise the value for the scientific community of funding allocation by the FCT, so they consider that these unrealistic approval rates are not acceptable. We therefore propose setting targets for the next two years, to increase the integration of doctoral researchers into research careers, replacing Stimulus competitions with scientific employment by employment contracts. We also propose the definition of regularity in the allocation of funds from public funding to the FCT, in the medium and long term. We also propose the regularization of the precarious links of researchers in higher education and science under PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ). We also propose the transparency and uniformization of the criteria for assessing and increasing the rates of approval of the financing of research work. Finally, we propose greater transparency of the processes through the preparation of annual reports by the Science and Technology Foundation. It is entirely fair to value scientific research and to end precariously in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u255	To present the legislative initiative on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today brings to debate a bill that amends the Statute of the International Student, which has existed since 2014. But it was not in 2014 that we started an important discussion in the Assembly of the Republic about the consequences of the social and economic crisis that settled in the Academy in Portugal precisely because of the pandemic crisis. Of all the students to whom we have been trying to respond, because of their aspirations, economic difficulties, difficult mental health situations, are largely international students. They are students who, in the last two, three, four, five years, have sought the country to be able to graduate, to be able to study here, and who at this time live a truly distressing situation. There is, within this large international community of different origins, a specific group of Brazilian students — I would say it is a very important piece of this cake — which, seeing its national currency devalued, because, in large part, it pays the bulk of the tips that are forced to pay in Portuguese higher education and also because it has lost its precarious, informal jobs — often in the area of tourism, which has ended up closing doors — is even in a social emergency situation. When we talk about a social emergency, we are not talking about students who have a family here who can ask for support and who can come to them. We're not even talking about students who can go back to their homes, because they live in the city where they study or in the country where they study. Part of these students, also because of the impossibility of travelling to their country, are currently in Portugal without money to pay for their accommodation and with many difficulties in getting, together with the Foreign and Border Service, the renewal of their visa to continue to study. In addition, they find an administrative difficulty with the social action services of these various higher education institutions to seek emergency support that is, in general, given to national students, but that are not given, in general, to these international students. Therefore, the situation is truly dramatic. I shall have no time at this time to present the initiative to you all the difficulties that have come to the Left Block Parliamentary Group, which we have heard in the Committee on Education and Science, as well as those which have been reported to us by the various nuclei of international students who have already had the opportunity to hear here in the Assembly of the Republic. But I am sure that it is the responsibility of this House, even though it is not Portuguese citizens, look seriously at the role we can play with these students. There are reports of students who, because they have lost their jobs, because they do not have access to emergency funds, because they are not able to pay their tips—in some cases, three or four times higher than the value of the tip practiced for national students—are looking for the soup of the poor, they are looking for IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), looking for houses in autrquias, because they currently do not have a place to stay. And even the higher education institutions, which are living, some of them, difficult financial situations, are not able to give a full answer. It is a social responsibility, for the historical relationship we have with these communities, not only a word of support, but above all measures that enable the Portuguese Government and State to act in an emergency situation. The Assembly of the Republic responds to the Portuguese citizens, but it also has the added responsibility to respond to all those who seek our country to live, work and study. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u257	The next intervention is by Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems that the workers of the National Scientific and Technological System ( SCTN) have to face are not today. They result from a path of decades that has condemned the SCTN and its workers to instability and the absence of an effective valuation policy. With the picture resulting from the epidemic, what became even more evident was the tremendous fragility and precariousness of the whole system and the actual condition of worker that characterizes researchers subject to the condition of pocket. Many were left with one hand in front and another behind. His work is fundamental, but there are many project pockets that have been without the scholarship and have continued to work without any maturity. The FCT may have even extended some projects, but has not extended the financing of the projects. Then, of course, there are no means. at this time, several sub-signed claiming the extension of all research scholarships, because, as is evident, the closure of universities, research centres, laboratories, libraries and archives, the prohibition or limitation of travel, field work, participant observations and interviews, the provision of care to dependents have made it impossible to develop ongoing research, creation and innovation. If, in April last year, the Association of Scientific Research Fellowships (ABIC ) survey on restrictions on normal implementation of the research work plans resulting from the epidemic indicated that 91 % of the researchers felt that the containment measures of COVID-19 had a significant or very significant impact on their work plan, one year later the problems worsened. In addition, ABIC has also warned that, together with the tightening of the socio-economic conditions of researchers, the lack of prospects for the future is leading to a worrying increase in cases of pockets, including doctoral scholarships, even placing the possibility of withdrawal of scholarships. For this reason, the CFP today brings the discussion of initiatives that respond to immediate problems, but also to fundamental problems. If it is true that there has long been a demand for stability and predictability in competitions, the exceptionality of the moment we are going through cannot be ignored. Therefore, we propose: exceptional support for scientific research fellows; the guarantee of access to family support; the extension of all scholarship contracts for 6 months; the extension of the IC & D projects (scientific research and technological development) and the Strategic Projects of the Research Units for a period of 6 months, ensuring the respective financing and maintenance of all workers restricted to each project; the extension of the EWC (Stimulus Employment Competition) Institutional, competition for award of doctoral grants 2021 and the IC & D Project Competition in all scientific fields; the opening of a 2. the application phase of the individual CEEC ( 4 ). the edition) and contest of CI & DT projects in all scientific fields. Moreover, in another line, we state that the proposal of the CFP in State Budget, so that the extension of the delivery period and / or presentation of the thesis or dissertation, does not also imply the payment of any value related to propines, fees or emoluments, is fulfilled in all higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is incomprehensible and unworthy that there are institutions to put hundreds and hundreds of students in a state of epidemic! In addition to taking steps to overcome emerging issues, measures must be taken to ensure that this situation never happens again. In Portugal at least half of the scientific workers are estimated to have precarious links. We need to tackle this problem by root. A large part of the TBS workers maintain with the institution where they work a relationship based on the Statute of the Research Fellowship. The PCP defends that he needs to be killed. In practice, the current Statute of the Fellowship has enabled thousands of technicians and researchers to be used without due compensation on the basis of precarious links. In view of the fact that these scientific workers effectively produce work, immaterial and material, it is of the most basic justice that they are guaranteed a contract with legal status of a legal and laboral nature. Thus, the main proposal that we present in this area is the replacement of the current stock exchange regime by labour contracts that guarantee an effective link between the investigator and the institution where he works. Finally, we defend that the generalization of the recruitment of workers to meet the needs of the National Scientific and Technological System must necessarily and always pass through the opening up of the recruitment to careers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: There is no shortage of precaution in science!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u259	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About 56 000 international students in Portugal, who, according to the Association of Students of the University of Lisbon, generate about EUR 20 million in revenue for the institutions. It happens that public education is not a business, it is a fundamental right, regardless of the nationality of students. However, the current law allows higher education institutions to freely fix the value of the tip, establishing that it cannot be less than the maximum tip fixed for the study cycle concerned. Thus it is justified that, in the same college, there are students to enjoy exactly the same services, with the same teachers, with the same infrastructure, however some pay an annual tip less than 1000 € and the others can get to pay 7000 €. This is a deeply unfair and discriminatory situation. On the other hand, the economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic highlighted the lack of protection of these students who are attending Portuguese higher education institutions. Now, if international student pick-up campaigns are made, if they are admitted to our institutions, then we cannot simply leave them to their luck in an absolutely exceptional situation as the current one. These students, in addition to paying a higher tip value, must also bear the costs with food and accommodation. Currently, it is possible for international students to benefit only from indirect social action. However, the impossibility of accessing all social action mechanisms was particularly serious in the current context, leaving many students in a vulnerable situation without the help they needed. The situation still worsened when several universities up to these support denied, having arrived at us several cases of students to whom the food supply was denied. But in what country do we live to deny food to students who are displaced, many without any family support, and who have faced unexpected unemployment situations due to the current pandemic? Oh, my God! Therefore, to avoid such cases, we propose that, in exceptional situations such as the one we live in, international students should also benefit from direct social action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u261	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been said, but it is important to strengthen, because it is no more important to remember, that students enrolled in higher education have been numerous to warn against the failure to comply with Article 259. the State budget for 2021. We are well aware that this calls for the extension of the deadline for the presentation or delivery of master's dissertations and doctoral theses, without any additional cost, until the end of this academic year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also know that this measure arose to respond to a problem experienced by students in the context of a health crisis, since they have been conditioned or prevented from developing their work and access to essential resources for the completion of their projects in the time they would be stipulated. Faced with these same limitations, imposed by an external context and a context of health crisis, students who were not forced to pay more propensity, rates and emoluments had to be assured. Although this has been approved in the State budget, it is not occurring in all higher education institutions. Therefore, this aspect seems to result from an interpretation that goes against the spirit of the law and students are obviously being harmed in this context. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this interpretation brings difficulties and expenses which, as I have said, contradict the spirit of the law adopted here. At the last regiment hearing, we had the opportunity to tell Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education that it would be important to have a proactive action by the Ministry, with the institutions, to clarify what was effectively approved in the State budget. This does not seem to have happened and we therefore present today a proposal for clarification of this law, through an interpretative standard, to ensure that the extension of the deadline provided for in Article 259. the State Budget shall apply to all final evidence and work for which the term ended during the school year 2020 / 2021. Thus, failure to comply with this House's decision is avoided, contributing to the equal response to all students, regardless of the higher education institution they attend. With regard to the other proposals under discussion, I would like to point out that what happens to international students in Portugal obviously has an answer from the Ministry. I understand, of course, the difficulties facing higher education institutions, but it is not acceptable for international students to be harmed in this context. Therefore, the NAP will follow the proposals aimed at solving these problems, as it will follow the proposals resulting from the demands of our researchers, since it is more evident that the path to be made in this area is of valorisation and dignity of our researchers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u263	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u264	Mr President, once again we are discussing six initiatives today on a series of issues which have a vague connection: two initiatives, the Left Block and Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, on the status of international students ; one initiative, the NAP, on the extension of deadlines for the delivery of theses; two initiatives, the Greens and the CFP, for support to researchers, extension of deadlines and scientific employment contests; and one proposal, from the CFP, to end the research fellows. Once again, I have to say that, in this way, it is completely impossible to make a structured discussion on complex matters, so I am forced to do a completely counter-gostic rhyming, because this is not the work I think I should do. But let's go. On the issue of international students, it is appropriate to explain that these are not students of the European Union, but rather students from outside the European Union, who have other characteristics and do not belong to this aggregate. I have to say that in the CDS we directly disagree with the indexation of these tips to the national tip, since it is estimated artificially, without any connection to any variable related to the cost of teaching. For us, a Chinese student, American, Mexican, Brazilian who chooses to come to Portugal to study in higher education, to invest in his future, must pay a value close to the real cost of studying at that university, in that cycle of teaching, and that is not the same value for all universities or polytechnics. Clearly, this is what we stand for, without prejudice to any more favourable bilateral agreements to which we have nothing to oppose. On the other hand, on a good integration of these students, on their de facto access to indirect social action or on the predictability of costs, throughout the course of studies for which they are enrolled, of course we agree. On the NAP project, which clarifies the rule of the State Budget extending the deadlines for the delivery of theses and dissertations, although legally a complex situation, it seems to us that the legislator's spirit was in fact this. Therefore, this project makes sense, even because what is coming to us is that the assumption of this principle is not being made in the same way by all universities and polytechnics. Therefore, there is good to be a clarification and a cross-sectional view throughout the system about this extension. Finally, I leave a word about support for researchers and competitive processes in times of COVID-19. We follow up with the formulation of the Greens draft resolution, which basically says that this funding must become regular, calling for the transparency of the FCT in relation to scientific and R & D employment competitions. The initiative seems to us well and we have nothing to oppose. The same can no longer be said about PCP projects, which automatically extend, and cross-sectionally, with incomprehensible deadlines, all scholarships and all situations. However, we understand the exception of Article 8. the, because it is indeed reasonable that the FCT had suspended the deadlines for submission of applications to R & D project contests and to the CEEC in accordance with Law No 48. In any case, the cross-sectional and too broad formulation of the PCP bill does not allow us to follow it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u265	You're six months old!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u266	In conclusion, on the issue of the end of the research scholarships, we regret, but it is a disintegrated proposal, disregarding the financing and logic of the system itself. Because of the way it's put, obviously, we're not going to follow her.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u267	You now have the floor to speak, Mrs. Isabel Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, as never before, we realize the importance of science and scientific research. The COVID-19 pandemic exposed the country's structural problems and it was for the science that the country and the world turned in the search for a response to block the new coronavirus. In unprecedented speed in history, the development of the vaccine revealed a vigorous victory of science. Never in history had witnessed such a rapid evolution of science. Portugal was no exception and, from the beginning of this pandemic, we have witnessed an effort and unmeasured dedication by our scientists, in the most various areas — engineering, chemistry, mathematics, sociology, economics and political science — all of them united in this common mission. Infarmed meetings also gave priority to science. Finally, a short time ago — it is true — the government created the task force, composed of scientists, so that the message to the population on the measures to be taken is effective. Mrs. Members, science and research are not done without people and, in many cases, are made with obvious personal sacrifices and in the development of their careers. The country has not yet properly recognized the efforts of many of our researchers, despite the role taken by scientists in science and these have been part of the solution. They have not been treated very well by the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education! The scientific community is in shock with the very low approval rates of projects and competitions promoted by the FCT, classifying these percentages as the highest investment in science. For example, they consider that the approval rate of only 5, 3 % of the eligible projects of the CI & DT tender of all scientific fields is the worst result in 20 years, i.e. 95 % of the projects were not approved and only one in 20 projects deserved that approval. Another example is the competition for scientific employment, where only 8, 2 % of applications were financed — 91, 8 % were excluded. Only one candidate in every 10 deserved that approval. We are talking in the two largest national science and technology competitions promoted by the FCT. What about the regularity, transparency and evaluation criteria of these competitions? How can an investigator work on a long-term project without knowing whether it will have continuity, if the opening and the results of the contests are always a true incognito? The lack of transparency and the instability of the evaluation criteria for the projects submitted to the FCT has already been assumed by the Minister of Science, who has promoted changes in the new funding framework. It is urgent to clarify the exact situation of the researchers, since the large number of applications for the various tenders and the very low approval rates seem to demonstrate that the various available mechanisms are not working. The PSD believes that it is necessary to move forward with the reform of the FCT, following the best examples of European and international congenerous agencies, making it a truly independent agency with administrative, organisational and financial autonomy. A good scientific and innovation system depends on the high performance of all those involved and, in particular, on the comfort of all researchers with their place in the system. Science and scientific research are a fundamental factor for the future of the country. Ensuring the sustainability of this system is essential. The PSD accompanies the concerns expressed in the various initiatives currently under discussion, but we do not follow some of the same paths to try to respond to the challenges posed by a genuine appreciation of research and innovation. A society based on science and knowledge will certainly guarantee a promising, sustainable and socially just future for future generations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u269	I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Aragão of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Goes long to session; tired but committed, which is what is important. The six projects we have discussed at this point have, in fact, as Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said, quite different natures, which makes the discussion a little difficult. It adds to them the scientific system and the academic system, but separates them the very specific scope of the different proposals. However, the discussion we need to make cannot be taken away from the overall vision and the clear objectives that we have set out, whether to reach 3 % of GDP in research and development in 2030 or to continue to extend the basis of higher education and to ensure that its frequency is the norm rather than the exception. In any case, the positioning of our scientific system and our higher education system is the result of the internationalization effort that makes it increasingly robust. In recent years, we have completely changed the paradigm of scientific employment. We have separated the working context from the training context and, on this option, as is practical in the best scientific systems, we have no doubt. On the one hand, it became the contract of work as the rule in relations between doctoral researchers and the institutions in which they are integrated. In just a few years, we will fully invest a pernicious stock exchange system—more than 6000 contracts effectively signed since 2017. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u271	On the other hand, it has become clear what are contexts of advanced training — doctoral and pre-doctoral — that it results, in fact, from the Statute of the Fellowship, approved in 2019. And yes, with total frontality and in response to the CFP proposal, the pockets should not have a legal-laboral relationship, where a hierarchical dependency relationship is always present,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u272	Yes, it must be precarious, without contracts, without conditions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u273	Listen quietly, Mrs. Deputy. But they must have appropriate scholarships to ensure the autonomy of the training process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition to limiting the Statute to training contexts, the grant period was also adapted to the training cycle. All these options are, in fact, concomitant with conditions that have been sought to create: the regularity of competitions, their predictability, the timely definition of criteria. Much of this work results from a deep discussion with the entire scientific system at the beginning of 2016. The stability of policies is central, and in this area even more, to the results that are intended to be achieved. I give two examples. A decade ago, Mrs. Isabel Lopes, the candidacy of projects in all scientific fields did not open in two consecutive years, despite the pandemic, as expected, in due time and in advance with regard to the dates of submission. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u274	in the same way, it is today a reality the annual update of the value of the scholarships and the continued effort to increase the number of fellowships in doctorate. This integrated vision has allowed us to build a system that attracts more and more researchers and students from other parts of the world. In fact, we are receiving more and more foreign students under the Statute of the International Student. But let us be clear, Portugal guarantees the same public education service to all students, regardless of their manner of access, their nationality or the type of training they seek. What is in fact different forms of access. We cannot deal equally with situations that are different from the beginning. And in this diversity, it is up to foreign citizens who, within the legitimate scope of their life options, choose the quality of Portuguese higher education for their training and therefore we dedicate a special quota to them. Finally, I would like to remind you that, despite this, we have very specific situations for both the students of the European Union, either for the PALOP (African countries of Portuguese official language ), from which we have received more than 6000 students in recent years, either for the students we receive under the specific and bilateral protocols, or for students under the protocols with the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation or with the Camões Institute. There are certainly aspects to improving, Mr President, but the results have been achieved, and this is the way we want and we will continue to follow. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u275	Mr Ventura then has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is difficult not to see science today in a scenario of enormous fragility and precariousness. But I must tell you, Mr Bruno Aragão, that we can defend the government by saying that we can avoid the precarious situation because the contractual bond has a subordination relationship is anything from the other world. I would also like to say the following: Mr President, I told you that we have reached a historic peak in research and development expenditure. That is true, but he did not say everything: he did not say that this effort was not due to the state, but to the companies, which last year increased the investment in research and development by 10 %... [[PS protests.]] ... and that between 2015 and 2019 increased it by 51 %. It is very ugly that the Socialist Party comes here to say "see the historical result we have achieved there" when it knows well that this is not the result of it. This is the result of companies, which have mobilized around research and development. But since they are so excited, I will remind you of the words of Antonio Costa in 2016 in the Christmas message: «It is fundamental, imperative to eradicate precariousness in science». So how is it that only 9 % have been included in training contracts? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u277	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u278	How do less than 50 % still have the possibility of having a stable position, when your Prime Minister in 2016 said he wanted to end the precariousness in science? Oh, my God! They laugh about it now, it's worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u279	To close the debate, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In practice, Portugal has been committed to advanced training of doctors, despite the distance that separates the national reality from the European average. However, the underfunding of science and higher education has led to the frequent forced immigration of doctoral researchers, whose work in Portugal is excessively dependent on funding of the FCT or low regular and unpredictable framework programmes, especially since the opportunity of integration into the research career is minimal. The precarious work of scientific research fellows is perpetuated by the current financing model, contrary to what Mr Bruno Aragão attempted to believe. The lack of investment and opportunity to integrate into the scientific career, the social deprotection of fellows with employment contracts that integrate companies and research units, the waste of human resources, the time and money invested in the preparation of applications solidly based on already developed works, or that it is urgent to develop, the discontinuity at the level of research lines and the organization of research teams, all of these are factors of devaluation of science that it is important to revert to the quality of scientific activity developed in Portugal. That's why, sirs. Members, what the Greens reiterate is the call for support for this project, which recommends that the Government intervene in order to ensure higher levels of funding, greater transparency and the uniformization of the criteria for the evaluation of applications, as well as a greater speed in the allocation of funding funds. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u281	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this point on our agenda. The following points, such as those of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. You know, you don't have time assigned, but you're going to let me announce it. of the tenth point is draft Law No 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ) — Amendment to Law No 77 / 88 of 1 July, published by Law No 28 / 2003 of 30 July, and amended by Laws No 13 / 2010 of 19 July, and 55 / 2010 of 24 December. of the tenth point 1, the Proposal for Law No 80 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Includes new psychoactive substances in drug definition. of the following point is contained in Draft Law No 595 / XIV / 2. a ( BE and PAN) — Extension of the validity of the Independent Technical Observatory. We shall now turn to the last item on our agenda, which consists of a vote on the Rules of Procedure. First, we have to vote on the draft vote No 525 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by BE, PEV, PAN, PS, PSD, MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira, PCP, CDS-PP and MP not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Despite the death of Maria da Conceição Moita. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to allow me to read it myself: « Maria da Conceição Moita died on March 30, a prominent Catholic militant who was committed to fighting for freedom against dictatorship, peace against colonial war and justice against inequalities. Born in 1937, Mary of the Conceição Moita was one of the most prominent citizens in the Catholic field, who, from the 1960s onwards, and under the renewed impulse of the Second Vatican Council, withdrew from the previously undisputed support of the Church to dictatorship. As she herself stated, the horizon for fighting, together with Catholics such as Nuno Teotónio Pereira, Francisco Cordovil, Luís Moita, her brother, or the priests Alberto Neto or Happiness Alves, among many others, was that of ‘a more open and attentive Church to the problems of time, at the service of people and of the world, not a closed and allied Church of the political regime. ’ And he added: ‘ We realized that it was not enough for each one to change his own life - style in order to have a change and that a clear implication on the part of Christians in the political struggle was fundamental. ’ in this context of contestation to salazarism and colonial war, through numerous concrete actions in which political intervention and evangelical foundation joined, Maria of the Moita Conceição came to be one of the organizers of the vigil for the peace of the Rat Chapel of 30 December 1972, one of the most emblematic initiatives carried out by Catholics and Catholics in this field, having read the declaration that called for the 48 hour prayer for peace vigil, assuming the commitment of two full fasting days, as a protest against the war situation in Portugal, in solidarity with their victims and against the absence of condemnation by the Catholic hierarchy. He was arrested by the PIDE on 6 December 1973, tortured, subjected to prolonged isolation and was in prison in Caxias until the Revolution of April 1974, being one of the strongest faces of liberation on 26 April. Already in democracy, it marked many important moments of democratic participation and was present in the creation and dynamization of movements such as ‘ Christians in Permanent Reflection ’ or ‘ Christians in Socialism’, as platforms of awareness of Christians for the need to mix with all citizens for the consolidation of freedom and the fight against social injustice. She was a childhood educator, a high school teacher and the Lisbon Higher School of Education, with outstanding work in adult education, community animation and teacher training. He worked in the ‘ The Ninho ’ movement, welcoming prostitutes. Until his death, he always maintained an intense activity in citizen initiatives and in various Catholic movements. A woman from April died, a woman who, about freedom, wrote that ‘we do not want her just a few more years ’. She, freedom, ‘ came to stay and we only have to defend forever. It is a condition of democracy that is the regime that enables us to live together in dignity. ’ The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of the fighting and fraternal woman who was Mary of the Conceição Moita and presents her family with condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, are present in the family galleries of Maria da Conceição Moita, to whom, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I present a word of great respect and comfort. Let us therefore vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 526 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by the PSD ), despite the tragic rail disaster in Taiwan. I would ask Mrs Helga Correia to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last April 2, for the 9 hours and 30 minutes local, occurred in Hualien, eastern Taiwan, a tragic railway disaster. This accident — the worst kind of accident in Taiwan in the last 70 years — has killed more than 50 passengers and caused more than 170 injuries. Apparently caused by human failure, the release and removal of the vehicles affected will force intense medical and technical intervention for several days, such was the violence of shock. The brutal impact of the battle and the results of the battle have motivated international dismay and will leave profound marks throughout the Taiwanese people, whose President Tsai Ing-wen decreed three days of national mourning. All the above, the Assembly of the Republic expresses to Taiwan its deep regret over the results of this dramatic accident and presents its sympathies. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u283	Thank you very much, Secretary. Two representatives of the Taiwan Office of Representation in Lisbon are present at the galleries, to whom we present a word of great respect and condolences. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No 530 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD ), regretting the death of Antonio Almeida Henriques, who will be read by Mr. Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last Sunday, in Viseu, António Joaquim Almeida Henriques died, 59 years old, victim of COVID-19. Almeida Henriques stood out as an example of determination, ambition and combativity in everything involved. Activist optimist, he always wanted to make different and leave a personal mark on the projects in which he participated as political and associative leader. Professional lawyer, it is in the business world that performs much of his active life. Entrepreneur since his early years has been involved in numerous business projects and his association spirit has led him to stand out as President of the AIRV, between 1994 and 2002, President of the CEC-CCIC, between 2002 and 2010, and Vice-President of the AIP, between 2005 and 2010. The recognition of the merit of his entrepreneurial dynamics led him to be grateful in January 2006 with the Order of Civil Order of Agricultural, Industrial and Commercial Merit. It maintained a very active participation in various cultural, social and scientific institutions in the city and region of Viseu. Soon it is involved in student associations, where it takes the first steps in political intervention. The principles and values of social-democracy lead - at the age of 14, to join the PSD, its party of always - as proudly always emphasized - that it was a dedicated militant and where it performs various positions of local, regional and national relevance. Member of the Assembly of the Republic, between 2002 and 2013, earned the respect and admiration of parliamentarians from all political quadrants, being Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group, Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Vice-President of the OSCE Delegation. Elected by the electoral circle of Viseu, of which he was the head of the list, he strongly defends his district and the interior of the country, always in search of greater justice and social and territorial cohesion. He serves as Deputy Secretary of State for Economics and Regional Development in the XIX Government, led by Pedro Passos Coelho, in a period of intervention of the troika and enormous difficulties for the country. Love of your land leads you to leave this position to apply for the President of the City Council of Viseu, office for which it was elected in October 2013 and where it leaves a strong digital impression. In its two mandates in front of the city of Viseu, it proudly implements a strategy for the territory under the motto ‘Viseu First’, divides new horizons, catapults the municipality for the challenges of innovation and the future and keeps Viseu with the best chance to live. Also in the local context, he performs the functions of President of the Municipal Assembly of Viseu, President of the Intermunicipal Assembly of CIM Viseu / Dão-Lafões and Vice-President of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. You can't talk about Almeida Henriques without remembering the man of an authentic family. The family was his greatest pride, his shelter, his passion, and where he found all he needed. Viseu and the country lost one of their best. May his example serve as an incentive for the construction of a more just, more fraternal and more humane society. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 9 April 2021, approves a vote of regret for the death of Almeida Henriques and presents sympathy to his family and to all those who deeply feel his absence. Do not keep on seeking. ” The family of Almeida Henriques is located in the galleries: the wife, Cristina, and the sons Gonçalo, Ricardo and Beatriz, as well as the President of the Chamber of Viseu, Eng.a Conceição Azevedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedro Alves. On behalf of the entire Assembly of the Republic, I would like to send to the family members of Antonio Almeida Henriques, such as the President of the City Council of Viseu, my condolences and a word of great respect and great comfort. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the votes that we have just taken, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 529 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Culture and Communication and signed by a Member of the PS ) — Greetings by the World Theatre Day. The Presidency of the Commission has annulled the suspension of reading this draft vote. Let us then vote on the deliberative part. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We then voted the deliberative part of the Voting Project No 533 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by PSDP and PS Members ) — Condemning the acts of extreme violence and horror in Cabo Delgado, Mozambique. We also have the announcement of their presidency for the exemption from reading the draft vote. Let's vote for the deliberative part. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote of the deliberative part, whose draft vote will not be read either from the Draft Vote No 534 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by Members of the PSD and PS ) — Condemning the departure of Turkey from the Istanbul Convention and the backwardness in the protection of the rights of Turkish women. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Before we proceed to the following votes, we need to ratify the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies in respect of a diploma that has already been published, Bill No. 732 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Renewal of the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of masks in public spaces, extending for the second time the validity of Law No 62 -A / 2020 of 27 October. After his approval, he was published, but there was a lapse of our part in that we did not authorize the final writing waiver, which actually occurred. We are going to ratify formally. [[Pause.]] With no objection, the final drafting dispensation is approved unanimously. This is how you heal this incident. We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 20 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the amendment to be added to Article 8. the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted in The Hague, on 6 December 2019. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote in general in the overall specialty and in the overall final vote, the Bill No 74 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to lay down rules for the implementation of Regulation ( EU) 2017 / 2394 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the application of consumer protection legislation. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and abstentions of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote of requests submitted by the authors of the initiatives, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, of the following diplomas: Bill No. 710 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Clarifies and simplifies procedures for the submission of candidatures by groups of electors to local authorities'bodies by making the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of local authorities' bodies for a period of 15 days; Bill No. 690 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Regulation for the election of holders of local authorities'bodies ), as regards applications proposed by groups of electors for a period of 30 days; Bill No. 719 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By replacing the conditions of civic and electoral participation of the citizen ( the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August and the sixth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ) for a period of 15 days; Bill No. 694 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensures the suspension of the amendments limiting the candidature rights of small parties and groups of electors, approved by Organic Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 21 August, during the year 2021, and makes the tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August for a period of 15 days ; Bill No. 715 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates an exceptional and temporary regime, in the context of the epidemiological situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the disease COVID-19, to reduce the number of tenderers necessary for the submission of candidatures of groups of citizens to the general elections for local authorities to be held in 2021, as well as the twenty-third amendment to the Election Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, and the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the Election of the Bodies of Local Authorities for a period of 30 days ; Bill No. 728 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Alter the Electoral Law of Local Authorities (Tenth Amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August) for a period of 15 days; Bill No. 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Act regulating the election of holders of local authorities'bodies in respect of special ineligibility ( tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August 2001, which regulates the election of holders of local authorities'bodies as amended by Organic Law No 5 -A / 2001 of 26 November, 3 / 2005 of 29 August, 3 / 2010 of 15 December, and 1 / 2011 of 30 November, by Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July, and by Organic Law No 1 / 2017 and 2 / 2017 of 2 May, 3 / 2018 of 17 August, 1 -A / 2020 of 21 August, and 4 / 2020 of 11 November ), for a period of 15 days ; Bill No. 757 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-attached Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the political participation of groups of electorate citizens for a period of 15 days; Bill No. 759 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — eliminates the day of reflection and amends the voting periods for a period of 15 days. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 984 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare and deliver to the Assembly of the Republic the studies necessary for the introduction of non-existenceal electronic voting in accordance with Article 8 (2). the Organic Law No 3 / 2018, of 17 August. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and the abstention of BE.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 613 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Fourteenth amendment to the Statute of the Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões, votes against the PS and the NAP abstention.]] This diploma falls to 14. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 636 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PAN) — Determines the possibility of a temporary replacement of Members in the event of an election of President of the Republic, of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, of a member of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira or of an organ holder of the local authorities ( Tenth Amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS Vice-President Simões and PS and PCP abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 14. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 638 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amendment to the Statute of Deputies concerning the suspension of the mandate ( Tenth fourth amendment to the Statute of Deputies, approved by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões, votes against the PS and the NAP abstention.]] This diploma falls to 14. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 1032 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government diversify the acquisition of vaccines against COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u286	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u287	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u288	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u289	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1072 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government defend the lifting of vaccine patents against COVID-19, making them public and universal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will now vote, in general, the Bill No. 584 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Determines the identification of all fees charged to taxpayers and the elimination of unfair and unjustified rates. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions against BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No. 626 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Transparency mechanisms are established in respect of rates charged at the state level and local authorities, and ensures the independent technical assessment of counterparties associated with the collection of each of the rates existing at the state level. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP and PEV abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 72 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Determines the non-repercussion on users of municipal transit and subsoil rights rates. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote of the requests submitted by the authors of the initiatives, asking the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory for a 30-day vote of Bill No 723 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Establishment of the legal regime for the protection of the urban tree, 733 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Defines the management criteria of the public urban tree and the mandatory establishment of municipal regulations, 734 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Creates the regime of protection and expansion of the urban tree, 741 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Approves the legal regime of protection, conservation and promotion of the urban tree and 748 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Instruments for managing shrubs in urban areas. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 907 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — By valuing scientific research and by the end of the work precariousness that reaches the Research Fellowships. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstention of the PS.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 610 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the status of the international student of higher education ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 36 / 2014 of 10 March ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 727 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to support workers of the National Scientific and Technological System. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] The general vote of Bill No 736 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the protection of international students enrolled in public higher education institutions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 753 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Clarifies the extension of the deadline for the submission and presentation of theses or dissertations by means of an interpretative standard of Law No 75 - B / 2020 of 31 December 2020. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. The general vote is followed by Bill No. 758 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — Legal arrangements for the hiring of scientific research personnel in training. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Let us now proceed to the general vote, in the overall speciality and finality of Bill No. 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ) — Amendment to Law No 77 / 88 of 1 July, published by Law No 28 / 2003 of 30 July, and amended by Laws No 13 / 2010 of 19 July, and 55 / 2010 of 24 December. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against PS MP Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u290	I'm asking for your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u291	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u292	To announce that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u293	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote, in the general speciality and overall finality of the Bill No 80 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) - Includes new psychoactive substances in drug definition. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We continue with the general vote, in the overall speciality and finality of the Bill No 595 / XIV / 2. a ( BE and PAN) — Extension of the validity of the Independent Technical Observatory. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 942 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government maintain and strengthen the 365 Algarve programme. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 5 PS Members (Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos and Luís Graça) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u294	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u295	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u296	Mr President, it is to announce that Members Ana Passos, Francisco Pereira Oliveira, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos and I will deliver a statement of vote on this vote myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u297	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Resolution Project No. 1069 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Planning and anticipation of defining in the culture sector, whose point vote was requested by PS. Let us begin by voting on points 4 and 8. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions by the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let us now vote on the remaining points. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u298	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u299	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u300	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u301	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Lara Martinho, do you ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u302	Yes, Mr. President. It is to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u303	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, is it also for the same purpose as asking for the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u304	It is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the vote on this initiative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u305	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u306	Yes, Mr President, to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u307	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. When there is no opposition, we shall vote jointly, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos. 181 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new primary school( 2 ). o is 3. the cycles) of the Trafaria, 977 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the 2 Basic School. o is 3. the cycles of the Trafaria, in the municipality of Almada, 1018 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the 2 Basic School. o is 3. the cycles of the Trafaria, municipality of Almada, 1036 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the 2 Basic School. o is 3. the cycles of the Trafaria, municipality of Almada, and 1068 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By requalification of the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the cycles of the Trafaria, in Almada. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] These diplomas fall to 8.The Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u308	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u309	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u310	Mr President, it is to announce that the Members elected by the electoral circle of Setúbal, in which I am included, will present a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u311	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 999 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — To protect cultural heritage from the risks of agricultural and forestry production activities. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and PS, CH and IL abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1110 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — By safeguarding the archaeological heritage at risk in the context of agricultural and forestry production activities. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and PAN abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1130 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — The duty to defend and preserve the national archaeological heritage in the agricultural field. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against CDS-PP and PS and IL abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1146 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to safeguard the archaeological heritage. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against CDS-PP and PS and IL abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u312	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u313	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u314	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will make a statement of vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u315	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1160 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — By promoting knowledge of archaeological heritage in Portugal, by its valorization, safeguard and preservation. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PS and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma falls to 12. the Commission. We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 859 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government implement the determinations of the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment (DGAEP) and make use of the General Law on Public Works, with a view to ensuring the applicability of the old-age holiday increase to the workers of the extinct factories of the army. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We now have the vote on draft resolution No 1050 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the internalization of the radiology service in the Local Health Unit of Upper Mining. [[Subject to the vote, votes were cast against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 2 PSD (Eduardo Teixeira and Emilia Cerqueira) and PSD, CH and 3 PS (Anabela Rodrigues, José Manuel Carpinteira and Silvia Torres).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u316	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u317	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u318	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that Mr Teixeira and I will present a written statement of vote on this vote and the following vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u319	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We then proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1053 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Internalization of Imaging Workers of the Local Health Unit of Upper Mining. [[Subject to the vote, votes were cast against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 2 PSD (Eduardo Teixeira and Emilia Cerqueira) and PSD, CH and 3 PS (Anabela Rodrigues, José Manuel Carpinteira and Silvia Torres).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u320	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u321	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u322	Mr President, it is in order to clarify a question relating to the next vote. We had a discussion at the Foreign Affairs Committee on draft resolution No 1148 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ) — Recommends that the Government develop all the efforts with the EU and the UN to send a humanitarian mission to support Mozambique ( Cabo Delgado ), in strict respect for the sovereignty of that State. In the committee, he said that he would present a replacement text, but there is no indication to that effect, at least in the system does not appear. We would therefore like to know whether it entered or not, because the original text contains several mistakes. I wanted to know if we're going to vote on the amended version.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u323	Mr President, what I can tell you is that the Bureau is not aware of any amendments, so I am giving you what is in the script. But Mr Ventura may clarify it quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u324	Mr President, I can confirm, as Mr Pedro Filipe Soares said, that there would indeed be an amendment to be made. The Bureau had no indication of this, so we asked for this draft resolution to be removed from the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u325	This initiative is thus withdrawn from the vote. We then proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1106 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — A General Deposit Box at the service of the national economy and the country. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u326	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u327	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u328	Mr President, it is to inform us that we intend to make an oral vote on this vote and that it will be made by Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u329	All right, Mr. Deputies. At the end of the vote, we will then have an oral vote. Let's now go to the Resolution Project No. 1128 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — By implementing the recommendations of the Court of Auditors concerning the transparency of contracts covered by the exemption scheme. There is a requirement of the Socialist Party to vote separately on point 1 and point 2. We thus begin by voting point 1 of draft resolution No 1128 / XIV / 2. a ( IL). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are now voting on point 2 of the same initiative. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also have the vote on draft resolution No 1147 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to enable citizens/parents of nomadic communities to obtain a citizenship card and exercise of rights equal to those of other citizens/. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the CH.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1080 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends the integration of homeless people with severe mental illness into the priority groups of the Vaccination Plan against COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We are now continuing with the general vote on draft resolution No 939 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government measures for conservation and environmental recovery and biodiversity of marine prairies, sands and macroalgae forests and the inclusion of these ecosystems in climate policy instruments. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] Down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1159 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — The need to integrate the preservation of marine biodiversity into port infrastructure works. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] Down to 11. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No. 1179 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government value the importance of continental coastal ecosystems in the instruments of conservation policy and sustainable use of marine resources. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] Down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1089 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government publish legislation on pollution prevention and soil remedy — ProSolos. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It therefore drops to 11. the Commission. The next project to vote, in general, is Resolution Project No. 1175 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government publish legislation on pollution prevention and soil remediation — ProSolos — and strengthen inspection and monitoring actions. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am told by Mr Nelson Peralta that, unfortunately, draft resolution No 939, which appears on page 34 of the vote script and which has already been voted on, is attributed to the PCP, being in fact the authorship of the Left Block. I just wanted to correct that information, which was wrong in the script. We continue with the votes and next project to vote is draft resolution No 1090 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the national interest, against tax schemes and the authorization to divest dams granted by the State to EDP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u330	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u331	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u332	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that we also want to make an oral vote on this vote and that Mr Duarte Alves will also do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u333	All right, Mr Duarte Alves has already been inscribed, which will make the two oral statements on a continuous basis. We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1177 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends the Government to make the declaration of nullity of the transfer of six hydroelectric uses ( Miranda, Picote, Bemposta, Foz-Tua, Low Taste and Wizard ) from EDP to Engie. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now have the final overall vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 253 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the public response to palliative care, 256 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — By extending palliative care, 282 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal, 284 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently strengthen beds and palliative care teams in order to ensure national coverage in both hospital and household services, 291 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthen the state response in the area of palliative care, and 304 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the national palliative care network and support for patients, their families and informal caregivers in a specific context of palliative care. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We now have the final overall vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 756 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the realization of a national register of type 1 diabetes, 764 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Sharing of insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices, 768 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Extension of free access to insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices — insulin pumps — for individuals aged 18 years, 824 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Regulation of the sharing of insulin pumps and improvement of the procedures for the placement and distribution of devices, 830 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Regulation of the arrangements for the sharing of insulin continuous infusion devices, and 838 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By strengthening patient care with diabetes. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 473 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age and 498 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the Charter of Digital Rights and a set of additional measures to ensure that citizens' guarantees in the digital field are strengthened. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, PEV, CH and IL abstentions.]] The final overall vote concerns the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication on draft resolutions Nos 890 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the comprehensive, adequate enhancement and integration of the monumental set of Islamic archaeological structures located in the Lisbon Seys cloister, 924 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Safeguarding, museuming and valuing the Islamic Monumental Set of the Lisbon See, 934 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the urgent completion of the works of the Patriarchal See of Lisbon in order to ensure the necessary stability and integrity of the building and the safeguarding of Muslim remains in the clauses, 952 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — The preservation and museological integration of Islamic archaeological remains in the Lisbon See, 960 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends full safeguard, enhancement and integration of the monumental set of al-Ushbuna medieval al-Ushbuna mosque in the Lisbon See Clause, 974 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Patriarchal See of Lisbon - Recommends full disclosure of opinions and projects relating to ongoing recovery and valuation works and safeguarding structural security, and 1005 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the safeguarding and valorization of recent archaeological findings in the Patriarchal See of Lisbon, ensuring their use by visitors. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] After the vote, we shall then proceed to the two oral explanations of vote indicated by the CFP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, for the first of these explanations of vote, concerning draft resolution No 1106 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — A General Deposit Box at the service of the national economy and the country, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presented a draft resolution on the situation of the General Deposit Box ( CGD ). Why did we introduce this initiative? Because in 2020 the cash restructuring plan, imposed by the European Union and accepted by the Government, ended, and the Assembly of the Republic must not be excluded from an assessment of this plan. The balance sheet is frankly negative: closing of counters all over the country, removing populations from access to banking services, reducing the market share of Caixa, attacks on workers' rights, imitation of private banking practices, instead of a differentiated action and governed by criteria of public interest. But the biggest example of these practices is the growing increase in banking commissions. Even last week we learned that several banks, including the Box, are preparing to increase banking commissions, with the excuse of the initiative approved at the Assembly of the Republic, which prohibits fees on the MB Way and other platforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u335	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u336	The fact is that the Assembly of the Republic can continue in the race of the cat and mouse, prohibiting or restricting certain committees, but the bank, with the support of the Banco de Portugal, will soon find ways to increase other committees and maintain the very high level of commission supported by the Portuguese. There is only one way to significantly lower the commissions across the bank, it is the CGD to assume a role as market regulator, lowering its commissions, thus influencing the entire banking market and forcing the other banks to lower them too. That is what the CFP also proposes with this initiative. Mrs. Members, having completed this disastrous restructuring plan for 2017 - 2020, will be discussing a new strategic plan. What the PCP advances, with this project, is that it imposes a change of direction, in the background, a General Deposit Box managed by criteria of public interest. And, at the time when the appointment of a new administration is also soon, it is necessary to have a government committed to the public interest, which the administration of Paul Macedo was not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u338	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor again for an oral vote by the CFP on draft resolution No 1090 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the national interest, against tax schemes and the authorization to divest dams granted by the State to EDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u339	Mr. President and Mr. Members: In recent months, much has been said about the sale of Douro dams by EDP (Energy of Portugal ) to Engie, a business of more than EUR 2200 million that EDP seeks, through a tax planning scheme, to exempt from any tax payment. More than one year ago, in February 2020, the CFP presented an initiative to prevent this transaction. Yes, stop, because the government has the prerogative to prevent the sale of parts of the concession.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u340	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u341	At the time, we presented fundamental reasons, which remain: the segmentation of the ownership of fundamental assets for the electro-producer system by several private foreign capital companies, without connection to the country, calls into question energy sovereignty, management of flows and freshwater reserves and puts an obstacle to the need for the recovery of public control of this strategic sector. At the time, the project was rejected with the votes against PS, PSD, CDS, IL and Arrival, and the NAP's abstention. More than a year has passed, to the fundamental reasons that stand still, the events that are in sight of all of us. The tax scheme of EDP and Engie, endorsed by the government, the legal proceedings on dams, which led to the exit of Antonio Mexia and Manso Neto from EDP and which advise greater caution in business involving precisely concessions on dams, are reasons that are added to energy policy issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u342	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u343	PSD Members, who speak so much and even send letters to the Public Prosecutor's Office, have today returned to vote against this initiative, which is the only solution to prevent this ruinous business for the country, scandalous, from the fiscal point of view, and unfair to the people of the Miranda lands. For the PSD, in February 2020, it might be too early. Now, it'll be, perhaps, too late. But the fact is, when there is the opportunity of the Assembly of the Republic to give a clear signal to the Government that it must use the prerogative that allows it to prevent this sale, even more so with what is known today, they have rejected this initiative again. Indeed, Mr. PSD members, when lobbies « uivam », the PSD places rape in the bag. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u344	Ended with the two explanations of vote, Secretary Nelson Peralta will do his best to announce the name of the Members. Members who attended the plenary meeting by video conference. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. I note that Mr. João Azevedo Castro, elected by the electoral circle of the Azores, and Mr. Olavo Câmara, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, both of the Socialist Party, were present by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-08.u346	It is now necessary to take into account the agenda for the next plenary session, which will take place on 14th, at 3 p.m. Thus, from the first point of view is the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency, from 2 to 16 March 2021. In the second point we will have the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency, with their vote at the end of this debate. of the third point is Bill No 77 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1986 and 1991, without time for discussion. The fourth point will be considered as Law No 79 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Extension of the value added tax exemption for intra-Community transfers and acquisitions of goods necessary to combat the effects of the COVID 19 pandemic. of the fifth point is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 95 / XIV / 2. a — Approves special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code, as annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January 2008, the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals, as annexed to Law No 15 / 2002 of 22 February 2002 and Decree-Law No 200 / 2008 of 9 October 2008. In the sixth, and last, we will appreciate Petition No 7 / XIV / XIV / 1. a ( Juliet Areal and Silva Calvet da Costa et al.) — Traps No: to prohibit the manufacture, possession and sale of trappings for birds, together with, in general, Law Projects No. 625 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Promotes the prohibition of the manufacture, possession, use and sale of devices intended to capture wild birds not subject to kinetic exploitation and 651 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Determines the prohibition on the manufacture, sale, purchase, use and import of traps and other devices used for the illegal capture of wild birds, and Resolution Projects Nos 863 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures aimed at the protection of non-cinegetic wild birds and 994 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Protection of non-cinegetic wild birds by strengthening monitoring, sensitization and monitoring measures. This concludes our session today. Thank you to all and to all your / our stoicism and to all and to all I wish a good night and a good weekend, until we meet again next week. Good health. The session is closed. [[It was 21 hours and 40 minutes.]]
