ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we begin our work, I request the Secretary of Bureau Sofia Araújo to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning to all of us. I inform the House that they have entered the Office of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, and have been admitted, the Draft Resolution Nos 1497 / XIV / 3. a ( ENP) and 1498 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us start our work with the joint assessment of Resolution Nos 32 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the amendment to the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Member States of Economic and Monetary Union, held in Brussels on 27 January 2021 and 8 February 2021, and 33 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the amendment to the Agreement on the Transfer and Exchange of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Member States of Economic and Monetary Union, made in Brussels, on 27 January 2021 and 8 February 2021. To open the debate, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr. Augusto Santos Silva, to whom I would also like to congratulate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government shall submit to the Assembly of the Republic two European agreements for subsequent ratification by the President of the Republic. We are talking about two very important instruments in supporting the Member States of the European Union and the European banking system created following the 2008 international financial crisis and the 2010 sovereign debt crisis. The agreements in question review these instruments in the light of the lessons learned in the meantime: first of all, the lessons of these crises themselves and the economic recovery prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the lessons of our reflection on the need to reform and conclude the Economic and Monetary Union and the economic governance system of the European Union as such. With regard to the European Stability Mechanism, the proposed amendments aim to strengthen their role as a cautious support, thus preventing crises and supporting Member States in response to adverse exogenous crises, improving mechanisms for cooperation between the European Stability Mechanism and the European Commission, in particular in the design and implementation of adjustment programmes, and thirdly clarifying the role of the European Stability Mechanism as a support mechanism for the Single Resolution Fund. This allows me to turn to the second agreement, which concerns precisely the Single Resolution Fund and its support mechanism, the so-called 'backstop'. This is basically about strengthening the role of this important fund in supporting bank resolution when this is the only possible solution, failed alternative solutions, from the very start the recapitalisation of these banks. As we all know, this mechanism is financed by contributions from the banking system itself and so far it worked in a logic of mutualization limited to ex ante contributions. With this amendment this logic of mutualization is extended and therefore the operationality of the fund is strengthened. These two amendments were signed during the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which had two important results with regard to the economic governance system of the European Union, which I would like to stress to conclude my initial intervention. The first result, which stems directly from the social commitment of the Port and the declaration of the informal meeting of European leaders, which took place in Porto on 7 and 8 May, and which endorses the proposal presented in the action plan for the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights, means that the indicator panel for the assessment of the economic performance of the Member States now has to also include indicators of social performance. The second result was the launch of the debate on the Maastricht rules, so on the revision of the Stability Pact. In 2020, the European Commission and in 2021 and 2022, the Commission and the Council suspended the application of these rules relating in particular to deficit and public debt. We must prepare in time for the revision of these rules and the last day of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It was precisely the occasion for this debate to be launched at the Recovery Summit in Lisbon, which we hope will have concrete and positive results during the French Presidency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u5	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Government brings here the theme of reform of the European Stability Mechanism. And as for the European Stability Mechanism, it is important to say that the NAP has a number of criticisms that we believe do not have a response to this reform. First of all, the European Stability Mechanism, in demanding very hard assistance programmes for the change of financial aid, represents a certain idea of Europe which, rather than relying on solidarity and assistance, focuses on a logic of social insensitivity, repression and punishment, which separates countries, with divisions between the rich and the poor, between good students and bad students, between the righteous and sinners. Unfortunately, our country, like Greece, well knows the social cost of these assistance programs and how much suffering has brought to millions. Moreover, the memory of this social cost remains present and was visible at the credit lines created by the European Stability Mechanism as a response to the crisis caused by the COVID-19, to which no country in the euro area had travelled until the end of November 2020, which according to the Fitch Agency was due to stigmas associated with this mechanism and to the perception that this loan would entail excessive conditionalisms. But, in fact, it doesn't have to be that way. The pandemic context, for example, proved in the acquisition of personal protective equipment and vaccines that the European Union could be much more than the troika, could be solidarity and act with positive impacts on people's lives. However, this reform clearly did not learn the lessons that the pandemic has given, does not correct this repressive model and, worse, even gives the European Stability Mechanism a greater role in designing and monitoring future assistance programmes. Secondly, this is a mechanism which, by focusing essentially on saving banks, ends up having insufficient scope. We do not ignore the weight of the banking sector in the economies, but there is more life beyond the bank. And here too, the lessons of the COVID-19 have not been learned. If in the COVID-19 the mechanism created credit lines that allowed to combat the social and economic effects of the health crisis, why was this model not used to guarantee an instrument to finance other types of crises? Third and last, this is a mechanism marked by opacity and lack of scrutiny. Here the maximum of Friar Tomás is fully applied: « Look at what he says, do not look at what he does. At the same time as the European Stability Mechanism imposes a short net on states that need their support, it is a structure that is not subject to the scrutiny of the European Parliament, a body representing the citizens of the European Union, and works in an unacceptable opacity in a context where the corollary of transparency is increasingly a fundamental element of our democracies. In view of this, because the NAP understands the usefulness of this mechanism for safeguarding national economies and is not a European party, we will abstain from this vision, stressing the need for Portugal to be beaten in European institutions by a mechanism that puts solidarity in the face of punishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u7	For an intervention, Mr. José Mendes of the PS has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is something this century has taught us, the world is subject to crises of a different nature that put some of the critical systems that support our economies in difficulty. The European Union and Portugal are no exception, as the financial system is no exception. This is why the European institutions have been creating and operating crisis management mechanisms, providing timely and effective support for the macro-financial stability of the Member States and the euro area in particular. The European Stability Mechanism, established in 2012 by multilateral international treaty between the Member States of economic and monetary union, is precisely designed to support States entering economic and financial difficulties that could threaten the stability of the euro area. The importance and strengthening of the European Stability Mechanism were unequivocally reaffirmed with the participation of the Portuguese Government in the Euro 2018 and 2019 summits, where the reform and updating of this mechanism was agreed. Therefore, the instruments of careful financial assistance were reviewed in order to extend the effectiveness and opportunity of responding to financial crises. But the most important new feature of this amendment to the European Stability Mechanism is its adaptation to the requirements of banking union, in particular the possibility of providing a temporary line of credit to support the Single Resolution Fund. Today we also appreciate an amendment to the agreement on the transfer and mutualisation of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. In order to ensure the possibility of resolving any bank in one of the Member States, after having exhausted other possibilities, including internal recapitalisation, the Single Resolution Mechanism should be based on contributions from the financial sector itself on a mutual basis. This amendment to the Agreement shall be preceded by the deadline set for the full mutualisation of contributions from the financial sector of each Member State within two years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be borne in mind that the European Stability Mechanism has as its basic thrust the observance of the budgetary and macroeconomic supervision framework, in particular the Stability and Growth Pact. in this context, the policy and growth path that the governance of the Socialist Party has shown to be possible and compatible with the 'true accounts' makes Portugal a full partner to participate in such an important European mechanism. If we exclude the years of the pandemic, which have disruptively affected the economies of all countries of the world, the macroeconomic variables of the country have evolved very positively since 2016. Thus it was with GDP growth (gross domestic product ), deficit, debt and unemployment. Never in this century had Portugal converged with Europe as it did after 2016. It is because we feel comfortable with a solidarity Europe that the Socialist Party's bench will vote in favour of these two motions for resolutions. But this comfort does not mean immobilism. European construction is a process, and it was clear at the social summit in Porto during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union that the social dimension necessarily has to enter the European lexicon. If it is true that the 'true accounts' are a condition of departure which we should not devalue, it is also true that progress in the well-being of the population should be considered. For this reason, the Portuguese Government has been well guided by the inclusion of social indicators in the European Semester's board. After pandemic, this is still a time with many unknowns. In Europe, with the Maastricht rules suspended until 2022, it is an opportunity to look at them and assess whether they are suitable for the stability of the Member States in recovery. Economic and financial Europe will only make sense accompanied by social Europe, and although we do not yet know what will be the verdict of the Portuguese voters in the elections we now know will happen, I am sure that who will be better able to interpret this social Europe in the European concert will be a government that looks at people and their needs, the same is a socialist governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u9	Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members : I confess that the two interventions we have just heard clearly give a notion, I would say, of consensus with regard to the importance of the instrument we have in our hands, the stability that it gives to the country and the difference between reality today, with the economic impacts of the COVID-19, and what would be the reality if there were no such mechanisms. Moreover, the memory of the last crisis that the country has gone through has made it clear to us that, without this kind of mechanism, only what would be the cost of its own interest to be paid and the time and maturity to which we would be obliged would lead to the situation being completely different. Therefore, it is clear that this mechanism gives us peace and time, but time does not stop counting. So when Mr Mendes heard about certain accounts, I have to ask what accounts are, because, during the last six years of political agreement on the left, there was a set of accounts that were left out of the Budget. This mechanism would allow for reforms in justice and tax requirements. I would allow you to change the country where you need to change, but you have decided not to change. To speak in certain accounts when one forgets a part of the country's accounts, to speak of a social policy when one forgets a part of the country, in a budget that begins to be negotiated at the center and the centre navigates to the left, with all sincerity, is only to speak of the missed opportunities that this mechanism would allow to take advantage of. It is therefore essential to know, indeed, to look at the future and make this kind of mechanism to be used in the country so that there are the profound changes that it needs. That, yes, is to make Portugal, being framed at European level, take advantage of this solidarity to make the changes it needs. It is true that we are not just discussing ideological options, we are talking about addressing the problems that the country needs to solve. We may have different views on labour law, about what is necessary in justice, but not to discuss what is necessary in justice and labour law is to waste the tranquility that this mechanism gives our country. And since Mr Mendes spoke in legislative elections, it was clear that we are going to legislative elections because this opportunity has so far been wasted. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u11	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The motions for resolutions submitted by the Government a week ago seek that the Assembly of the Republic should approve amendments to the agreements establishing the rules of two of the mechanisms that make up the set of instruments associated with Economic and Monetary Union, i.e. the euro. They are the European Stability Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund. When the CFP opposed accession to the euro and when it continues to affirm the need for the country to free itself from submission to the euro, it is also this kind of mechanism that we are talking about. In the context of the banking resolution, where the Single Resolution Fund is inserted, what we have is the transfer outside the country of decisions on the largest Portuguese banks, whether in supervision or in a possible bank resolution. The European propaganda around the idea that taxpayers would no longer be called to pay is all about propaganda. This is because nothing, in the agreements and treaties, or with these amendments, guarantees these objectives. On the contrary, the expressions contained in the agreements are much less binding than propaganda. They speak of an effective resolution regime that should minimize the costs to be borne by taxpayers and with minimum costs for taxpayers and for the real economy, that is, something very different than advertising that there is no more costs for taxpayers. In fact, the amendments proposed here show precisely the opposite and again deny this propaganda about banking union and European resolution mechanisms. The truth is that the euro and the banking union mean that the Banco de Portugal remains a mere branch of the ECB ( the European Central Bank ). They mean insistence on the independent so-called supervisory model that has already shown its failure throughout the line at BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), BPN ( Banco Português de Negócios ), Banif ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ) and in other cases. They mean an embarrassment to the need to take public control over the bank and even to the fact that the public bank assumes a strategy at the service of the country's development, particularly in support of productive sectors, because it is subject to the same rules as other banks, although it can and must have a different role in the banking system and in the national economy. The European Stabilisation Mechanism is a kind of IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) at the euro level, either by the objectives proclaimed, or by its real intentions to use the blackmail of debt, particularly countries such as Portugal, to impose the destruction of social and labour rights and social regression with the so-called « adjustment plans ». And now it also serves, with these changes, to pay for cleaning banks that have problems. The euro is this: subjugation and backwardness! Twenty-two years of euro, twenty-two years of stagnation, because we have a currency according to Germany and therefore outpaced the size of our economy. Twenty-two years of loss of budgetary, monetary and exchange rate sovereignty mechanisms that resulted in greater dependence and unacceptable constraints, such as the imposition of restrictive budgetary policies and the obsession with deficit that marks the action of both PSD/CDS governments and PS governments. Twenty-two years of deepening privatization, twenty-two years of deepening the country's structural problems, with demographic, productive, energy and food deficits. Twenty-two years of divergence instead of the promised convergence and, by the way, millions to the bank at the expense of the Portuguese workers and people. The amendments to the agreements we are discussing today are part of the deepening of these mechanisms associated with the euro, that is to say, they are contrary to the need to free ourselves from this genuine vest of forces which do not serve Portugal, nor the peoples of Europe. [[PCP and PEV MP Mariana Silva applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u13	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are today discussing instruments that are, in fact, important in the construction of a common banking system and that have to do with the European Stability Mechanism and also with the Resolution Fund. With regard to some of the things that have been said here, I must say that we cannot systematically want the best of two worlds. The single currency, the existence of only one currency for a number of countries is a reality that has indeed consequences, and has consequences with advantages. In the Portuguese case, at some points, anyone who questions it never explains that the purchasing power of Portuguese would be much lower if we were not in the single currency. This is the reality that, who criticizes, always leaves aside. However, it also has disadvantages and unpleasant consequences. We can't have the best of two worlds! A single currency which also has a banking system which necessarily has to work together has consequences. We can call into question the single currency, but we cannot pretend that if Portugal had still listened to it, there would be no other kind of consequence, in particular if we started to face a crisis of 'producing currency', that would make us come into a serious inflationary process. in the same way, a debt of the size of Portugal would cost much more money if we had our own currency, because we would not have the policy of the European Central Bank. We need to look at these things together and with realism, without bricks. As regards the deepening of these rules, which is what we are discussing today, I think it makes every sense that, if the rules are European, the consequences and the way they are faced also have a European participation. That seems obvious to me. We have seen that in Portugal at many times this did not happen, because the reality is that banking interventions were made according to European rules, but then correspondence was for national accounts only and not for European accounts alone. This does not completely correct this, but it takes a small step in this direction. I stress that when I talk about European consequences, I often see the idea that European funds do not seem to be Portuguese either. Europe is funded through its Member States and through its citizens. I therefore treat with equal respect the resources that are Europeans, but I understand that difference. Finally, I must also say this: often in the application of the rules by the European bodies, especially by DG Comp (General Competition Directorate), an interpretation of these rules, which seem correct to me, is made in a deeply incorrect way with regard to the bank. Often, the way in which DG Comp or the competition authorities in Europe interpret the rules leads directly to the absence of a Portuguese bank and the impediment to the existence of a Portuguese bank. This is because the European institutions are apparently convinced that in practice banks should be the Iberian or European dimension, which is translated into Portugal, i.e. « Spanish ». I believe that Portugal must fight in the European bodies so that this interpretation does not go ahead. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The European Stability Mechanism is not the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). They are not funds that we use to invest in reforms in the country. The European Stability Mechanism is the son of the troika and does not solve any of the problems we identified in the troika, which was in fact destroying the European Union, its credibility and its legitimacy before the people, giving good help to the growth of extreme-right populism in the European Union. We continue to have a technocratic institution, established by intergovernmental treaty, which does not respond to the European Parliament, which does not comply with the rules of democratic scrutiny, which exists only to centralize conditionality rules in the event of the need for financial support to a country in crisis, whether that support during the crisis or in a cautious manner and therefore before that crisis occurs. This is when the euro area countries no longer have any way of avoiding it, because they are deprived of their fiscal and monetary policy mechanisms and in a European area which only aggravates structural differences. This is not to learn from what happened to COVID, that is the opposite of what happened in the response to COVID, in which the budgetary rules were suspended and in which there was no conditionality in the allocation of support for reforms that was necessary. It is therefore proof that the European Union has learned nothing. Do you need to legitimize? Here. It needs to change some formulations, some arguments, but it has learned nothing about the errors of its institutional structure and the errors of its institutions. What is being done here is to strengthen the rules of the CFP (the Stability and Growth Pact) which were already absurd—it must be one of the most contested aspects of institutional rules, which is known worldwide. It reinforces the rules of the European Semester, insists on the allocation of powers to institutions that are not democratic, insists on the imposition of conditionalities, which, as Mr PAN says, is indeed a repressive and punitive policy. What I don't understand is how one party can abstain from voting on a mechanism that imposes a repressive and punitive policy on another country! It is a mechanism that is obsessed with the past and sovereign debt crises—and we do not know if the next crises will be sovereign debt! Even I would say that the European Union has done very little to prevent new sovereign debt crises, because most of them have to do with financial systems, with repurchase agreements, with the collateral used in these repurchase agreements, and all this continues to work as well as as as it does. So we are as exposed as we were before to a new sovereign debt crisis. It is not a solution, it is not solidarity, it does not guarantee stability, it does not guarantee to combat structural differences. It is a mechanism of subjugation of the national states, which are forced to abdicate sovereignty which, to see it, thought it was a value of the CDS, but that it has ceased to be in the meantime! We have the States to be forced to abdicate their sovereignty and their democratic decision-making space. Some people think the euro is this. Some believe that having a single currency compels us, as a community, to abdicate sovereignty and democratic decision-making space and to accept punitive and repressive policies. That is not the position of the Left Block, it is not the position of a set of critics of these rules. Finally, with regard to the Single Resolution Fund, it has long been said that there is a need for a backstop and support from the European Stability Mechanism to the Single Resolution Fund. The deadlines and values now presented to us are useless in dealing with a systemic banking crisis at European level. They are useless because neither the return will be made between three and five years, as the Government of the Socialist Party well knows, because it extended the loan of 20 years, when it happened in Portugal, nor 68 billion are enough to deal with a banking crisis at European level. What it does at national level is to end the possibility of recapitalising a bank to subject all national banks to the rules of the Single Resolution Fund. However, the resolution is not the end of the line. Once a bank is declared at risk of bankruptcy, there are two hypotheses: resolution or settlement. There is, however, a novelty, because who decides is not Portuguese, who decides is not the Portuguese State, it is not Portuguese democracy. We don't think this is an answer for the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u17	For a second intervention, Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u18	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the PRR is part of a European response and we, in order to be included in the European project, as the honourable Member will well know, we cannot only demand, we have to negotiate. Of course, then, each has his own style, his own vision, and also his way of negotiating, and I confess to him that the way of negotiating, which we have already seen in the Hemicycle, has given the result that he has, still recently, with the State Budget. Let us hope that in the future the country will have better results with other State budgets. But there is no European project without being able to negotiate, and it is therefore crucial that we know how to strike a balance that will enable the country to be able to enter into a European project that at the moment gives us stability. This point is fundamental for us to understand how we design the country in the future and to have time to draw the country in the future and touch the points where we have to play. [[PSD applause.]] It is essential to make clear the idea that you have a vision of the European Union which is very difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u20	They have a vision of the European Union which is not the same as ours. It is legitimate that you have yours, but challenge it to something different, Mrs. How would you implement this vision that you have, and what have you explained so far? We would probably not be in the European Union and probably the country would be much worse. Madam Member, your negotiating powers have led to this point, which is that of the country without a budget, and I think that your negotiating powers at European Union level would have exactly the same result, that of a European Union without a budget and without having to help its Member States. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u21	To close the debate, accumulating the time still available for the closure, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you for giving me four final comments. The first comment is as follows: I know and respect the position of those who oppose economic and monetary union, but that is not the position of the Government, it is not the position of the majority of Parliament nor is the position of the vast majority of the Portuguese people. We are involved in the European Union, we are involved in economic and monetary union and therefore we are involved in the processes leading to the construction or revision of the instruments of economic and monetary union, but we are not there passively. We are in economic and monetary union by actively contributing to the completion of the economic and monetary union and, at the same time, reformed it. Reform of economic and monetary union is needed. Reform in the system of economic governance is needed, and hence the importance of social indicators becomes part of the European Semester. It is necessary to strengthen and reform the common rules guaranteeing a minimum of common budgetary and financial discipline, and hence it is so important that the Portuguese Presidency of the Council has started, with regard to the revision of the Stability and Growth Pact, the revision of the so-called Maastricht rules. It is also very important to move forward, not only in the mutualization of losses but also in the mutualization of benefits, that it has been absolutely founding, now, another result of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council, i.e. that after all the Member States have ratified the new decision on own resources of the Union, the European Commission has launched the largest ever loan, EUR 20 billion, on behalf of all of us and guaranteed by all of us — therefore, the first joint European debt issue worthy of that name. And we still need to add automatic stabilising mechanisms, also at European level, including European unemployment insurance insurance, as well as a European term deposit insurance. So being in monetary economic union and committed to deepening it also means fighting for its reform. The European Stability Mechanism is very well where it is, as a last resort we can make, but to which we do not want to resort. In the meantime, we also made our way and, last year, in the first answer to the first economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, what did the finance ministers do? The Finance Ministers decided to set up a new programme, the SURE (Support thee the mitigated Employment Risks in an Emergency), of financial support to the Member States in what they had to do to ensure that the economic crisis did not mean the destruction of the business fabric and the loss of employment. Therefore, the SURE programme has been very important, and I have no doubt that it will have medium- and long-term consequences in the European Union. It was also very important to double the funds available at the European Investment Bank for support to Member States, and this meant that no Member State has used the third instrument available, the European Stability Mechanism, because no Member State has needed it, since at the same time European leaders have launched the New Generation programme and the recovery and resilience tool, which is exactly the logical opposite of the operation of the European Stability Mechanism. Where the European Stability Mechanism was associated with austerity programmes, the New Generation programme is associated with investment programmes; where the European Stability Mechanism was regulated by a single revenue imposed by troika logics, the recovery and resilience instrument materialises at different national levels approved by their governments and Parliaments.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u23	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u24	I conclude, Mr President, with only one comment, if I may. Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho, the last thing we need is the European Stability Mechanism to change Portugal. Go away! To change Portugal means to continue with the reforms that we have been making: increase of minimum wage, increase of indicators of performance of the education system, increase of frequency of higher education... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] That is why the European Stability Mechanism is very well where it is in the freezer of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u25	We have thus concluded the first item on the agenda. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to report something that I forgot yesterday: at the Leaders' Conference, there was only agreement to hold an election, from today to eight days, which is exactly the election of the Ombudsman, since he finished his term on 2 November. Therefore, this election is scheduled for Friday next week. We will turn to the second item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of the Ombudsman's report on the year 2020. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To say that the year 2020 was atypical is an euphemism with which we have learned to deal, understanding that the health crisis has had a huge impact on the various dimensions of people's lives. This impact was reflected in the number of complaints received and in the work carried out by the Ombudsman during 2020. Examples of this were the problems related to the payment of incomes, the difficulties of family members in situations of social vulnerability and the living conditions of people in situations of homeless people, particularly because of the difficulty in complying with the existing health protection rules. On a proposal from the NAP, Parliament responded to this problem and adopted an initiative for the integration of homeless and severely ill people into the priority groups of the Vaccination Plan against VOCID, minimizing the individual risk and public health. The report also points to the difficulties in accessing institutions to host these people, and this is a problem for which the NAP has brought as essential proposals as the housing-first programmes enshrined in the 2020 and 2021 budgets. This report leads us to believe that there should have been more clarity in the approved exceptional legislation and more technical support for its recipients. Even though it was much more necessary, the NAP also proposed and was able to approve the creation of an official simulator that would allow businesses and entrepreneurs to perceive, in a simple and immediate manner, what the most advantageous support for their situation. However, the Government has never complied with this proposal. It is important to remember, as Mrs Provedora has warned, that Providence does not substitute for courts. We cannot overthrow the work of Providence, using it as a response to the lack of means of administrative courts and their inability to guarantee swift and, therefore, adequate justice. The Ombudsman does not serve as a palliative to an excessively long judicial power and often inaccessible to most citizens. It is not even possible to be seen as an alternative way of resolving disputes. The report also states that Provedoria is often called upon to intervene in situations of practices which call into question animal welfare, in particular the continuous use of currents which limit the physical activity of animals, its accommodation in brooms which do not have conditions that guarantee shelter under adverse climatic circumstances or poor conditions of hygiene of places, as well as complaints about errant animals found on the public road and the abandonment of animals, referring to — and we quote — "an important issue to reflect and resolve", to which this House has already had the opportunity to discuss, through the NAP proposal, and may conclude the legislative process that is in particular. Therefore, just as it is expected that the Public Administration will comply with the recommendations of Provedoria, it is also expected that the other political forces will follow the NAP's initiatives in these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u27	I have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every year, and only to contextualize, the Ombudsman shall submit an annual report of activities to the Assembly of the Republic. The constitutional status of the Ombudsman requires that, every year, the Portuguese, through their representatives in the Assembly of the Republic, be given an account of their work, but the mandate of the Ombudsman has two dimensions: the general questions, which concern the assessment of their complaints; and, in the scope of their constitutional vocation, is also guardian—or guardian, in this case—of the National Mechanism for Prevention against Torture and other cruel, degrading and/or inhuman acts. With regard to the complaints submitted, we need to contextualize the document that has been submitted to us by the Ombudsman. The year 2020 was, as we know, very special. In the Ombudsman's Office last year more than 11 500 complaints have entered a historical record since the institution was set up. Interestingly, much of these complaints were directly related to the pandemic. The COVID themes accounted for 22% of the total problems reached by the Provider. It is also interesting to note that the Ombudsman has often been called upon to clarify doubts and to provide clarification to citizens. And we are not just talking about freedom rights, the citizens have sought to reach the Ombudsman about other dimensions of their life: from work to family, from school to trade, from companies to culture, from travel to social life, which shows an undeniable lack of planning for the management of the pandemic by the government when it has to be the Ombudsman to do this work. There was also a significant increase in the number of complaints about health, housing, education and public services, and, curiously, while the other essential services continued to work, in the Public Administration services we have always encountered an obstacle.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u30	But the resolution, on a case-by-case basis, should not prevent us from taking this report and from rethinking the issues of the system. We need to learn from everything that the Ombudsman has brought to us in this report.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u31	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u32	The pandemic, which, although controlled, has not yet ended, has only nude the enormous weaknesses of the country, which, apparently merely conjunctural, are, as we know, truly structural. And speaking in structural weaknesses of the system, as to the size of the National Mechanism for Prevention against Torture, Cruel and Dehumanized Acts, the Ombudsman brought us some data for reflection on the monitoring work he did at the prisons, at the educational centres for young people who, because of their age, are criminally unaccountable and temporary facilities for immigrants. The Government and the Assembly of the Republic will not fail to respond to the challenge that the Ombudsman has left us in relation to the Portuguese prison park, which lacks restructuring to avoid inhuman and degrading conditions. Speaking of this, I ask : where are the five new prison establishments planned since 2017? How have we coped with the problem of the shortage of human resources that today compromises, and much, the development of essential activities in prisons? With the pandemic, in prisons, like, in the rest of the contexts, the projects of occupational offer, presence classes and vocational training were suspended, at least where they were held. What about the rest? How are we reinstating our inmates? More than to punish, our prison establishments must be highly vocationed to reintegrate the person into society so that they do not commit crimes again. So that these public resources that we apply in our chains are seen and applied as a serious investment for a more just and more evolved society. Allow me, Mr President, to conclude, a final note addressed to the Ombudsman, Dr. Lucia Amaral, in the most competent and independent manner as she has exercised this four-year mandate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u33	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Ombudsman's reports are an annual portrait of the country beyond the official speech. And that is how we are confronted with reports coming from the Ombudsman year after year. They reveal to us a country in which prepotence and opacity makes the exercise of absolutely elementary rights effective, such as the rights that are inserted in each and every one's relationship with the tax or each one's or with the Public Administration, for example, in true baldness without exit. These reports reveal to us a country in which the talk about the good reception of migrants contrasts with the reality that these reports show in the centres of temporary installation. These reports show a country in which the emplomatic discourse on the fulfilment of human rights in Portugal contrasts, as has now been said, and very well, by Mrs Sofia Matos, with the daily newspaper of prisons and the daily prison system in general in Portugal. This, therefore, necessarily leads us as a country and as a Parliament to take a thought. This reflection is indeed suggested by the Ombudsman's own report: the Ombudsman is becoming increasingly and is increasingly seen as a substitute for both the judiciary and the good public administration, and cannot be. That is the great challenge we are facing. It is necessary not to be a substitute for a judicial power appropriate to the requirements of the present, where precisely the difficulty of access, expensive access, the slowness of justice, the intelligibility of decisions are an obstacle to the ability of the judiciary to effectively solve people's problems. And it cannot be a substitute for good public administration, a public administration which, most of the time, often too often, does not govern itself by a principle of dealing with problems with each citizen. It is therefore good that there are annual reports that show how the Ombudsman is a friend of the citizens, he is a listener of the citizens, but it is very bad that we are used to accepting these reports as a complaint and to perpetuate the mechanisms that these reports precisely denounce. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u35	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By subscribing entirely words that have been said here in praise to Providence, to his work and to the work, in particular, of this Ombudsman, which we had already seen as a very valuable and very important work on all that has been done, such as for instance in the case of Pedrogão, and which has led to justice being done — perhaps not as comprehensive as it would be necessary — to many of the injured and many of the victims of Pedrogão, we would highlight some aspects of this report that seem important to us. First, we highlight a significant increase, year after year, in the number of complaints. For 2019, we have an increase of 19 % of complaints, but if we go to 2017, the increase is already 48 %, and if we go back to 2016, we have an increase of 68% of complaints addressed to the Province. This can mean, at the same time, two things: on the one hand, that there are more serious situations and that there is a basis for these same complaints and, on the other hand, also a demonstration of some effectiveness of Providence in itself and its credibility, which obviously leads more citizens to address Providence by raising their problems or asking for justice. Secondly, it is also relevant to understand what these complaints are and what are, above all, the areas where complaints are most relevant and where they are dominant. And we have, indeed, in the field of public administration and public employment, the bulk of these same complaints: without surprise, we have a lot of tax matters, and also without surprise, I would say, particularly in the context of pandemics, health issues, social security and education. A fundamental aspect, and in which, I say, I am making some progress, concerns, for example, the issues of digitisation, especially in education, but also in the general public administration. In fact, there is inequality of treatment depending on the economic condition, or we are either on the coast or on the interior, thus dealing with a central issue that dealt with the Ombudsman. As it has also dealt with the problems of digitizing and modernising the Public Administration, the problem of how all citizens, including the least prepared, less trained or older, can deal with an administration which is no longer the traditional administration and which uses other means, especially the digital means, to interact with these same citizens. This is also noted in many complaints, and this is a relevant matter. I would also like to stress, and even to conclude, Mr President, that we also have a very worrying issue in social security: delays, in particular delays in the granting of pensions, a matter which we have raised here many times and which I think cannot be forgotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u37	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u38	One last sentence, Mr President, I am allowed, just to say that it is important what is said in relation to prisons, in particular with regard to the condition, treatment and dignity, and that much is due, throughout the Public Administration and in the prison system in particular, to the lack of means. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u39	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Very important things have already been said about this report. I would stress some of them, but I would begin by directing a compliment to Prof. Lucia Amaral for her performance as a Ombudsman, now that she is at the end of her term of office. I believe that we can say, as a balance sheet, that, with your intervention, you have prestigious this institution. Moreover, except for a period of impasse that we had a few years ago in the name of the Ombudsman, who was later resolved at the election of Prof. Alfredo de Sousa, I believe that the Portuguese State and democratic institutions have been happy in the election of the Ombudsman, who have, in fact, come to prestigious this State body and also to have a exemplary relationship with the Assembly of the Republic, to which - it must be said - the vicissitudes of the parliamentary agenda sometimes do not allow us to correspond exactly as desirable. This report contains very important data. It refers to a very atypical year, the year 2020, which is evidently marked by the epidemic with which we have been confronted, and also allows us to draw some comparisons between that period, with its abnormal character, and that which has been the evolution of the Ombudsman's intervention. There are some elements in this report that are very significant, namely the fact that there has been a significant increase in the complaints submitted — an increase of 18 % compared to 2019 —, this increase reflects a trend which has already occurred before the pandemic, to the point of saying that in five years the overall activity of the institution almost doubled. This may mean a number of things: that there is an increasing prestige of the Ombudsman's activity among citizens, that there is indeed problems in the relationship between citizens and the Public Administration and, vice versa, in the relationship between the Public Administration and citizens, and also that there is a lack of resolution of the specific problems of citizens in various areas, or of the relationship not only with the Administration, but also with justice, which makes an appeal to the Ombudsman, since this body actually responds to the citizens. Therefore, even when problems are not solved, citizens feel that they are not abandoned, that there is an institution that does not abandon them, and hence indeed the greatest recourse to the Ombudsman. It is significant to raise the major problems that have arisen in numbers: problems related to housing; problems related to the rights of foreigners, but the report states that they have come from behind, i.e. problems related to the regularization of people who have already entered national soil or to the allocation of Portuguese nationality, and which have worsened with the pandemic; increased complaints about health, education, in the field of work, both in the public sector and in the private sector, and also in the context of taxation and social security. Therefore, we have here perhaps a portrait of the most complex and serious problems that occur in relation to the realization of citizens' rights and that indeed lack more timely responses by the Portuguese State. the importance of this report, which allows us to make a balance sheet of what is needed to correct. Finally, Mr President, to underline, however, a fact referred to in Mr Provedora's report, which is the collaboration of the entities with whom the Provedoria is contacting with in order to resolve the problems. This is an aspect that needs to be emphasized and which, once again, reflects the great prestige that this institution has been producing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u41	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been reported that 2020 was a very difficult year for Portuguese and particularly demanding for State institutions and bodies. in that difficult year, the Ombudsman, was, on the other hand, a fundamental guarantee of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the citizens. The year 2020 was the year when we started to face the pandemic crisis, which has not yet ended, and it was the year when we also started to deal with the economic and social effects of the measures we had to take in order to combat the pandemic. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which owes it to the rule of law, greatly appreciates the role of the Ombudsman. It values it because the exercise of its function is characterized by independence from sovereign bodies, because it is the national human rights institution and because it performs the functions of a national preventive mechanism. All this together and the framework we are facing in 2020 is of greater importance to this report, which refers precisely to that year. Before entering into the analysis of the report, I cannot fail to address a word of recognition to the Ombudsman, but also to all the collaborators of the Provedoria, for the increased effort to which they have been called, and to which they have also responded last year through successive state of emergency statements. It is true that the report reflects the increase in the number of exposures submitted and the number of open complaints procedures, but the report also says that this increase has been accompanied by the growth of the elimination biases. Between 2017 and 2020, the primaryly archived exposures increased by 56 % and the net defaults of complaints increased by 59 %, which means that the administration is working better because more than half of the exposures and complaints submitted are not followed up. I wanted to say that, for us, each of the complaints and exhibitions presented to the Ombudsman is very important, because he has a person behind him and his problems. And I agree with Mr António Filipe when he said that we still have a lot to solve. But nevertheless, in a year of services provided by citizens, we have indicators that also allow us to have a different perspective. Let us not forget that it was a year in which we extended and innovated extraordinary support for the pandemic, support for Portuguese, businesses and families. I would like to see a few indicators in detail: in the context of the extraordinary support for COVID, support was given by 2020, 2, 5 million Portuguese, 155 000 companies in a total of EUR 2, 6 billion and 847 complaints were made—there are many, but they represent 0, 03 % of all Portuguese that were supported by 2020. In the context of pensions, which was also mentioned here by Mr Telmo Correia, who said that chaos reigns, I would like to say that 3 million have been processed and that 531 complaints have been filed, corresponding to 0, 02 % of the total number of pensions processed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the same percentage representing the 268 complaints submitted for 1, 1 million parental and family benefits. Now, you can't stop seeing this other side of the data. The report also gives a very important indicator, that of the records during the instruction was 53 %. With regard to the National Prevention Mechanism, I would like to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supports the concerns expressed, but we must not fail to point out that the report considers that the strategy followed by the Directorate-General for Resettlement and Prison Services has shown favourable results and that changes and restrictions on the deprivation of liberty have been necessary and balanced. This is fundamental for those who see themselves in a rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u43	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This 2020 annual report by the Ombudsman reflects a reality that is truly worrying. In 2020, the new processes opened by Provedoria beat all records, with increases of 18 % compared to 2019, and 68% compared to 2016. It is clear that these numbers reflect what they have been, and in many cases they are still the problems caused by both the pandemic and by measures to combat pandemic in such sensitive areas as housing, foreign law, health and education. However, it is important to stress, as Mrs Ombudsman did in this report, that despite the percentage of complaints concerning the employer State, the taxing State, the insurance State has declined percent compared to 2019, its absolute number has continued to rise. And it is essential to understand the importance of this fact, because the left-wing parties here in the House continue to act as though the maze of bureaucracy, the burden of taxes and the omnipresence of the state in people's lives were not a real obstacle to people's freedom. To feel suffocated by the State and not served as it should be is not a detail in the lives of Portuguese, it is not a detail and we thank the Ombudsman that, once again, with this report shows that the State has been too often part of the problem and not part of the solution. It is also against this that the Liberal Initiative will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u45	We have thus reached the end of the second item on the agenda. We will move to the next point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 20 / XIV / 1. a ( Teresa Mafalda de Aguiar Frazão and Gonçalves de Campos et al.) — For the defense and protection of horses, together with, in general, the Law Projects Nos 527 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Penal Code, exacerbating the penalty for anyone who inflicts ill-treatment on pets, 1000 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) — adequacy of the system of identification of equidae, making the first amendment to Decree-Law No 123 / 2013 of 28 August and 1007 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Improves the system of identification of functional ability of equidae and introduces the possibility of being registered as pets ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 123 / 2013 of 28 August ). To present the draft law of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP begins by greeting the petitioners and petitioners of this initiative, who alert and appeal to the Assembly of the Republic which reads for the effective protection of equidae. We know that, contrary to old times, horses today are used for various purposes and, in many cases, even are considered pets, so it is important to ensure that they can be registered as such. The times, it's true, have changed, but the legislation doesn't. In our country there is no guarantee of due protection and well-being for equidae, which, regardless of the purpose for which they are arrested, should be treated with all respect and dignity. The concern about the well-being of the equidae is a matter which has already been discussed in this House several times and on the proposal of the NAP, but today we have, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, one more manifestation of our civil society, and very well, which gives us this challenge. We have not been able in this House to adopt solutions, not because of the lack of NAP proposals that guarantee some protection to these animals, but because there seems to be no interest in putting, first, the dignity of these animals and ensuring their protection often before human cruelty. On the 12th day, on a proposal from the NAP, we will discuss the extension of abuse to other animals. Cases of abandoned horses, hungry or dead on the roadside continue to be a reality that must have all our indignation. This is not to mention the existence of illegal slaughter markets and horsemeat trade entering the food chain without any control that guarantees public health. We continue to see horses used in trains or carriages, without respect for their well-being, exploited, without any care, under high temperatures and often without any concern about their safety and well-being, without charge limits depending on the physionomy of animals, not even the time limit, or even without concern for road safety itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the gaps in our legislation is the lack of fundamental databases to enable the authorities to perform effectively, identifying and responsible for horse owners. The current national database does not effectively guarantee the registration and identification of these animals in our country, nor does it allow the authorities to do their work, namely the tracking of these animals, because it is outdated and because in this database there are not many of the animals in our country. In addition, this database is outdated from reality, not providing for equidae such as pet animals. We are talking about hundreds of animals that are not in the database and that have just had to be registered for another purpose, simply because legislation does not allow, therefore, its owners to distort reality, because the system does not recognize this status. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the NAP brings here a solution to improve the equidae identification system, going to meet the reality on the ground, which we know well, with the simple change in predicting the possibility of registering an equidae as a pet, since they are so often detained for this purpose. [[PAN's applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u47	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. To present the draft law of BE, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin my speech by congratulating, in the person of the first petitioner, Teresa Mafalda Campos, the more than 11 000 petitioners who addressed this House with the concern regarding the care and protection of horses in our country. This animal is a paradigmatic case that shows the contradictory construction of the legislation we have to protect animals. However, if we have come to develop several matters in this House in order to ensure the protection of animals, it is true that, by a conservative option, this House ends up legislating only on pet animals, which implies that we have legislation that is done at two speeds and that does not guarantee the welfare of pet animals, traction animals, animals used in shows or livestock. In practice, what happens is that these animals are subjected to abuse, which, in the light of the law of animal abuse, would already be punishable and in these cases it is not. Now, the horses have various functions, as has already been said, and one of them is precisely to be domestic animals. Therefore, the least we can do — and that is also what we propose — is to adapt the identification systems to the concrete reality and allow us to keep applying a law that protects them. We therefore propose improving the system of identification of equidae, enabling the registration of these animals as pets, adapting the law to concrete reality. This is therefore a very relevant change not only because it recognises this reality but also allows greater protection of these animals. This system has existed since 2013, provides for the registration of animals, their identification through documentation that includes their functional characteristics and fitness. in this register, precisely lacks the ability to identify as pets and, once again, the truth is that there are them. Another issue that needs to be adapted is the rigor of updating information and identification, communication to the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ( DGAV ) and proper identification, which is required not only to comply with the identification directives, but also, and particularly, to protect them. These are simple proposals that propose greater legal rigor, greater protection for animals that, while not included in this legislation, are absent from this protection radar and in a legal limbo. Limitation of protection of animals when target of ill-treatment to those who steal or meam does not fit to science or social concern and must begin to be overcome. What we propose is that we start here precisely, recognizing the concrete reality and the need for the protection of horses. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u49	To present the bill of arrival, Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is recognised today in Portugal that there are three major shortcomings in the legislation on this matter: one related to the identification and registration of animals; another related to its status, within the same legal problem; and another related to the sanctions regime in this regard. Regarding the registration of animals and their identification, the arrival will enable the project now presented by the Left Block, because it is a scenario of the most elementary justice. The country is living in an equidae situation which is probably not parallel in Europe. The way the horse is deformed, unidentified and left to complete abandonment throughout the national territory should shame a whole country. This is also what is intended to be done here today. at the same time, we seek to identify two areas in which criminal law can be altered without colliding with fundamental interests and legitimate interests of society. One of them deals with inflicting pain for no legitimate reason. We have the lowest fine in the European Union for these cases. We propose that it may be increased proportionately and in accordance with the system of our legal system. The same with regard to the crime of abuse of animals without colliding with the systematic of Portuguese criminal law. It seems legitimate, proportionate and appropriate and a step in the right direction of the Portuguese legal system.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u51	It already exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u52	I inform the Chamber that the petitioner Patrícia Pereira, who subscribes to the petition under discussion, is in the galleries. I take advantage of it to greet you. For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by thanking the petitioners for the initiative and signature of this important petition. I particularly thank the Movement for the Equines and the Movement Moved to 4 Legs for having created this petition, but especially for dedicating their lives to the rescue of horses and also of other animals. I wonder how many more times citizens and citizens will have to mobilize to demand what should be a priority in this House, i.e. to protect the most vulnerable. The episodes of severe horse abuse are unfortunately recurrent — they are assaulted, abandoned, left to starve and there is no penalty for these acts. It is urgent to reflect on what the parties in this House have to do to protect pets and leave the rest to their fate. In my view, there is no reason for this discrimination, because ill-treatment is ill-treatment, regardless of the species, and they must be criminalized. I therefore hope that the initiatives under discussion will be adopted and prioritized so as to enable the entire legislative process to continue to take place during this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u54	For an intervention, Mr João Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject which is being appreciated today, through the bills of law and petition, comes to note and emphasise that in Portugal there are indeed some situations of abuse, particularly in equidae. These situations, which happen, are timely, but in fact there are and are to be regretted. The virtue of this petition and of these projects is to come to make some contributions to the legislator and, essentially, to alert them to the effectiveness, or lack of it, of the means of regulators and regulators of the sector. This is an extremely important component because either the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary in Portugal or the supervisory officers, the police forces do not have the necessary means at the moment to act accordingly. But, if these bills have some virtues, they also have some trails, in particular they want to consider equidae as pets or, even, to require information about their functional fitness. Today, we have achieved, I think, an unprecedented fact in this matter, which was an approximation of the Reach to the Left Block, because for them the approximation of the functionality of the equidae has a very large deficiency and proximity. Now, especially these two subjects—to require information on the functional fitness of the equidae—have sinned because who knows and who is involved in the equestrian environment and among the horses knows that one of the great virtues of the Lusitanian horse, which must pride all Portuguese, is that of having exactly a great functionality, a great aptitude. The fact that a small elite, small groups want to condition the great majority to their tastes and pleasures is not correct. Therefore, the legislator should not at any time look at the tree to the detriment of the forest. I wanted to take advantage of today, because it is a very happy day for this theme: it is the day that begins, in Golegã, the National Horse Fair and the Lusitano International Horse Festival. It's in this place that you guys are. Members, authors of these bills, can contact the associations of producers, the creators, the Lusitanian horse in its splendor and realize that, in Golegã, the horses don't walk with truce, they don't steal, nor miam. The horses, in Golegã, are tied or sealed, with great pride both for the horseman and for the horses. Therefore, there is a very important challenge for this House: in the week of 5-14 November, they visit the real world, the world that is out there and that awaits the Members of this Nation's coherence and adjustments to reality. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome the 11 000 subscribers and petitioner Patrícia Pereira, as well as Teresa Frazão, who, in an untiring manner and in a laudable expression of citizenship, bring to this Parliament their concerns, with commitment and dedication, regarding the amendment of the legislation that safeguards the dignity and well-being of horses. I also welcome the proponents of Bill Nos 1000 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) and 1007 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE). I would like to say that these projects intend to introduce amendments to Decree-Law No 123/2013. This diploma is intended to lay down the rules governing the identification system for equidae born or introduced in Portugal, ensuring the implementation and ensuring compliance in the national legal system with the obligations arising from European Union regulations with regard to the method of identification of such animals. European legislation, through its regulations, already establishes that equidae are defined in accordance with its status as « registers », « creation and income » and « slaughter or cutting equidae ». According to the above-mentioned regulation, all equidae, when they are born, are suitable for human consumption, depending on the holder, the veterinarian, the competent authorities and the passport issuers to amend this status, either in the passport or in the National Register of Equidae. According to the identification procedures, registration or any change in the status of the animal or change of ownership, referred to in the passport, shall be already reflected in the national registration support database. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the functional ability of an equidae is not something definitive or static. An equidae can have various skills simultaneously throughout their lives: it can be leisure, sports, school, work or production. If, on time, they are used as pets, this is reversible and should accumulate with other functions. In our view, for the moment, there is no need for this to be found in the identification document.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u59	Since the need for the protection of equidae is a cross-cutting issue in most countries of the European Union, a working group was established within the framework of the European Union Platform for Animal Welfare, in which DGAV is also present. This group has the presence of some Member States, scientists, representatives of producer associations and aims to lay down common specific rules for these animals in the Member States, including the establishment of guidelines for good animal welfare practices for equidae. These guidelines will serve as a basis for the creation of horse protection legislation, with which we also agree. On the other hand, taking into account that the European Commission is awaiting discussion of the new Implementing Regulation establishing these rules, we argue that by then the rules applicable to the period for the identification of animals, the rules on equidae intended for slaughter for human consumption, the rules for the registration of medication and the rules on the format and content of the identification documents should be maintained. thus, it is considered that Decree-Law No 123 / 2013 of 28 August 2013 in force should not be revised until the new European provisions are known by the publication of the new implementing Regulation establishing harmonised rules on the identification of these animals in all Member States. Today, we still appreciate the Bill No. 527 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Amendment to the Penal Code, exacerbating the penalty for anyone who inflicts ill-treatment on pets. This initiative was launched as early as September 2020 and provides for an amendment to Article 387. the Criminal Code. However, Law No 39 / 2020 of 18 August introduced important amendments to Article 387. the, which goes even further than is proposed by the Arrival, so the proposed wording would, as explained by the Superior Council of the Magistracy in the opinion it presented, in the face of the progress already achieved in relation to the protection of pets, thus frustrating the desire to which it is proposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u60	It's absolutely out of line!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u61	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating a petition and tracing of legislative projects related to the protection and defence of equidae. First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who have allowed this opportunity. I address them by saying that, in fact, what we have read in the petition, there are aspects that need to be considered. However, by not agreeing or accompanying all its proposals, it is important to examine what is placed in it. From that point on, we understand and believe that the current legislation is adequate and sufficient for the protection of equidae and for what it represents in the welfare of these animals. Then we must take into account what also results from this petition, that is, the concern of being asked by the police authorities to do something that they clearly have no competence or skills to do, in particular what has to do with animal welfare. Animal welfare is guaranteed to be the target of those who have technical and scientific competence to do so, in particular DGAV and municipal veterinary doctors. It is here — I also want to tell the petitioners — that lies in the great problem, namely that of DGAV and that of municipal veterinary doctors are duly strengthened, either in human or technical means, to fulfil what is their role in monitoring and inspection on these matters. Regarding the projects under discussion, there is one concern that we should also take into account: it is a great mistake to generalise that animals, particularly the case of equidae, are generally targeted at maltreatment. It is important to say, in particular, for those parties which believe that these animals are subject to abuse and that, in fact, only now have initiatives in relation to the welfare of pet animals, which have long been the cause of concern for breeding, production and registration animals for their well-being, for their breeders and producers. What we have to say is that there is indeed no generalization. However, we do not hide that there may be maltreatments and that, existing these ill-treatments, because they also exist and are often known, we need to understand why they exist and it is about these causes and those reasons that we should be concerned about. Therefore, the law on abuse is already sufficient in our view and what is needed is to be concerned about what can be solved, particularly the situation with regard to strengthening the technical means. I would like to add the following, Mr. Members: the legislation is not omitted. The legislation already contains, either in terms of the counter-ordering regime or in terms of the Criminal Code, sufficient mechanisms for the prosecution of situations of ill-treatment. The truth is that there are very few court cases. And the question that we should raise, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, why are there very few cases in court? It can only be for two reasons: either because there are few cases of ill-treatment or because there are cases of ill-treatment, there are no conditions of supervision to bring them to trial. Finally, we have to mention something about the draft law of the Arrival, which is an initiative like those we have been used to. He wants a return to the past! By 2020, Law No 39 / 2020 of 18 August has already worsened the penalty by means of Article 387. the Criminal Code. And what Mr Ventura here has proposed is a law that, judging and justifying that it is increasing punishment, rather, what it does is to alleviate the punishment provided for in the Penal Code currently in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u64	You're always saying, "You're going to work! » but I say: work you and do the job well! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of DOS Verdes, I greet the petitioners who have subscribed to Petition No 20 / XIV / 1. a — For the defense and protection of horses, which today we have the debate, together with other legislative initiatives. The fight in defense of the planet is always hand in hand with the defense of ecosystems and environmental balance, with the safeguard and respect for animal life, wild or not, and for the rich biodiversity that we have inherited and we want to bind to future generations. Sensitious animals, and specifically domestic animals, are capable of feeling, showing affection, being shaped in the legal order that they are holders of a set of specific standards and regulatory mechanisms of sanctioning and protection. The contents of the petition we are considering today present a very broad set of concerns and proposals for equidae. This requires that the structures of the State, in particular the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, and the security forces, meet these concerns within their competences. These structures must ensure many of the complaints and must have human, technical and financial means to do so. You need to have technicians to ensure the supervision that you still have to do. They must have the means to install the shrines for equidae and other animals. This is a concern that the Greens have expressed, as we did in the debate on the proposal for a State Budget Bill for 2021, in which we proposed that the Government should promote the measures necessary for the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests, as a national authority for the conservation of nature and animal welfare, to establish a place for the creation of a temporary reception centre for wildlife animals, exotic animals, circus animals or other recovered animals, caught or captured in actions to combat animal trafficking, until their final referral. However, we insist that there is no proximity to problems, effective supervision and the necessary support if these structures are not equipped with technicians, budgets and materials necessary to carry out their duties. That is why it will soon be necessary to require resettlement sites that enable the animal to live safely, with good conditions of food, health and space, giving priority to natural environments, if, in addition to a law appropriate to its construction, we do not have adequate supervision, monitoring and referral. Although we recognize that it is always possible to improve legislation, the measures referred to above do not need legislative amendments nor so little respect for animals and the guarantee of their well-being needs to exacerbate penalties. To affirm the thesis of prohibiting, fineing and arresting does not solve the problems. Rather, it even gives a false idea that everything is solved, which can rest rest rest restless souls, but not much more than that. The animals that share our space and our daily life, especially domestic or work, are worthy of differentiated attention, because this proximity, in addition to specific problems, also brings with it an added responsibility that has to be fully assumed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u67	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin this speech by welcoming the petitioners who have submitted this petition, with their concerns about the abuse of equidae. In fact, this is not the first time we have discussed this issue of equidae abuse. Unfortunately, we know that they are a reality in Portugal and a reality that has to be fought. The big question I think is what is the best way to fight this type of abuse and the abandonment of equidae or their maintenance under conditions that are objectively cruel to animals. From this point of view, I believe that the solutions that either the Left Block or the PAN are proposing are not the most appropriate ones. As has already been said, particularly by the CFP, the legislation we have is appropriate to combat this phenomenon. The problem is that it is not put into practice. There is no supervision, there is no means and therefore these bad conditions continue. We believe that introducing into legislation the possibility that these animals will become registered as pets will not solve the problems of ill-treatment, because these equidae will probably not be registered as nothing — neither as pets, nor as production animals — which will create a new problem where it does not exist. The problem that exists is not in animals that are registered, are monitored and are being treated well, and are producing animals. The problem is precisely in those who are on the side of this and who live on abandonment or, not being abandoned, are treated with cruelty. Therefore, from our point of view, the solution that is being proposed is not a solution and creates a problem where it does not exist. in the same way, with regard to the amendment of the Penal Code, the idea of increasing penalties does not deserve our disagreement, but what is being done in this bill—and I draw attention to it—is moving in criminal frameworks. In other words, it removes some of the provisions of the article in question and then moves into criminal frameworks, increasing the maximum criminal framework, but eliminating the minimum ones. Therefore, in some cases, it may, in practice, result in a reduction in penalties for ill-treatment of pet animals, which I think was not the objective, but, in fact, that is what is being proposed. Thus, not agreeing with the idea, we cannot vote in favour of this explanation, because it is not implemented in the letter of the project. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u69	Mr. André Ventura is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u70	For an intervention, Madam President. I'm sorry, I didn't sign up, but I'd like to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u71	Do you wish to intervene to use the 32 seconds you have?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u72	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u73	Please, Mr. Deputy. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. It's just to explain something to Mr. João Dias. Since you want to discuss, let's discuss it, Mr. Deputies. I'll explain something you might not know. It's just that there are maximum, minimum frames... maybe you haven't studied much, but I'll explain. The current law speaks for a maximum of two years, aggravated by a third — learn this! — in cases of censorship or perversion. Our proposal sets a direct maximum of three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u75	Read the sound!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u76	Do you understand the difference? Or would you like me to draw you an explanation? The current law speaks in 240 days of fine penalty. The project of the Arrival speaks in 360 days of fine penalty. So next time you send us to work, remember to do the housework there on your bench, since you have so many Members to do the housework. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u77	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about different things. When we talk about pets, they have a different treatment, they have even a different legislation of maltreatment and does not apply to equidae. That is, from the very beginning, the bill that arrives does not respond to the needs that we are identifying. Not all pets are abused, it's true. Not all production animals are abused. But what is true is that pets are protected by law and production animals are not. When there are obvious situations — and we know that they exist — of ill-treatment, when there is a complaint in this regard and we want to resort to the law in force, the legislation does not protect these animals and does not even allow there to be a legal development in the protection against mal-treatment. By identifying this, it is up to us in this House to legislate on this matter. There are two proposals on this issue, there are no other proposals. It seems to us that it is essential to start working on this and to think about extending the law of ill-treatment to pets to all animals, because the fact is that, more or less, all animals end up being victims of ill-treatment and they all need the protection that must be granted through this Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u79	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of Petition No 200 / XIV / 2. a ( Ana Nascimento et al.) — Immediate access to Kaftrio® for patients with cystic fibrosis in Portugal, together with Resolution Projects Nos 1016 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures necessary for faster access to innovative therapies for patients with cystic fibrosis, 1054 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of support measures for patients with cystic fibrosis, 1060 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increased agility and speed in access to innovative therapies, 1067 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Access to therapeutic innovation for patients with cystic fibrosis, 1115 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — By making treatment time more suitable for patients with cystic fibrosis and 1119 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — It proposes access measures to medicines used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis. To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin this intervention by complimenting the petitioners, in the person of Ana Nascimento, a patient of cystic fibrosis, and also in his person, to comply with all patients. I also welcome the Portuguese Association of Cystic Fibrosis ( APFQ ) and the National Association of Cystic Fibrosis ( ANFQ ) for all the work done to improve the lives of patients and their families. This disease is a rare hereditary disease caused by mutations in the gene that encodes the synthesis of a transport protein. It is a multisystemic disease, affecting all organs that express this gene, particularly the respiratory and digestive system. In periods of pulmonary exacerbation or onset of complications, particularly pulmonary complications, there is indication of hospitalization. In the advanced phase of the disease, pulmonary transplantation is the only therapeutic option. The treatments available, before the approval of the modeling drugs, aimed only at controlling the disease. Nevertheless, this is a relatively unknown disease of the common people, until their mediation, that we all remember, through the request for help made by Constance Braddell, who, although having access to the medicine, died with complications in their health. Although posthumously, we want to leave you here, once again, a thank you, which we address to your family. As we have always said, citizens and patient associations have increasingly been actively involved in health policies. That is also what they did with this petition. Since we have been alerted to this problem, we have made a commitment to do everything in order to support the resolution or even the release of this problem, which is to improve the conditions for access to innovative medicines. Therefore, even before this appeal, and after meetings with the subscribers of this petition, specialists and patients, we immediately contacted the Government and Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ). On 26 February, we presented a draft resolution recommending to the Government "the adoption of measures necessary to speed up access to innovative therapies for patients with cystic fibrosis that they need, ensuring their marketing authorisation on the market and their public funding, in a fast and efficient manner, avoiding constraints on access to them", in order to thus respond to what the petitioners ask us and also to what we believe it is necessary to do. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was then, on 17 March, that petitioners in the Health Committee were heard, as well as other entities, such as Infarmed, who from the outset explained the process to which innovative medicines are being examined and approved. We recognize that there are aspects that, in our perspective, need to be improved to simplify and avoid redundancy. But despite this, we need to highlight the efforts made by the Ministry of Health and our medicine agency, Infarmed, to accelerate these responses, not only at national level but also at European level. When we started this process, we found in Infarmed the Kaftrio medicine and the medicines Symkevi and Orkambi, all modulatory drugs intended for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. Currently, all of the drugs mentioned are funded by the National Health Service ( SNS ). Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS has also answered this problem! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Symkevi was funded on May 18, 2021, Kaftrio and Orkambi were funded on July 21, 2021. And that was the deadline set for the hearing that we had with Infarmed and in which we questioned about this funding. And, yes, a SNS bought it! An infarmed bought it! The answer was given to these Portuguese who deserve the assistance of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also know that professionals, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they refer to this medicine as « a new age for the disease ». Many professionals point to the change in paradigm, passing from the treatment of symptoms so that cystic fibrosis becomes a chronic disease, in which you can greatly increase the average life expectancy of a patient who has this rare severe disease. With this decision, access to these medicines was increased instead of waiting for special authorisation through the early access programme. There are, as we know, five centres that treat this disease in Portugal and some 400 patients have been identified in a drug whose cost is estimated at about 140 thousand euros per patient annually. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these 400 patients deserve our attention and therefore the response of health institutions and also of this Parliament. Since 12 July Portugal has integrated the European network of centers of excellence of cystic fibrosis, the Reference Centre of the Northern Lisbon Hospital Centre is the second in the Iberian Peninsula. And, yes, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you had one of the highest rankings on the map of the reference centers! This was also one of the good news that arrived in the middle of the pandemic and that thus responds to the excellence of the public health service of the National Health Service in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For all this, we also have to greet the professionals who work in this area and in these rare diseases. But we have to value everything the National Health Service has achieved for access to innovative medicines, not only in this case, but also in all others, such as for example for spinal muscle atrophy. For the National Health Service, all efforts must be made to save lives and lives have no price.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u81	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u82	I shall now finish, Madam President, just saying that a new therapeutic indication of the medicine has been under review since 29 July 2021, which we hope will respond to even more patients. The National Health Service is, in Portugal, the guarantor of this response, because no patient can be without the appropriate medicine when he needs it. These are the words which, we believe, give meaning to our work and which defend everyone's access to medicines, even when they need the most expensive ones. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u83	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by greeting all petitioners. The Braddell Constance struggle, which died on July 11, at only 24 years of age, forced the country to look carefully at the disease of cystic fibrosis. This is a chronic and degenerative disease, which emphasizes the need to be treated as early as possible with innovative drugs, such as Kaftrio. This drug was approved by Infarmed on 22 July of this year, 11 days after the death of Constance, which leads us to a new reflection on the process of approval of these drugs. Everything could have been different if the approval processes of new drugs by Infarmed were not so loud. The requirement to repeat steps already met by internationally recognised bodies such as the EMA ( European Medicines Agency ) and the FDA ( Food and Drug Administration ) is not understood. The approval of an innovative medicine may take five years, too long for those who need answers to survive. That is why the NAP here brought in, and today we are discussing, under this petition, a draft resolution recommending all efforts for this approval to take place as quickly as possible. As a result of what was the enormous social pressure and mobilization associated with the young Constance case, the Kaftrio approval process was faster than usual. Still, too slow for the hundreds of patients with cystic fibrosis in Portugal and for this young woman in particular, who touched us all, bringing visibility to this disease. However, now that the EMA has extended and approved the use of this medicine for more mutations of cystic fibrosis, already covering about 50 or 60 people in Portugal, we have again witnessed the repetition of the entire process of economic and therapeutic evaluation by Infarmed for a drug that has already been evaluated and approved for less than six months. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this as in other cases—even yesterday, in this House, we discussed amiotrophic lateral sclerosis—we know that the longer it is access to drugs, therapies and medical care, the worse the prognosis and the quality of life of patients. We know that scientific knowledge must be an ally of health policies and that we cannot rely on bureaucratic mechanisms, costly procedures or financial restraints. The one who has also been the procedure in some hospitals, particularly with regard to the bureaucratic process that has been delaying access to these treatments in several weeks should be reviewed. We know that this situation is restricted to a minority of reference centres, but we do not understand why these delays are so detrimental to the lives of these people. They are very real cases and illustrate the changes that still need to be made in our country. People's health cannot be dependent on mediating situations. Portuguese and Portuguese cannot wait more years for a medicine that is already available in similar situations in the rest of Europe. The lives of citizens cannot be put at risk because of the lack of more agile administrative mechanisms. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the definition of public health policies needs to be increasingly based on the cost-effectiveness assessment of intervention options. A patient with cystic fibrosis who does not have access to these medicines will be a patient who will necessarily aggravate their health status, require more hospitalization, more medication, more personal and public costs. Greater investment in health innovation will, in many cases, bring lower costs, medium and long-term, for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u85	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr. Miguel Arrobas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the 75 000 subscribers to this petition, so fundamental to the health of so many patients, and I welcome their civic attitude. I refrain from repeating what has already been said about cystic fibrosis, but the CDS does not refrain from expressing its position on access to innovative therapies. As we all know, at the beginning of this year, the difficulty in accessing innovative therapies for the treatment of cystic fibrosis took media proportions, through the case of a young woman who made a public appeal on social networks, sensitizing the country. The Constance, to whom the CDS pays a sincere tribute, unfortunately, is no longer between us. To your family and friends we address our greatest solidarity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u88	However, this was not, unfortunately, the first case made public about the difficulty of access to innovative therapies, as a result of the morbidity in the treatment of approval processes with Infarmed, either in the drug-therapeutic evaluation or in the drug-economic evaluation. The CDS does not believe it would be acceptable for the national regulator to spend many years authorising the market for innovative therapies, the effectiveness of which is already proven by international regulators such as the European Medicines Agency or the Food and Drug Administration, and which can save lives or at least greatly improve the hope and quality of life for many people. In the specific case of this medicine for cystic fibrosis, at the end of July it was finally approved by Infarmed. But unfortunately, in order for this to happen, it was necessary for the case of a patient to become public and take enormous media proportions. The big question here is that many of the innovative drugs are dependent on the Exceptional Use Authorisation, through the early access program. What has been verified is that these processes are too slow, bureaucratic and that the speed in the response that has been given is not consistent with the urgency of patients' access to medicines. We reiterate that these delays in the approval of innovative treatments do not occur only in the case of cystic fibrosis, nor in the case of innovatory treatments for rare diseases, are found in the approval of innovative medicines for several other diseases, often for which there is no effective therapeutic alternative either. It seems to the CDS to establish common sense that, ensuring the safety of medicines and patients, it is crucial to make these authorisation processes more agile and fast. Knowing that we are, in most cases, faced with extremely costly drugs for the State, however, we understand that a real investment in health is an investment in the quality of life of sick people, providing agile and timely access to medicines that guarantee them greater life expectancy, higher quality of life, dignity in the disease and thus helping them to continue active people. It is known that, in the example of cystic fibrosis, the hospitalization of a severe patient lasts at least three weeks, often in intensive care, and there are patients who become subject to five hospitalizations per year. The charges that these hospitalizations represent for the State, for each patient, could often be avoided if these patients had early access to innovative medicines, which was clearly not happening. And it should be noted that it continues not to happen in relation to many other diseases. This example of cystic fibrosis admissions illustrates what happens to many other diseases, in which patients cannot access innovative medicines because — dare-CL – I would call it Infarmed inertia. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot resign ourselves to the fact that in Portugal patients who need innovative medicines, often to save their lives, are being harmed by patients from other countries, where access to these medicines is ensured. The national regulator must, of course, be demanding and competent in the evaluation of innovative therapies and in the negotiation with the pharmaceutical industry, but must also be speedy in its approval. The number of initiatives now under discussion shows that there is sensitivity to this issue on Parliament's part. The CDS is committed to doing what it can to ensure that the government and the regulator become aware of each other and start giving priority to patients and their quality of life, to the detriment of drug prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u89	I appreciate your conclusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u90	I will finish, Madam President. We present this draft resolution with clear recommendations to the Government. If they are adopted, we will give many and new hopes to all the patients who ask for help. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u91	You have the word, to present the Resolution Project No. 1067 / XIV / 2. a, from the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First and foremost, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the many thousands of petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic and who, once again, lead us to debate here in the Assembly of the Republic, the problem of access in the country to innovative therapies. Yesterday, when we discussed another request, for another clinical situation, for amiotrophic lateral sclerosis, we said exactly this: Portugal compares poorly with the European average and with other European countries when it comes to the introduction of therapeutic innovation. We remember, in fact, and today we stress — because for cystic fibrosis the situation is the same — what is contained in the report of the Portuguese Observatory of Health Systems on therapeutic innovation in Portugal. This same report says that Portugal is one of the countries where it takes longer to authorize the introduction of therapeutic innovation — innovative drugs and therapies — and this is due to budgetary reasons, which have nothing to do with clinical trials or the technical evaluation of these medicines, are strictly budgetary, therefore, budgetary policy, and also has to do with the lack of planning to introduce this innovation in Portugal. We recall, for example, that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in yesterday's debate, opposed the report of the Portuguese Observatory the report of access to the National Health Service, which is also drawn up by the Government of the Socialist Party, to say that a lot of therapeutic innovation was being introduced in Portugal. However, the situation of cystic fibrosis now brought to us by the petitioners rejects what the Socialist Party said yesterday in a debate on therapeutic innovation in Portugal, because the situation of cystic fibrosis shows how, for this latest innovative drug, Portugal, once again, took a great deal of time in relation to the timings, for example, of the European Medicines Agency. But more than that, for this same disease, for cystic fibrosis, there were previous drugs that took five years to be introduced into Portugal — five years! — from the date when they were authorised by the agencies of the international medicinal product, in particular the European one. Five years to introduce therapeutic innovation in Portugal! And this new medicine, once again, it takes a lot of time! Open... However, the fact that there is this delay—is guided by budgetary issues, is guided by a lack of planning to introduce therapeutic innovation—makes patients in Portugal less access to medicines, compared to patients in other European countries, makes doctors in Portugal less available to combat diseases and respond to patients and makes it necessary to use exceptional authorisation mechanisms that are not effectively answered. Exceptional authorisation mechanisms do not reach all persons who are eligible for certain therapy. Of all people, only very few will have this exceptional authorization and, in addition, when medicines reach these few people, often they already arrive in very late stages of the disease and therefore when the disease is already advanced, which makes no sense. What makes sense is there is a planning for the introduction of innovation in the country, which makes sense that it can be used as quickly as possible, when the disease is not yet advanced, exactly to avoid the most serious consequences and to increase the survival of patients in these very serious diseases. Therefore, the proposal that the Left Block brings here is very similar to that which we discussed yesterday and which we have also brought to plenary: that, in Portugal, the agency of medicine, Infarmed and the Government should obviously be very attentive to everything that is going on in the world and in Europe and there is a much more rapid way to introduce therapeutic innovation in Portugal, through an annual planning of this same therapeutic introduction, and not waiting for three, four, five, six years to introduce drugs that have already been approved in Europe by the European Agency. And we cannot accept that drugs are available not for drug-therapeutic reasons, but sometimes because of the pressure that can be triggered in social communication or social networks. What is really needed is that everyone has access to innovation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u93	You have the floor to present the PSD draft resolution, Mrs Cláudia Bento.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioners and, through them, greet the more than 75 000 citizens who have signed the petition « Immediate access to Kaftrio® for patients with cystic fibrosis in Portugal ». The theme of this petition is aimed at therapeutic innovation, particularly access to new medicines, which requires deep reflection, in order to implement measures that make the process of acquiring new more agile therapies, procedures that must meet the diagnostic and therapeutic needs of our patients. All the bureaucratic waiting time that occurs for the introduction of new therapies is a sign of progressive and irreversible loss. It is not acceptable that the time for access to therapeutic innovation is five times higher in Portugal compared to the best European outcome, 119 days for Germany against the 634 days waiting for the Portuguese. Throughout the debate on this topic, there was consensus among the different parliamentary groups on the need to adopt simplification and agility processes for the authorisation of new innovative drugs. And as such, I highlight the various initiatives and efforts carried out by the various parliamentary groups in order to make Kaftrio® accessible to all eligible patients with cystic fibrosis. Thus, honoring its duty, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party presented draft resolution No. 1115 / XIV / 2. the diploma that we also discussed here today, and through which we recommend to the Government that the treatment of all patients with cystic fibrosis be made available in a timely manner. On the petition itself it is worth making a brief exposition and contextualization. Cystic fibrosis is a rare, autosomal recessive disease, with an estimated incidence in Portugal from one to 7,000 births, i.e., it is estimated that about 30 to 40 children with cystic fibrosis are born each year. The manifestations of the disease occur with a variable spectrum of presentations, with pulmonary changes responsible for 90% of the morbidity and mortality. And it is the lung disease that determines the prognosis and survival of these patients. The therapy of cystic fibrosis consists of symptomatic treatment and correction of organic dysfunction. In recent years a set of modulatory therapies have emerged, allowing the possibility of altering the course and the natural history of the disease. The Kalydeco® and Orkambi® drugs, approved by the European Medicines Agency in 2012 and 2015, respectively, were awaiting Infarmed approval since 2016. Unfortunately, the approval process in Portugal remained until 26 January 2021, i.e. we have been approving these drugs for five years, with important implications for the quality of life and survival of these patients. More recently, there was a new drug, Kaftrio®, which showed significant improvement in the prognosis of patients with cystic fibrosis. On 21 August 2020, the European Medicines Agency authorised the marketing within the European Union of Kaftrio® medicine. After reports of great human suffering associated with the inaccessibility of patients to these new therapies, a public petition for the approval of Kaftrio® was launched in November 2020. Although there are special authorisations for the use of the innovative medicine, the truth is that they are insufficient and cannot be seen as a solution. in this sense, the draft resolution presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group — and to which I have already mentioned — defends the adoption of the necessary procedures to ensure that Infarmed quickly completes the procedures for the approval of medicinal products for the treatment of cystic fibrosis that are pending in Infarmed. Kaftrio® began to be evaluated by Infarmed in 2020 and only spent more than one year on 22 July 2021, it was authorised by Infarmed to treat patients with cystic fibrosis with specific mutations. This delay in authorisation placed Portuguese patients in a disadvantaged situation, since Portugal was one of the last countries of the European Union to have access to these innovative therapies. I also stress — and this is an important point — that the European Medicines Agency has already extended the spectrum of Kaftrio® mutations, but this update has not yet been made in Portugal, so we will follow this process. What happens is that whenever the European Medicines Agency makes an amendment to the indication of a particular drug, it is necessary to start a new evaluation process in Infarmed and, as such, it becomes necessary to speed up the process and correct this situation. I end up leaving a word of appreciation and comfort for all patients suffering from this disease and their families. I stress the commitment developed by the associations of patients with cystic fibrosis in the fight and conquest of these new therapies. On 26 March 2021 the agreement between the Member States on the legislative proposal on the assessment of health technologies for patients was notified, with the aim of contributing to the formulation of safe and effective health policies, focusing on the patient and aimed at obtaining the best value, thus improving access to this technology. I would also like to make a reference to the promotion of access to innovative medicines and their agility is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, which must be central to the access and protection of the health of all Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u95	You have the floor to present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u96	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: I address, first of all, the petitioners and those who have promoted this petition. I would like to tell you that it was a pleasure to receive you, to deepen the difficulties faced by patients with cystic fibrosis, including the difficulties they experience in access to these innovative medicines. In fact, what we care to do here today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a reflection of why the delay and the delay of these medicines are so significant, in particular medicines that already have proof of their benefits — scientific evidence shows this — and in which the problem of access is something that should concern us. In fact, there were two approved drugs, Orkambi®, from the age of 11, as well as Kaftrio®, from the age of 12 years, in the appropriate clinical conditions and with the appropriate clinical criteria. But, Mrs Hortense Martins, what we have to say to you is that we do not want to — and we must do everything to do so — the approval and access to these medicines results from pressures on social networks or pressures even with a petition, but rather from the defense that must be made with regard to the introduction of this medication. In fact, it is important that everything is done so that in degenerative, progressive diseases such as cystic fibrosis—in which, from day to day, you lose your lung, from day to day, if you lose your ventilatory capacity, from day to day you lose your respiratory function capacity, from day to day you lose your quality of life—in fact, there is no progression, a degeneration, as has happened. In fact, we are in the presence of a medicine that, unlike others who only support and had an intervention in symptoms, has an intervention in the cause of the disease. The costs are, of course, high, but this is where we should look, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular on the conduct of the pharmaceutical industry and on the means that our regulatory entity, Infarmed, has. Our regulatory entity, Infarmed, has highly qualified professionals, of which the country should be proud. But unfortunately, because of lack of recognition of their careers, due to lack of working conditions, many of these professionals leave our country and go to the European Medicines Agency, leaving us without important human resources, particularly in Infarmed, which is so accurate to them and technical resources. The question that must be raised is that of the predatory and absolutely mercenary behaviour of the pharmaceutical industry, because users and patients should not be at their mercy, but not the state! That is why we advocate the transparency of these negotiating processes without limitation and that monitoring of the effectiveness of the medicinal products introduced should be carried out. And if we are to sell 'cat per hare' there must be mechanisms for returning these funds that this pharmaceutical industry has taken us. We have a draft resolution that distinguishes itself from the other projects, because, in fact, it calls for the necessary measures to be implemented for the use of this medicine that we have just spoken about, but also for medicines for cystic fibrosis to be made available at the level of hospital pharmacies. This must be the central issue, because it must change the entire access framework and its delay. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that the first step for a drug to be introduced into the Portuguese market is the holder of the medicine himself to ask for its introduction. If the pharmaceutical industry does not profit from the introduction of the product into the Portuguese market it does not bring the medicine here and goes to other places, as if our patients did not have the same right as those of other countries!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u98	That is why we must implement measures to combat the monopoly of industry and the pharmaceutical sector, making negotiations and documents public, without limits of confidentiality. We once again leave a word to our patients with cystic fibrosis and their families, as the PCP has this serious approach to their problems, but we cannot leave the state and users in the hands of the monopolie of the pharmaceutical industry. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u99	Before we continue with the interventions, I ask the services to open the electronic register for quorum purposes. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, cystic fibrosis is in fact one of the most common genetic diseases. Although there has been a great evolution in the average life expectancy over the past few decades, this means that it has no longer been considered a disease of only children, also becoming an adult disease. The petition leading us to this discussion called for the approval of Kaftrio®, an innovative medicine in the treatment of cystic fibrosis, by Infarmed, in good time and for use in the SNS. The petitioners, whom we welcomed from here, were heard and this process ended in July this year, unfortunately already late for Constance Braddel. However, it is important that another reflection be made on this petition, because in the past medicines such as Orkambi and Kalydeco, also for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, took five years to obtain approval. The Integrated Strategy for Rare Diseases 2015 - 2020 defines access to treatment as strategic priorities, which presupposes, and I quote: « appropriate, transparent and robust procedures for cost-benefit assessment of therapies ». But how can a process that has been dragged for five years be considered appropriate? In the opinion of the Liberal Initiative, it cannot, it cannot even, because it is not appropriate to leave the lives of hundreds of people who have a limited life expectancy in suspense. It is not appropriate to decide or decide only when the pressure of public opinion puts the issue on the agenda. Diseases are rare, but also here, and unfortunately bureaucracy is not, and in this case, it costs lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u101	Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I begin my speech by greeting, on behalf of DOS Verdes, the more than 7000 subscribers of the petition that alerts for immediate access to Kaftrio® for patients with cystic fibrosis in Portugal. Once again, we are debating the need to require access to health and treatment. In Portugal, there are about 400 people with cystic fibrosis, a disease that affects particularly the pancreas, the lungs, the liver and the intestine. The quality of life of people with this disease is conditioned, and it is also a disease that greatly reduces the average life expectancy, which is currently estimated to be 40 years old. The right to health must be guaranteed to all Portuguese citizens regardless of their economic, social or health status. This is not only a principle of social justice, but above all an element of progress in society. The National Health Service, a remarkable construction of Portugal in April that now so many are committed to destroying, has been able to give this answer. Even now in the pandemic, even with failures and problems, he was able to give an effective response. Rare and very rare diseases or even those of low incidence must also have particular attention, based on the principle stated above, far beyond economic and financial considerations. Fortunately, advances in science and medicine introduce, every day, innovations in treatments that, if often fail to guarantee cure, mitigate pain, discomfort, and ensure some quality of life that is of vital importance to patients and their families. So it's with cystic fibrosis. It should be noted that, as the subscribers of the petition under discussion rightly point out, this is a chronic disease in which the life expectancy of patients has evolved considerably, whether by early diagnosis, or by access to the most advanced medication. It is in this sense that the indignation of each patient who sees the possibilities of treatment escape from the fingers, even though they are already available on the market. We recognize the importance of conducting, from the national authorities, the necessary studies independently and free of pressure, and that this takes time. We recognize the irreplaceable role of Infarmed, while ensuring the quality of the medicines offered to patients, but we cannot help but associate with those who see these medicines a hope. We will therefore support the proposals that the State will make available in hospital pharmacies with speed the most advanced medicines for these patients. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue to insist that they be registered for quorum purposes, since we shall have votes very soon. We have thus concluded item 4 of the agenda. points 5 and 6 are respectively set out in Resolution Nos 30 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Central African Republic on Defence Cooperation, signed in Bangui on 8 December 2019, and 31 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, and the Republic of Singapore made in Brussels on 19 October 2018, to which no time was allocated for discussion. The last item on our agenda is the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Members. Members who register quickly for quorum purposes, while not forgetting that there is an electronic vote that requires the present vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u104	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u105	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u106	Mr President, it is only to inform my presence for quorum purposes, because I am not able to make my registration electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u107	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Elza Pais is signaling the Bureau. Is it because of the same problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u108	Mr President, it is precisely because of the same problem. I'm not registered for quorum, but I'm here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u109	I'm asking the ladies. Members who are unable to register electronically to say the names so that their presence is registered for quorum purposes. [[Pause.]] I see Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, PS's Members Edite Estrela and Telma Guerreiro, but there are several Members of the PS's board who have not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u110	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u111	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u112	My computer says I'm registered, but I was informed that on the other screens my name does not appear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u113	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We moved on to the PSD bench. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who say the names for registration purposes. Carlos Gonçalves, Catarina Rocha Ferreira, Cláudia Bento, Duarte Marques, Fernando Negrão, Hugo Carneiro, Márcia Passos and Pedro Alves, of the PSD. I do not understand how this happens, when the Bureau is asked that electronic records be prepared so that people can press the button. I don't understand how that doesn't happen! Please continue, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members Clara Marques Mendes, PSD, Nelson Silva, PAN, and Miguel Arrobas, CDS-PP, were also identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u114	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u115	Does Mr. Marcos Perestrello have the same problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u116	No, Mr. President. I had requested the floor in the previous item to inform the Bureau that I find it inadequate to propose resolution No 30 / XIV/3. a ( GOV ), concerning the cooperation agreement in the field of defence between the Portuguese State and the State of the Central African Republic, has not received time for discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u117	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u118	If I may, Mr President, I would like to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u119	I am sorry, Mr, but we are already in the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u120	Mr President, I have asked for the floor at the previous point...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u121	But it did not ask to be understood by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u122	I am sorry, Mr President, but the Bureau understood, because Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha made a sign to me that she had registered my request. Mr President, you did not give me the floor when I asked for it. I would also like to add that I do not consider it appropriate that this motion for a resolution has not descended from the Committee on National Defence, because irrespective of whether it is a matter of foreign policy, it also has an impact on defence policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u123	Mr President, everything on our agenda has been agreed unanimously at the Leaders Conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u124	Yes, Mr President, but since I do not sit at the Conference of Leaders, this is where I can express my disagreement. [[Mr Simões and Mr. CDS-PP applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u125	I ask again who has not yet been able to register. Members Paulo Leitão, Pedro Rodrigues and Ricardo Baptista Leite, PSD, João Dias, PCP, and Inês de Sousa Real, PAN, were also identified. I would ask the services to take into account what is happening right now, since we are going to have to proceed with an electronic vote and it will really be necessary for all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, we can vote. On the other hand, I would ask you to correct the possible situation that has happened today with so many Members so that, in the next quorum check, this will not happen again! Let us therefore proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin by voting on the draft vote No 694 / XIV / 3. a ( presented by the PS ) — regretting the death of Gilberto Gracio. I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Gilberto Marques Gracio died last November 1. I was 85 years old. He was born on May 12, 1936, in the parish of Encarnation, in Lisbon. At only 12 years of age, in the workshop of his father, João Pedro Grácio Júnior ( 1903 - 1967 ), in the Escadinhas da Ponte Nova, in Agualva-Cacém, municipality of Sintra, began to build musical instruments, thus giving continuity to an activity initiated by his grandfather, João Pedro Grácio ( 1872 - 1963 ). Self-taughter, you learned to work at your father's office. At the age of 17, he built his first instrument, a rapist. His passion for the fairy began in childhood, at the age of 6, when he attended a session in the Adega do Ramalho, in Cacem, where guitarist José António Sabrosa ( 1915 - 1987 ), husband of the great fadist Maria Teresa de Noronha ( 1918 - 1993 ). from his hands were guitars and violins of attested sound quality, perfect and incomparable beauty, acquired by almost all professional musicians, cases of Artur and Carlos Paredes, António Chaínho, Sergio Godinho, Paco Bandeira, Rui Veloso and even Jimmy Page, who asked him to build a Portuguese guitar, among numerous other great musicians. The collaboration between Gilberto Grácio and Carlos Paredes ( 1925 - 2004 ) was very close, resulting in this exchange the creation of a new cordophone, the guitar presented in June 2005. identical to the Portuguese guitar, but of greater dimensions, the guitar is mounted with six orders of double strings, such as the Portuguese guitar. In September 2003, he opened a training workshop through the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training and the Municipal Chamber of Oeiras, in Alto da Loba, in Paço de Arcos, in order not to miss the tradition of the art of building the Portuguese guitar. Gilberto Grácio was referred to as ‘the oldest and most conceived guitar maker, ’ according to the Portuguese Association of Fado Friends, who distinguished him as a member of Merit in the first decade of this century. He was repeatedly recognized for his work, having received decorations from the City Hall of Sintra, the Union of Freguesia de Agualva-Mira Sintra and the Union of Freguesia de Cacem-São Marcos. On 5 October 2002 he was decorated by the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio with the Order of Merit Command. In 2004 and 2012 respectively, the municipal chambers of Oeiras and Lisbon awarded him the corresponding medals of Municipal Merit, Grau Ouro. The Fairy Museum, in 2019, paid tribute to the opening of the Portuguese Guitar Construction Office, with the allocation of a room dedicated to it. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Gilberto Gracio and directs its deepest condolences to its relatives and friends, paying tribute to a personality in the Portuguese cultural landscape. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will now vote for the Vote Project No 695 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by the PSD and signed by PS Members ) — I regret the death of Antonio André da Silva Topa, our colleague until a very short time ago, which, of course, I associate with, with disgust. I inform the House that your wife, children and some friends are present in the gallery. I would ask Mr Rui Rio to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « The death of Mr António Topa is a loss for the Assembly of the Republic and for Portuguese democracy. Professional engineer, he dedicated his life to the public cause. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the XIII and XIV legislatures and Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing. Featured figure of the Social Democratic Party, had an active participation in the partisan structures at local, district and national level. At the local level, he was the Director of Planning, Urbanism and Particular Works of the Municipal Chamber of Santa Maria da Feira, member of the Municipal Assembly of this municipality and member of the Assembly of Freguesia de Vila Maior. of its passage through the Assembly of the Republic, it cannot fail to be remembered its position of dialogue, based on simplicity and firmness. Directing the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, the exemption, justice and fairness with which it has always dealt with all the Members of the Assembly of the Republic is paid. His pluralism, respect for political, social, religious and civic differences, made him a man appreciated by all political quadrants. More than political and partisan functions, Mr António Topa has said himself as a good man, of affable, serene, attentive, consensualizing. Having an altruistic spirit, he would be pleased to help others, especially the most vulnerable. Mr.António Topa was a friend, not to fail to be firm in alerting the error; he was serene, but safe in conviction; he was cautious, but bold in challenges; of fine and hurried humor, but serious in debate and ideas. Simplicity, enthusiasm, work and respect were the pillars of their civic and political conduct. The following words of Saint Augustine could very well be spoken by Antony Topa:‘ (...) I am, what it was for you will continue to be. Call me the name they've always called me, talk to me like they've always done. They don't use a solemn or sad tone, they keep laughing at what made us laugh. Life means everything it has always meant, the wire has not been cut. I'm not far, I'm just on the other side of the road... You who have stayed there, I've followed forward, life continues, beautiful and beautiful as it has always been. So was Antonio Topa. So it will continue to be in our hearts. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 5 November, approves a vote of regret for the death of Mr.António Topa and expresses sympathy to his family and to all those who deeply feel his absence. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[General applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on the draft vote No 696 / XIV / 3. a ( presented by the members of the PSD and PS elected by the electoral circle of Madeira ) — Despite the death of former Deputy Carlos Lélis of the Gonçalves House. I ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u130	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « The Assembly of the Republic took note of the sad news of the death of the former PSD Member Carlos Lélis of the Chamber Gonçalves. Born at Funchal on 31 October 1931, he was Regional Secretary of Education of the Regional Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and served as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the V and VI legislatures between 1987 and 1995, elected by the Electoral Circle of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. throughout his life, he was decorated in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and beyond borders, highlighting the distinction as the Grand Officer of the Order of Merit of Luxembourg and the Medal of the Portuguese Red Cross. In the course of his parliamentary life, he was committed to the monitoring of a wide range of subjects within the framework of the Committees on Education, Science and Culture, the history of Parliament, among others. Carlos Lélis was a graduate in Romanian Philology and a PhD in Communication Sciences, who also completed postgraduate studies in Data Collection and Research Techniques, Human Resources Management, as well as a course in Pedagogic Sciences. As Regional Secretary of Education, he became known as a dedicated and pragmatic man, a true advocate of pedagogical innovation. Carlos Lélis was the main head of Madeirense at the Expo98 Commission, he was a professor at the University of Bucharest, member of the Installation Commission of the then Instituto Universitário da Madeira, member of the National Theatre Council, of the Board of Television Programs of RTP, Secretary of the Council of the Portuguese Communities and also President of the Madeira House in Lisbon. He was also director of the News of Madeira, columnist and author of works such as the D’Isles Invention and 100 Cheques Carecas. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its public regret at the death of Carlos Lélis da Câmara Gonçalves, presenting to his family his most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u131	I would also like to associate myself, personally and institutionally, with this draft vote of regret, recalling with appreciation the times we spent here as Members between 1991 and 1995 in two different benches but always with great cordiality. Let us therefore vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us keep a minute's silence with regard to these three votes of regret. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Further, I am asking the services to put on the list, as was 1 minute ago, the name of the Members who are not registered, because several people who were not registered are sitting in the Chamber. So I ask the Services to make the list available again, so that I can call them one by one. [[Pause.]] I'll call the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, one by one, to confirm if they are not present. Mr André Pinotes Batista, PS, are you present? [[Pause.]] He's not. Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u132	Here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u133	Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u134	Here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u135	Mr Duarte Pacheco, PSD. [[Pause.]] It's not present. Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u136	Here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u137	Mr Hugo Carneiro, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u138	Here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u139	Mr. Paulo Pisco of the PS. [[Pause.]] He's not. Mr Paulo Porto of the PS. [[Pause.]] He's not there either. This means that only four Members are missing. 226 Members are present, so we have the quorum necessary for the votes. Let us therefore begin by voting, in the specialty, according to the Supplementary Script I, the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 109 / XIV — regulates the conditions under which the assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code. With no objection, we shall proceed to the joint vote in the speciality of the proposals submitted by the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, on the addition of a new Article 1. the amendment to Article 2 ( 1 ). the amendment to Article 2 ( 2 ). the addition of a new Article 2 ( 3 ). the addition of a new Article 2 ( 4 ). the amendment to Article 3 ( 2 ). that of that decree. I'll start by asking who votes against. [[Pause.]] As America records the votes against the PCP, CDS-PP, CH, PS Ascenso Simõ, Cristina Sousa, Joaquim Barretto, José Luís Carnário, Maria da Graça Reis, Pedro Cegonho e Romuela, CH, PS De De De De De De De Deputees Ascenasio Simon, Cristina Ascenas, Cristina Sousa, Joaquim Barrato, Joaquim Barreto, José Luis Barrio Moreto Moreto, Carlos Miguel dos Santos, Antonio Cunha, Antonio Lima Cuná,, Antonio Lima, Antonio Andra, Antonio Andra, Antonio Andra, André Andra, André, Romeo, Pedro Andra, Romeo, Antonio, Romeo, Romeo, Antonio, Romeo, Antonio, Romeo, Romeo, Romeo, Pedro, Romeo, Romeo Musica Musica I wonder, now, who's away. [[Pause.]] The Bureau records the abstentions of PS Deputies João Azevedo Castro and Nuno Fazenda and PSD Deputies Adam Silva, Lina Lopes and Ofélia Ramos. Now, I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN, PEV, IL, PSD Members André Coelho Lima, António Maló de Abreu, Catarina Rocha Ferreira, Cristóvão Norte, Duarte Marques, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Meireles, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Monica Quintela, Pedro Pinto, Rui Rio, Rui Silva and Sofia Matos and the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. [[The vote was put to the vote by the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the IL, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 13 PSD Members, votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH, 7 PS Deputies and 62 PSD Members and abstentions of 2 PS and 3 PSD Members.]] [[The following are the following: Article 1a Definitions For the purposes of this law, the following definitions are considered: (a) Death of assisted medicine: death: death of assisted medicine: death by decision of the person himself, in exercising his fundamental right to self-determination and free self-determination and free development of personality, when practised or assisted by health professionals; (b) Suicide assisted medicine: self-administration of lethal drugs by the patient himself, under medical supervision under medical supervision; (c) Eutracurities: administration of lethal drugs; (c) Euthanasia: administration of lethal drugs, by the physician or health professional or health professional duly qualified for that purpose; (d) health or health professional or health professional or self-determination; (d) health professional or self-determination, when committed or assisted by health professionals; (d) when practised or assisted or assisted by health professionals; (d by health professionals for the purpose of the purposes of this Act. The physician is indicated by the patient; h) Medical specialist: physician specialist in the pathology that affects the patient and that does not belong to the same team of the physician. Article 2 1 — For the purposes of this law, it is considered non-punishable assisted drug death that occurs by the decision of the person himself, greater, whose will is current and repeated, serious, free and clear, in a situation of intolerable suffering, with definitive injury of extreme gravity or incurable and fatal disease, when practiced or assisted by health professionals. 2 — For the purposes of this law, only applications for death or assisted medicine submitted by national citizens or legally resident in national territory shall be considered legitimate. 3 — Assisted drug death occurs in accordance with the will and decision of the person himself, which is found in one of the following situations: (a) Definitive injury of extreme gravity; (b) serious or incurable illness. 4 — Assisted drug death may occur by: (a) Suicide assisted drug; (b) Euthanasia. 5 — (Current Article 2(3) of Decree No 109/XLV). 6 — (Current Article 2(4) of Decree No 109/XLV). Article 3(2) — The application shall be addressed to the physician chosen by the patient as an ‘advisor physician’.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u140	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u141	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u142	Mr President, it is to inform me that, although I was not at the beginning, I was present during the vote immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u143	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the new decree, with the amendments introduced. I'll start by asking who votes against. [[Pause.]] As America records the votes against the PCP, CDS-PP, CH, PS Ascenso Simõ, Cristina Sousa, Joaquim Barretto, José Luís Carnário, Maria da Graça Reis, Pedro Cegonho e Romuela, CH, PS De De De De De De De Deputees Ascenasio Simon, Cristina Ascenas, Cristina Sousa, Joaquim Barrato, Joaquim Barreto, José Luis Barrio Moreto Moreto, Carlos Miguel dos Santos, Antonio Cunha, Antonio Lima Cuná,, Antonio Lima, Antonio Andra, Antonio Andra, Antonio Andra, André Andra, André, Romeo, Pedro Andra, Romeo, Antonio, Romeo, Romeo, Antonio, Romeo, Antonio, Romeo, Romeo, Romeo, Pedro, Romeo, Romeo Musica Musica Who's away? [[Pause.]] The Bureau records the abstentions of PS Deputies João Azevedo Castro and Nuno Fazenda and PSD Deputies Adam Silva, Lina Lopes and Ofélia Ramos. I ask, now, who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] The Bureau recorded the votes in favour of PS, BE, PEV, PAN, IL and PSD Members André Coelho Lima, António Maló de Abreu, Catarina Rocha Ferreira, Cristóvão Norte, Duarte Marques, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Meireles, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Monica Quintela, Pedro Pinto, Rui Rio, Rui Silva and Sofia Matos and the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the IL, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 13 PSD Members, votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH, 7 PS Deputies and 62 PSD Members and abstentions of 2 PS and 3 PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u144	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u145	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u146	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote in writing on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u147	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, also with regard to the new decree, we have 89 votes between abstentions and votes against and 117 votes in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u148	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u149	You have the floor, Mr. Pedro Rodrigues, to help the Bureau, I suppose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u150	Mr President, I imagine that the Bureau does not need my assistance in mathematics and therefore it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote on these votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u151	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u152	Mr President, I would also like the floor to inform you that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u153	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u154	Mr. President, we have a question on the account. It's just a second, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u155	The one who makes the accounts is the Mesa. They are difficult to do, as you know, because we have to take into account that not all Members are present, there are 3 missing. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, it has been confirmed that the votes against are 84 and that the abstentions are 5, which gives 89. From 89 to 227, « it is only to make the accounts...! »,... [[Laughing.]] ...what gives 138. There are, indeed, those who need recycling in mathematics. Therefore, the new decree was adopted with 138 votes in favour, 84 against and 5 abstentions. This is the final result of the adoption of the decree. I'm sorry for this little confusion at last.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u156	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to announce that I and Mrs Lima will present a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u157	Be registered. Mr Firmino Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u158	Mr President, in order to announce that, in my vote against, I will add a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u159	It's registered, but now they're sorry to repeat that they voted against. It is enough to say that they will present a statement of vote. Mr Pedro Cegonho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u160	Mr President, I shall present a statement of vote together with Mr Joaquim Barreto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u161	Be registered. Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u162	Mr President, I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u163	Be registered. We will move on to additional script II, on the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 176 / XIV — Amendment to the rules for the framework of the Local Economy Support Programme. We have several amendments relating to Article 2. that of that decree. Let us begin by voting on the proposal from the NAP, amending Article 6 ( 4 ). the Law No 43 / 2012, of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the PSD and the NAP and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — In the event of failure to meet the objectives of financial rebalancing, the municipality must, on the basis of the settlement of the loan contract, approve the application of the maximum rate of IMI in force at the date of non-compliance, unless it is possible to adopt other measures to increase the effective revenue with impact the equivalent that would be obtained with the application of that maximum rate, and in case no such effective revenue can be obtained through the reduction of the associated municipality’s expenditure: (a) social action programmes; (b) the health area, in particular the current functioning of health centres; (c) the area of education, in particular to municipal daycare networks and educational establishments; (d) equipment in the area of the elderly. (e) the implementation of the municipal housing policy; (f) the protection and animal welfare programmes; (g) the environmental area, including measures relating to: i. waste policy, including the promotion of the policy of the three Rs (Reducing — Reusing — Recycling) and a circular economy; mitigation and adaptation to climate change; iii. energy efficiency and the use of water resources; and iv. the preservation of ecosystems.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u164	We shall now vote on the proposal from the NAP to amend Article 6 ( 8 ). the Law No 43 / 2012, of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected and votes against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘8 — The Plan, and all its obligations, cease at the time of complete settlement, using own or other funds, of the current loan granted by the State.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u165	The vote on the PSD proposal to amend Article 6 ( 8 ) shall follow. the Law No 43 / 2012, of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘8 — The Plan, and all its obligations, shall cease, at the time of complete settlement, with the use of own or other funds, of the current loan granted by the State.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u166	Mrs. Members, let us vote on the proposal from the NAP to eliminate Article 6 ( 9 ). the Law No 43 / 2012, of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will now vote on the PSD proposal to eliminate Article 6 ( 9 ). the Law No 43 / 2012, of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on the proposal from the NAP, amending Article 11 ( 1 ). the Law No 43 / 2012, of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The approval by the municipality of any acts violating compliance with Article 6 shall be considered as serious illegality in accordance with and for the purposes of Article 9(i) of Law No 27/96 of 1 August.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u167	The vote on the proposal to amend the PSD, as amended by Article 11 ( 1 ), follows. the Law No 43 / 2012, of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: ‘1 — The approval by the municipality of any acts violating compliance with Article 6 shall be considered as serious illegality in accordance with and for the purposes of Article 9(i) of Law No 27/96 of 1 August in its current wording.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u168	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote on the new decree, with the amendments introduced or...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u169	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u170	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u171	Mr President, considering that there was no proposal for an amendment which had been adopted, what we shall vote on is the confirmation of the decree.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u172	But that's what I was asking... it doesn't make sense to vote on the new decree because there were no amendments, so we're just going to vote on the confirmation of the decree. Who votes against? [[Pause.]] They vote against BE, PAN, CDS-PP, IL and CH. Who's away? [[Pause.]] There are no abstentions. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of PS, PCP, PEV... I don't know if there are PSD Members voting for confirmation of the decree. Don't... Therefore, the decree was confirmed by the majority vote of this plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u173	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u174	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u175	Mr President, this decree is subject to an electronic vote, so I believe we must wait for the closure of the electronic vote to be said that 116 Members have voted in favour of the decree to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have forgotten that an electronic vote was needed. So I'm going to start by asking who votes against and I'm asking you to load the red button, please. [[Pause.]] Well, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that on all your screens is the vote on the confirmation of the decree... [[No, he's not!]] [[No, he's not!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u177	I don't understand what's going on with computer services today. It is regrettable that this is happening when we knew so long in advance that there were electronic votes. Anyway, I'm asking the gentlemen. Members who vote against to press the red button and those who fail to get it to say the meaning of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u178	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u179	I vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u180	Mr President, I also want to vote against this shame. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] Once no one abstains, I ask the gentlemen. Members who vote in favour of the green button and those who fail to get it to say the meaning of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u182	I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u183	I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u184	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u185	Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, we are in the middle of a vote. Is it to say you're going to vote in favour? Don't...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u186	That's to say I'm going to vote in favour. Mr President, you must be patient with your Members!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u187	They're not mine. Members are from the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD and PAN applause.]] Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u188	Mr President, it is to announce my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u189	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, therefore, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 176 / XIV was confirmed, because it has much more votes in favour than against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u190	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u191	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u192	Mr President, the results are all announced, but I would like the Bureau to inform the 114 registered Members that the voting panel adds the four Members who have not been able to register, that is to give the 118 votes for the confirmation of the decree. Only to be announced, because the voting results panel only records the vote in favour of 114 Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u193	You're absolutely right. This decree has therefore been confirmed. The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 176 / XIV was confirmed with the votes of the absolute majority of deputies in effective office, having registered 118 votes in favour ( PS, PCP and PEV ) and 109 votes against ( PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ). Mrs. Members, we also have to vote for the plenary of the Indicative Votes held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees relating to the Bill No 516 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transfers the seat of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Entity for Political Accounts to the City of Coimbra, making the tenth amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law on the organisation, operation and procedure of the Constitutional Court ), the third amendment to the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, approved by Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February, and the third amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law on the organisation and operation of the Entity for Political Accounts and Finance ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote, which will be electronically, of the said final text, and I therefore ask the services to make the electronic vote available to all Members as soon as possible. [[Pause.]] by the way, it is still not possible for all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, vote. Let's wait a few more minutes. I ask the services to inform the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha when they consider that your work is finished. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u194	Mr President, does the Bureau, as usual, ask the way in which we vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u195	Mr. Deputies, the system is still being developed. So let's wait a little longer. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not yet in a position to vote. We'll wait a few more minutes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u196	Mr President, I just wanted to say that, I don't know why the system still doesn't start on my computer. Given the fact that I've been able to register without any problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u197	Mr President, we are not yet in a position to vote electronically. As soon as we're in a position to do it, for the ladies. Members who fail to vote will use the same procedure recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u199	Sadly, it is so, « it is life! », as the then Secretary-General of the PS and current Secretary-General of the United Nations ( United Nations ) said. [[Pause.]] It is clear that I have already asked the Bureau Secretaries to meet urgently with the services, in particular all those who deal with the computer issues in the plenary, to end these situations that do not magnify or ennoble Parliament. [[Pause.]] The balance sheet is showing the number of Members who are in a position to vote electronically. We still have only 196 registered Members and, as more than 220 Members are present, this means that we will still have to wait some time. [[Pause.]] We already have 204 registered Members. It is absolutely incomprehensible what is happening and I am the first to consider that all this is unacceptable. I fully understand the position of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the subject. [[Pause.]] We have 211 registered Members. [[Pause.]] Let's wait a little longer. The system is walking, but very slowly. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the Bill No 516 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transfers the seat of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Entity for Political Accounts to the City of Coimbra, making the tenth amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of the Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ), the tenth amendment to the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, approved by Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February, and the third amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law of Organization and Operation of the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing ). I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against the CH, the PAN and the Deputies of PS Fernando Anastácio, Isabel Alves Moreira, Jorge Lacão and Luís Capoulas Santos. I'm asking who's away. [[Pause.]] They abstain from PS, PCP, PEV, and MPs not registered Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u200	Mr President, allow me to say that my vote is abstention, because I have not done it electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u201	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u202	Mr President, I am sorry, but I would also like to say that I abstain, since I have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u203	I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the IL, the BE and the Members of the PS Ascension Simons, Vasconcelos Bachelor, Cristina Jesus, João Gouveia, Pedro Coimbra, Raquel Ferreira and Tiago Estêvão Martins. I would ask the services to present us with the results of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u204	Mr President, if you will excuse me, I would like to announce that I voted in favour. And I'm saying that, because my computer has been blank for quite a long time, so I can't register...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u205	You voted in favour, didn't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u206	I voted in favour, but I couldn't make the electronic record.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u207	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u208	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u209	Mr President, it was only to confirm that my abstention was registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u210	Mrs. Members, with 109 votes in favour, 108 abstentions and 9 votes against means that the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness has not been reached, so this final text has not been adopted. [[Subject to the vote, it did not obtain the votes of the absolute majority of Members in effective office, with 9 votes against (5 PS, 3 PAN and 1 CH), 109 votes in favour (77 PS, 19 BE, 7 PS, 5 CDS-PP and 1 IL) and 108 abstentions (94 PS, 10 PCP, 2 PEN and 2 non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira).]] We now turn to the general vote on the Bill No 115 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support and expedite business restructuring and payment agreements and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1023 on preventive restructuring schemes, debt forgiveness and inhibitions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. I'm asking the ladies. Members not to circulate in the middle of the vote and I thank Vice-President Edite Estrela for replacing me. In any case, there will be a short-term meeting between the Bureau and the services so that the scenes today do not repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u211	All right! [[In the meantime, he re-chaired Vice-President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u212	Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 117 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Ensures compliance with the Agreements between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in respect of extradition and freezing, seizure and loss of property. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 29 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mobility Agreement between the Member States of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u213	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u214	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u215	Mr President, I just wanted to say that a written statement of vote on this matter will be introduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u216	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1133 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Availability of therapeutic innovation for treatment of lateral amyotrophic sclerosis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u217	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u218	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u219	Madam President, to inform you that we will present a written statement of vote on the motion for a resolution No 29 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u220	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who wish to make statements of vote as soon as possible before we move on to the next point. Thank you very much for your cooperation. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1133 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Availability of therapeutic innovation for treatment of lateral amyotrophic sclerosis. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 32 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the amendment to the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism between the Member States of Economic and Monetary Union, held in Brussels on 27 January 2021 and 8 February 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL, against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN, CH and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues were adopted.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 33 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the amendment to the Agreement on the Transfer and Exchange of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund between the Member States of Economic and Monetary Union, made in Brussels, on 27 January 2021 and 8 February 2021. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 527 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Amendment to the Penal Code, exacerbating the penalty for anyone who inflicts ill-treatment on pets. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against CH and PAN, and abstentions against CDS-PP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u221	Madam President, to inform us that we are going to make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u222	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No. 1000 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — adequacy of the system of identification of equidae, making the first amendment to Decree-Law No 123 / 2013 of 28 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PEV and CH.]] The general vote of Bill No 1007 / XIV / 3 is followed. a ( BE ) — Improves the system of identification of functional ability of equidae and introduces the possibility of being registered as pets ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 123 / 2013 of 28 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PEV and CH.]] We now have to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1016 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of the measures necessary for faster access to innovative therapies for patients with cystic fibrosis. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. If there are no objections, we shall generally proceed to the joint vote of Resolution Projects Nos 1054 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of support measures for patients with cystic fibrosis, 1060 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increased agility and speed in access to innovative therapies, 1067 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Access to therapeutic innovation for patients with cystic fibrosis and 1115 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — The availability of treatment time most suitable for patients with cystic fibrosis. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the draft resolutions we just voted on are down to 9. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1119 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — It proposes access measures to medicines used in the treatment of cystic fibrosis. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against IL and the CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, the draft resolution is down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 30 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Central African Republic on Defence Cooperation signed in Bangui on 8 December 2019. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 31 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Singapore, held in Brussels on 19 October 2018. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1342 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends that the Government take diplomatic action with the European Union, promoting the protection of LGBTQI+ people in the face of repressive legislation approved by the Hungarian Parliament. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against CH and PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u223	Madam President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u224	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now have to vote on draft resolution No 1222 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad debate with the social partners with a view to the conclusion of a social agreement on matters relating to the future of work, in particular on telework and the work of digital nomads. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the IL and abstentions against the CH and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1453 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, in accordance with the State budget for 2021, submit to the Assembly of the Republic the implementation report of the Statute of the Former Combatant. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and PSD abstentions.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1391 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends the Government to declassify all military documents dated until 1975. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1370 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recovery, requalification and valuation of the Military Recruitment Centre ( Funchal, Autonomous Region of Madeira ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1008 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — A quality portal for the residential reception of children and young people. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1471 / XIV / 3. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government implement urgent measures to overcome difficulties under the Operational Programme for Social Inclusion and Employment ( POISE ) with regard to training for people with disabilities and disabilities. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] With all the seats in agreement, we continue with the joint vote, in general, of the Draft Resolution Nos 1481 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ) — Established October 20 as the National Accessibility Day and 1491 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends the creation of National Accessibility Day. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the draft resolutions we just voted on are down to 10. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1294 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the dialogue with the US on decontamination and environmental risk prevention measures. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution is down to 2. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1357 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Discontamination of soils and aquifers under the Cooperation and Defence Agreement between Portugal and the United States of America. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution is down to 2. the Commission. We shall now vote, in a global final vote, on the final text, submitted by the Health Committee, concerning Bills Nos. 871 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Set up unequivocally the principle of the most favourable assessment in the evaluations made by medical board ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October ) and 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Medical certificate of Multi-purpose Incapacity - clarifying the processes of review or re-evaluation of the degree of incapacity by means of an interpretative standard to Article 4. the Decree-Law No 202 / 96 of 23 October. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u225	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u226	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u227	Madam President, I would like to announce that we will present a declaration of vote in writing with regard to this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u228	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 765 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — regulates the work arrangements in telework. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions against BE and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now have to vote, in general, the Bill No. 806 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Amend the Labour Code with a view to regulating telework more fairly. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bills Nos 535 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates the right of professional disconnection, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the legal and labor telework regime, ensuring greater protection of the worker (Tenth Nine Amendment to the Labour Code and First Amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 regulating the scheme for repairing occupational accidents and occupational diseases), 790 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees the right of workers to professional disconnection, 791 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the rights of workers under telework, 797 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the right to disconnect, makes the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, 808 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Conducts telework regulation, 811 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Regulates telework in the public and private sectors, creates the flexible work regime and strengthens the rights of workers working in distance work, amending the Labour Code, the General Labour Act on Public Functions and Law No 98/2009 of 4 September 2009 and 812 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the legal and work arrangements for telework ( Tenth Amendment to the Labour Code and First Amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 regulating the system of repair of occupational accidents and occupational diseases ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP and the IL and abstentions from the PSD and the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u229	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u230	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u231	Madam President, it is to inform us that we will present a declaration of vote in writing on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u232	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with the special vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the same legislative initiatives that we have just voted on in general. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u233	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u234	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u235	Madam President, that is to say, we have just voted on the assumption of the indexary votes held in the Commission rather than the overall final vote on the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u236	Yes, sir. We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the committee speciality of the replacement text, which is the vote we have been making and which I have just mentioned. In any case, let us repeat the vote so that there are no misconceptions. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u237	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u238	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u239	Madam President, I just want to know if we have just voted on the replacement text again in the specialty or in a global final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u240	Mr Deputy, the speciality vote was on the assumption of the indexary votes held in the Commission's office.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u241	So, now, are we going to make the overall final vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u242	As Mr Ventura raised the problem that I did not mention that it was the vote on the full vote taken by the Commission, the vote is repeated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u243	I get it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u244	It's just to clarify, so there's no mistake. We move on to the overall final vote of the same replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bills Nos 535 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates the right of professional disconnection, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the legal and labor telework regime, ensuring greater protection of the worker (Tenth Nine Amendment to the Labour Code and First Amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 regulating the scheme for repairing occupational accidents and occupational diseases), 790 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees the right of workers to professional disconnection, 791 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the rights of workers under telework, 797 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the Right to Disengagement, makes the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, 808 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Conducts telework regulation, 811 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Regulates telework in the public and private sectors, creates the flexible work regime and strengthens the rights of workers working in distance work, amending the Labour Code, the General Labour Act on Public Functions and Law No 98/2009 of 4 September 2009 and 812 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the legal and work arrangements for telework ( Tenth Amendment to the Labour Code and First Amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 regulating the system of repair of occupational accidents and occupational diseases ). [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL and the abstention of the PSD were approved.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u245	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u246	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u247	Madam President, to announce that we intend to make an oral vote on this vote, which will be made by Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u248	All right. I thank the Bureau for taking note of this indication. Mr Telmo Correia asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u249	Madam President, for the same purpose as Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, to inform us that we will also make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u250	Thank you. Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u251	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u252	For the same purpose, I assume. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u253	Yes, Madam President, to announce that the PSD will make an oral vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u254	Thank you very much. Be registered. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u255	Madam President, it is for the same purpose to announce that Mrs Diana Ferreira will make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u256	Thank you very much. Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u257	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u258	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u259	Madam President, also to announce that Mr Nuno Sá will make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u260	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u261	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u262	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u263	Madam President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u264	Thank you very much. We shall continue with the votes. We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 780 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation in eligibility for blood, 943 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Promotes blood donation and prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation in eligibility to give blood, 945 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and sexual characteristics in blood donation and 947 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Other Law No. 37 / 2012 of 27 August, preventing discrimination in blood donation due to sexual orientation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 446 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the basis for environmental policy and climate action. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The general vote on the replacement text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, on Bills Nos 131 / XIV / 1, follows. a (PAN) — Climate Base Act, 526 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Climate Policy Framework Act, 577 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves the Basics of Climate Policy Act, 578 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Climate Base Act, 598 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Climate Base Act, 605 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Defines the foundations of climate policy and 609 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Basic law of climate policy. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against IL and the abstentions of the PCP and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u265	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u266	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u267	Madam President, to announce the delivery of a written vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u268	Thank you very much. Be registered. Mr Luís Leite Ramos asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u269	Madam President, to announce that at the end of the vote I will present an oral vote on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u270	All right. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u271	Madam President, I would also like to announce that the CDS-PP will make a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u272	Be registered. Mr Nuno Fazenda, would you like to speak for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u273	Yes, Madam President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u274	Thank you very much. Be registered. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u275	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, although we are still voting on the replacement text in general. It is therefore to announce that we will present an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u276	Thank you very much. We shall proceed to the vote, in the speciality, that is to say, on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission of that replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft Law No 131 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Climate Base Act, 526 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Climate Policy Framework Act, 577 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves the Basics of Climate Policy Act, 578 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Climate Base Act, 598 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Climate Base Act, 605 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Defines the foundations of climate policy and 609 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Basic law of climate policy. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the PCP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u277	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u278	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u279	Madam President, to announce that Mr Nelson Peralta will make an oral statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u280	All right. Thank you very much. Mr. João Oliveira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u281	Madam President, for the same purpose, to inform Mrs Alma Rivera that she will make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs Mariana Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u283	Mr President, for the same purpose, to announce that I will make an oral vote on the last vote, and I would like to correct the meaning of the ENP because I was wrong. In the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bills Nos 535 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 790 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 791 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 797 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 808 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 811 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 812 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), on telework, the ENP voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u284	Madam Member, it does not change the outcome of the vote, but the Bureau records this amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u285	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u286	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u287	Madam President, the NAP intends to correct its vote on Bill No 527 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Amendment to the Criminal Code, exacerbating the penalty for anyone who inflicts ill-treatment on pets, moving to abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u288	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u289	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u290	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u291	Madam President, I would ask for your tolerance for the following: at the beginning of the votes, which, as we know, were a little turbulent, for various reasons, particularly computerized, immediately at the first vote in Supplement II, on a proposal to amend the NAP, amending Article 6 ( 4 ). the Law No 43 / 2012, of 28 August, the PSD marked the vote against. However, we have information that Mr President has announced the set of political forces that have voted against, and the others have voted in favour. by not announcing the PSD vote, it was assumed that we would have voted in favour when it was against. Madam President, I just wanted to clarify for registration, since it does not alter the final outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u292	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Since there are no more requests for the use of the word, then we will turn to oral explanations of vote on the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, concerning Bills Nos 535 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 790 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues, 791 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 797 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 808 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 811 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 812 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). I have the floor for a statement of vote by Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u293	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This process on telework began in April, with the schedule of the Left Block. In fact, when we announced this schedule, the Government said that it was necessary to wait for the Green Paper and the PSD said that it could not be legislated without the decision of social consultation. We weren't waiting, and all right. Today, we have a good law, of which we are proud, in the final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u295	In April, it's good to remember, we were very far from this result. The bill that the Socialist Party here presented was an aberrant and legally tortuous diploma, which would refer the regulation of telework out of the Code, deregulation of working times, not guaranteeing basic rights to workers, and which would have no chance of being approved in this Parliament. In September, the Left Block and the Socialist Party started a negotiating process, with several meetings, with a view to presenting a common proposal, in the specialty. The result of this process led to substantial changes in the position of the Socialist Party, which reflected in new editorials and in new articles, products of this negotiation. The final result of this process, which has also had several developments in the debate in the specialty and the contribution of all parties, is satisfactory and materializes important victories for workers. With the new law, a much more consistent and protective telework regime will be in force. First, telework is regulated in the Labour Code, as it could only be. Secondly, telework standards are now protected by the most favourable treatment, proposals that in the initial projects were only included in the Left Block initiative, but were received by a large majority. Third, the contact time proposed by the PS, which created a time of unpaid availability of the worker, fell the idea of referral to an alleged work by objectives. The telework scheme has the same rules on working time and rest periods as those of the general scheme. Fourth, a employers' duty is established not to contact the worker outside the working time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u296	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u297	I shall conclude, Madam President. I'll ask you for only 30 seconds. Instead of asserting the truth that workers have the right to turn off, as proposed by the PS and the CDS — of course they do! — What this law does, and very well, is to place the burden on the boss. This is the one that demands that workers do not invade their rest time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u298	Thank you very much, Mr President. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u299	We have also acquired rights for parents with children, for informal caregivers, which strengthen the privacy of workers and also strengthen the willingness of the telework regime. It's a good law. The Left Block recognises its proposals in this final text and welcomes the adoption of this law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u300	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two minutes of regiment available. Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u301	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS voted against the replacement text on the telework legal regime because it first considered that the issues in question should have been submitted to the social partners for social consultation, which did not happen. Secondly, because the legislative procedure leading to the presentation of the replacement text was carried out in a speedy and light manner so that it could be voted before the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic. Thirdly, Madam President, it is not recommended to legislate in a hurry, especially when sensitive matters are involved and directly affect the lives of families and business activities. Fourthly, telework should be a flexible form of concerted work between workers and employers, taking into account the type of work, the conditions of the company and the family needs of the worker. Finally, Madam President, contrary to what is intended, the legal regime, which is excessively detailed and imperative, can and will certainly discourage the use of this form of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u302	For a statement of vote, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u303	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the amendments to the telework regime, the PSD abstained for several reasons. Of course, because this process started wrong. And it started bad, because the PS — in fact, in the modus operandi that we have been used to — presented a proposal without the government having listened to the representatives of the workers and employers, thus making the table raza, once again, of social consultation. And for this reason alone, the PSD could not vote in favour. It started wrong, because the PS decided to present a leiavulso project, which removed the telework regime from the Labour Code. It started wrong, too, because it was a project that did not meet both the expectations of the workers and employers. It started wrong, yet, because it mixed subordinate work with unsubordinated work. In view of this situation, and despite considering that it was not time to make profound changes to the regime, the PSD could not, as it was not, remain outside this process and, after hearing all the social partners, it presented two initiatives: a draft resolution, which aimed at an effective listening of the social partners on the green book and a draft law, which met those who were the concerns felt by workers and employers. And in good time it did so, because the participation of the PSD in this process was fundamental to avoiding not all, but some excesses contained in the proposals of other political parties, particularly those of the Socialist Party and the Left Block. From now on, the PS retreat was achieved, which transformed its proposal into an amendment to the Labour Code and dropped the legislation. On the other hand, the PSD has achieved unanimous acceptance of all its proposals, which has enabled everyone to make improvements claimed. Of course, the guarantee of worker's privacy, compliance with the transposition of the European directive which allows telework to workers with children up to eight years old and also that the costs of workers resulting from telework —...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u304	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u305	...I shall be finished, Madam President — they were considered as costs for companies and as non-remuneratives for workers, which was fundamental to everyone, particularly in tax matters, for workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u306	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u307	I'm really going to finish, Madam President. I ask you the same tolerance that you granted to the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u308	Mrs. Deputy, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u309	Nevertheless, we continue to consider that this legislation is not good for workers or employers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u310	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u311	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: The PCP made this discussion defending the exceptionalness of telework, rejecting the worker's house as an extension of the company, rejecting transfers of costs to workers, disresponsibility of employers, irregular hours powered by telework, combating the withdrawal of rights and warning against the dangers of isolation of these workers. The approved text does not fully respond to the concerns we have always pointed out. PS, PSD and BE open doors to the generalisation of telework, to the risk of the disappearance of the job in the company, considering the absence of a time limit — in particular in the proposals of the PS and BE — in the exercise of telework. The CFP proposed a maximum of three years — these proposals were rejected. PSD, PS and BE understood the consideration of the worker's home as a place of work, with the risk of confusion of personal, family, private dimensions with the professional dimension. This text does not properly compensate workers for increased costs and is not defined as a minimum value—as proposed by the PCP and which PS, PSD and CDS rejected. Opens doors to the deresponsibility of companies in the acquisition of equipment, which PS, PSD, BE and CDS have footwear. The CFP argues that the worker must indicate to the company all the instruments he needs, including savings, and the company must acquire, install and maintain them. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u312	It does not effectively combat the isolation of workers; it provides for a two-month presence in the company. The PCP proposed once a week — PS, PSD and CDS rejected. And while considering the right to supplementary and ancillary benefits, it does not specify the meal allowance. The PCP proposed this concrete reference, even to eliminate any risk of employers not paying it — PS, PSD and CDS rejected. We follow up with proposals in the field of equal rights, the guarantee of privacy and safety and health at work, but the lack of answers to other concerns that we have always expressed leads us to vote against. Telework is still working. Follow-up to children, family care, disease care, personal and family life are fundamental rights that cannot be amputated or run by telework, and that risk exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u313	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u314	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. The PCP does not feed illusions about telework or understand it as a panacea for all evils. We spoke with concrete proposals to defend workers in this situation and we will continue to intervene by raising the living conditions of all workers. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u315	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u316	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the pandemic has highlighted the need to legislate. And it was in this sense that the Socialist Party presented itself in this plenary with an extravagant law, to regulate the regime of telework. [[All right.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u317	But since we are not closed on our dogmas and we know how to listen, we considered it good to evolve into the inclusion of changes in the Labour Code, which we did, in fact, with skill and determination. Secondly, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, unlike other parliamentary groups, did not present a diploma to this House without having heard, individually, each of the social partners, in order to deliver their opinions on what should be legislated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and PCP protests.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government announced an agenda for decent work, which discussed in the social consultation, and some of its proposals, discussed in the context of social consultation, were included in our diploma and in the diploma that has just been voted on. Fourthly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have demonstrated well throughout this work—and that is why it was important for the working group, which I would like to welcome, for the effort that has been made by all parliamentary groups, regardless of our differences—that we have been able to present what the Socialist Party has always said should be: an answer to the question of telework, a balanced response between workers and employers, a response that responds to the pressing needs and in which the expenditure should be borne by the employer himself, with the positive right to whom it is working to be able to telework from the time he has children up to 8 years old. And here, Mr Soeiro, I am not going to discuss whose kindness is...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u318	Isn't it the PS? Open... [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u319	...because there's something I know. The proposals...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u320	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u321	I'm done now, Madam President. As I said, the proposals submitted by the Left Block, fortunately, were very consistent with those of the Socialist Party. But that only reveals one thing, Mr President: we were right. And this Assembly of the Republic was right when it voted on a regime that today is a regime that protects employers and protects workers. And that was the responsibility of the Socialist Party at this stage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u322	That of BE's proposals to be very coincident is a favor!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u323	Next time I explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u324	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u325	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP has brought to this House a legislative agenda on the need to densify the legal framework of telework. Having come to a final text, which we subscribe to today, we would like to highlight some aspects that seem positive to us, but also others that clearly leave still a way to go. As we have proposed, it is clear from the law that all additional costs are fully compensated by the employer that the worker supports as a direct consequence of the acquisition of equipment or its use in the performance of the work, which, of course, includes increases in energy, network costs, installed in this telework mode. Our proposal provided that the law set a minimum value for this compensation, but we have not yet achieved it. It is also guaranteed in this proposal the right to professional disconnection, a struggle that the NAP has already brought to this House since the previous Legislature. This solution has been recognised by the teleworker as having the same rights and duties as other employees of the company with the same category or function, i.e. ensuring the right to food allowance for telework workers, as the NAP has always defended, and recognizes the worker's right to telework for non-maintenance informal caregivers, as we have proposed — in this case, workers with children up to 8 years old, although the NAP argues that it should be with children up to 12 years old. in this final proposal there is clearly the need — which represents the way we still have to do in this House — for greater reconciliation between working life and family life: this is the case for workers with minor children with diseases; it is also the case for workers whose place of residence you have in the workplace more than 50 km; and it is also the case of workers with a degree of disability of 60 %. So I wanted to make it clear here that this is a path that the NAP will, of course, continue to do in this House. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u326	We moved on to the oral explanations of vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft Law No 131 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Climate Base Act, 526 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Climate Policy Framework Act, 577 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves the Basics of Climate Policy Act, 578 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Climate Base Act, 598 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Climate Base Act, 605 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Defines the foundations of climate policy and 609 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Basic law of climate policy. To that end, Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u327	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the approval of the Climate Bases Act and welcomes the broad consensus on the need to respond to climate change problems. We had the privilege of coordinating the working group that was set up, a mission carried out by Mr Bruno Coimbra, and thanking all the Members of the various parties involved in the process. I leave a special word of thanks to Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, of the Socialist Party, for his availability, his dedication and his effort in preparing a common text, able to reflect the various sensibilities and perspectives of the different parliamentary groups. [[PSD applause.]] Despite differences, we found a common denominator in this law. Like other parties, we believe that the law could be better, more effective, and with a wording that was clearer, synthetic and understandable to the citizens. But we prefer to focus on the positive points reached in the law that will prevail. It objectively assumes the climate emergency situation and recognizes that the stable climate is a heritage of humanity, so Portugal should contribute to avoiding a rise in global temperature above 1, 5 o C in line with the Paris Agreement. It creates the advice for climate action, which will be a specialized and independent body, composed of personalities of recognized merit, which will take action on climate policy actions and on meeting established goals. It updates the national planning framework on mitigation and adaptation, reinforces policy coordination so that there is greater effectiveness, acting at national, regional, local and sectoral levels, without forgetting the role of civil society and citizens. It ambitiously updates climate goals and priorities, aligns energy policy objectives, sets shorter time horizons in terms of decarbonization. It also defends the possibility of reaching the goal of carbon neutrality earlier than in 2050, if possible until 2045.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u328	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u329	I shall conclude, Madam President. The Climate Bases Act is demanding as it intervenes in multiple domains, has a systemic perspective and will require a significant effort towards its application. It is not enough to make the law, now it is necessary to put it into practice. It is important to welcome the effort to pass this law at a time when COP26 in Glasgow, so Portugal may take pride in the work it has done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u330	I have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u331	Mr. President and Mrs. Members : I would like to begin by saying that almost everything has already been clarified by the PSD Member, but I would particularly like to emphasize the question of the meaning of approving this Climate Bases Act before the end of COP26, which is taking place in Glasgow, for several reasons. Firstly, because the overwhelming majority of Members of this Parliament wanted to conclude this Climate Bases Act as quickly as possible. Secondly, because Portugal has made a pioneering, innovative, ambitious path to meet this climate emergency, recognized by all of us. Thirdly, because it is essential to send a clear message to the countries meeting in Glasgow of the ambitious but realistic programme, which we have just adopted. And fourthly, because for more than 25 years, the COP meetings, despite the best intentions, not only failed to slow down CO2 emissions, not talking about the other greenhouse gases, as they have accelerated—in the 60s increased 0, 85 parts / million / year, in the 90s 1, 5, in the last decade 2, 5 parts/ million. But also because this law is holistic and deals with mitigation, adaptation and also CO2 capture mechanisms, which are essential, and a whole other plethora of issues that are included in this law. I would also like to thank a number of people who have worked enormously in this law at this time. First, to the President of the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, Mr José Maria Cardoso, who was a working group led by Mr Bruno Coimbra, whom we also thank for the immense effort and work that this represented. I would like to thank the Members of the various parliamentary groups, the PSD, the Left Block, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira brought to this final document. And from the PS Parliamentary Group, I would like to thank Members Hugo Pires, Nuno Fazenda and Miguel Costa Matos, responsible for the main skeleton of this law, also Mr João Nicolau, as well as the advisors Ana Luís Pimentel, PS, and Isabel Gonçalves, of the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory. I would like to thank you once again for your confidence in me, proposing that you be the rapporteur. It was an intense work done to reach a text accepted by the vast majority of Members. The text did not meet all the proposals, but I think we have come to a document that should be proud of us, as Members of this House of the Republic. Future generations thank you. [[P.S.P.'s applause standing up, and PSD's colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u332	These applauses justify the tolerance with which the Bureau let Mr Alexandre Quintanilla speak, because he began to express thanks. He could not be interrupting in the midst of thanks, because then those to whom he had not yet thanked would feel very discriminated against. You now have the floor, also for a statement of vote, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u333	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, on November 5, 2021, almost two years after the NAP has entered this House of its proposal for climate law, giving the impetus for the Assembly of the Republic to legislate according to scientific evidence as regards the climate emergency we live, we have finally approved the first Climate Bases Act in Portugal. However, I cannot fail to note that this law had the vote against the Liberal Initiative and the abstention of the CFP. from the NAP, we welcome this important step in combating climate emergency, we consider it positive and we recognize the integration of NAP proposals into this common text. We welcome, of course, all those who have contributed to our arrival here. Forgive me not to mention names, but we make a generic thank you. However, we must not fail to regret the lack of ambition of the central bloc in this process, in particular in dealing with the polluting industries and the interests installed. The NAP here leaves a clear commitment: we will continue to try to approve what we cannot achieve in this Climate Bases Act. We need to be ambitious in our international mitigation efforts. In fact, it has already been mentioned in COP26, where it is important that concrete commitments are actually reached. It is important to introduce cost-effectiveness criteria in investments, since only with good use of available public financial resources will we be able to maximize the result in climate action and combat associated corruption. We also stress the need to make progress in legislation, in particular in order to hold those who destroy ecosystems accountable, with the introduction of the eco-crime in our Penal Code, and the need to be more ambitious in adapting to climate change. This is because, in fact, when we run out of water in the tap it will be too late to act. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u334	For a vote, Mr Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u335	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the world is moving forward at COP26, the Portuguese Parliament is taking a decisive step forward in climate ambition. We therefore welcome this Climate Bases Act, which, from the outset, establishes in Portugal the recognition of the climate emergency situation that we face, also listing the emission reduction targets and the date of neutrality for the climate. Climate justice is also one of the most important principles of this law, assuming a very large centrality of job creation and combating energy poverty. It also recognizes the status of the climate refugee and closes several doors that were previously open. We're not going to have the electricity back to coal, we're not going to have hydrocarbon exploration in the country. It makes huge changes to mobility and how we adapt the territory to changes. This path also enabled some policies, of course, to be defeated by those who said that the law should not have goals or that the goals could go back. It's not like that. The idea of entering the polluter-payer principle into the law was also defeated. Fortunately, that was not the chosen way. Still, the Left Block has some divergences regarding some content of the law, particularly about green taxation and the recognition of carbon markets, which are not a solution, are a problem. However, this law does not create them, it only refers to them, because these policies, unfortunately, are already created. The Left Block proposed goals and policies far more ambitious than those adopted, but although we could have taken a much greater step with this law, a step has still been taken in the right direction and an important step in combating climate change. This law has our vote and our name. In conclusion, I just wanted to acknowledge and appreciate the contribution of scientists, climate activists, of a whole set of non-governmental organizations that have contributed, in hearings and in other ways, to the construction of this law, and, of course, of all those involved, the rapporteur, the committee departments and all the Members who have contributed so quickly at the last moment, that we could take this step forward when the world is taking steps in COP26. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u336	For a statement of vote, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u337	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP does not give up a turning point in environmental policy, because it is only possible to deal with climate change if the predatory logic of nature is reversed so far. The legislation we have is all that logic and therefore a new law was needed to base the environment and the climate action. That was not the prevailing understanding and the reasons for the vote of the CFP are not confused with those of other parties or Members. The text of the law reached contains some important principles, such as the assumption of mitigation objectives, with planning instruments, with the adoption of some good practices by the State and its services, for example in their supplies. But much more was needed, it was necessary to say no to greenwashing and green-painted businesses that will continue to receive benefits. There was a need for a policy of conservation and defense of ecosystems and to end the use obsessed with the profit of our most valuable common goods. When there was a need for a net reduction in emissions and other forms of production, the climate law responds with the carbon market and business around the mechanisms for offset and relocation of emissions. Let us be frank: the carbonic neutrality that climate law refers to is the business of credits to pollute, it is the accounting that involves credits obtained by more than questionable practices, for example in developing countries. It was necessary to have as a national priority the public transport network, particularly the rail network, and a strong incentive to use it free of charge. The law of climate responds with individual transport in electric cars. Anyone who enriches at the expense of the planet's destruction must be held accountable — those responsible for 70% of global emissions — and the products made to last little time, with the production of unnecessary waste, with the long and irrational supply chains that sacrifice national production to market logics of transnational trade treaties. The law of climate responds with green taxation—they pollute, you pay! — and also opens the way for the increase in the price of food on the pretext of environmental costs. A strong energy public sector was needed to give priority to the needs of the country, the potential of renewables and the environmentally responsible use of resources. The climate law responds with the jungle of the liberalized energy market, which means the high prices we pay. With the options of this law comes a new type of negationists: those who deny a true response to environmental problems with the argument that the market is already dealing with it. That is not the solution, but the source of environmental problems. The fight against this mercantilization will continue to be one of the essential elements of the real response to these problems and the CFP does not give up. Because humanity really needs a land to live! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u338	For a statement of vote, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u339	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the effects of the climate change process are somewhat felt worldwide, with enormous environmental, social and economic impacts. For many years, the Greens took up the fight against what was designated by global warming, even by themselves and subject to criticism by the « old men of the Restelo ». The achievement of international agreements has been difficult, with the countries that most emit greenhouse gases to escape their responsibilities of action or even to disengage themselves from the agreements that establish the urgency of reducing emissions in order to limit the increase in the average temperature of the planet. Portugal has a set of legal instruments related to climate issues. The performance of public authorities is decisive, as well as that of economic actors and citizens in general. Nevertheless, the Greens consider it useful to create a specific framework law for climate policy. It was for this purpose that we made our contribution, which is mirrored in the document. This legislative instrument which was voted on today is not the Greens proposal and needed greater discussion and appreciation. However, the political situation and perhaps more, the longing of some people to go to COP26 with an early Basic Climate Law rushed the process. in this law, on the one hand, it was important to ensure the involvement and participation of citizens and the recognition of the role of environmental organisations in the mobilization of society which is included only by the persistence of the Greens. On the other hand, we do not understand the inclusion in this law of the so-called Green Mining. It is not because the political options that become less serious are painted green, to tear nature apart, to destroy biodiversity, to extinguish animals, to destroy the local and regional economy. Today we take another important step towards mitigation and adaptation to climate change, but if there is no investment in state structures, if we do not strengthen supervision and if there is no courage to stop the appetites of profit, little will be done to protect the environment. The truth is that the planet Earth is the common home that we all have to preserve, ensuring the biological diversity it receives and the sustainability of those who inhabit it, from the assurance that after this generation others will come with the same right to live here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-05.u340	We therefore conclude the explanations of vote. For a short time, I did not put to the vote Journals Nos 72 to 76 on the 2nd plenary meetings. the legislative session of this Legislation, held on 28 May and 1, 2, 8 and 9 June 2021. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for them. [[Subject to the vote, the absences of CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were approved unanimously.]] The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda item: in the first item one, as a fixation of the agenda by the IL, will be appreciated Bill No. 920 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Revoking the bill of admission for non-discrimination and stigmatization of citizens in sports premises( 4 ). the amendment to Law No 39 / 2009 of 30 July ; in the second point will be discussed Law No 118 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Change the rates provided for in the Single Circulation Tax Code and extend the measures to support road transport provided for in the Staff Regulations of Tax Benefits. We've reached the end of our meeting today. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 30 minutes.]]
