ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Before we enter today's agenda, which is made up of political statements, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to inform the plenary about several fundamental issues for Parliament's life. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all and to all. First of all, I begin by announcing an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members giving a favourable opinion on the suspension and replacement of Mr Filipe Pacheco ( PS ), elected by the electoral circle of Setúbal, by Mrs Ana Isabel Correia dos Santos, from 28 October 2021, including for a maximum period of 180 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You may proceed, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following diplomas: Bills No. 999 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 1000 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1001 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 1002 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1003 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 1004 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 6. the Commission; Resolution No 30 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ), 31 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ), 32 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) and 33 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ), which fall to 2. the Commission ; and Draft Resolution Nos 1486 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1488 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1489 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1490 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1491 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1492 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1493 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1494 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 1495 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u5	I understand some perplexity on the part of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for having put so many legislative initiatives into the Bureau, when it is known that any initiative has to be debated, voted in general, in speciality and in a comprehensive final vote. But every party is free to do whatever it takes. Let us therefore start the first item on the agenda. For a political statement, Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was surprising that we heard Mr. Director of the CIAP ( Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ), Prosecutor Albano Pinto, 'denouncing the government's lack of investment in justice and in particular in combating economic and financial crime. And I say it was no surprise because the PSD has long denounced the lack of means, technical and human, to combat the complexity of economic and financial crime. The Director of the DCIAP said publicly that there were no financial experts, computer experts, accounting experts and means to investigate. It also criticised the fact that only 0, 4 % of the nearly 270 million euros that the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) reserved for the justice sector to be allocated to the DCIAP and the Attorney General's Office of the Republic. I would like to quote what the Director of the Department of Justice said, so that there will be no distortions: « Someone who has drawn up the framework of importance to be allocated throughout the Ministry of Justice considered it more important to allocate EUR 4, EUR 6 million to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice. It also considered it more important to allocate to a statistical division 26, 3 million and considered it even more important to assign to the Institute of Financial Management 243 million. And for the Attorney General's Office of the Republic he allocated EUR 1 million. » These were the words of Mr. Director of the CIAP. The Attorney-General of the Republic has said that Mr. Director of the CIAP, also admitting the Government's lack of investment in combating crime, in particular in combating economic and financial crime, saying that — and I quote — "the core of technical advice providing support to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the economic, financial, banking, accounting and securities market" (...) is defective. These words are from Mrs. Procurator. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that without eggs there are no omelettes. The investigation of economic and financial crime requires the necessary means and I refer, for example, to the investigation of money laundering crime, which always presupposes the investigation of the previous crime when the crime of money laundering is involved, one of the most serious crimes. In criminal proceedings, morbidity occurs at the investigation stage, during the course of the investigation. That's where morassity resides. It is urgent to combat this slowdown, and it is unacceptable that a computer, financial or accounting expertise will be completed for years, as is the case in the courts on a daily basis. The Public Prosecutor himself has been hiring — no matter what! — the conduct of outsourcing expertise to other entities, with all the damage that this causes, in particular to the extent of the independence of the expertise to be covered. We must not forget that an expertise is the technical-scientific judgment which is subtracted from the judge's free assessment of the evidence. It's almost a sentence, and you need to be very careful about it. There is a lack of investments in structural and indispensable areas to combat corruption and related crime, cybercriminality and forensic expertise, as well as the necessary attachment of the scientific police. And the expert evidence is fundamental to the thorough investigation and instruction of the processes that are submitted to trial, and of course the lack of means undermines investigations and compromises the purposes of justice. It should be noted that the late State budget submitted by the Government, with regard to the sector area of justice, does not cover these failures, however and despite the PRR. Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice came to the ground to defend the adequacy of the means allocated to criminal investigation and appealed to the criticism of the Director of the CIAP of 'complaints' and'mediatic frenzies' — these words are from the Secretary of State and not mine — writing that those statements, and again quoting the Secretary of State, «are in line with the usual complaints from trade unions and those responsible for redundant structures which consume a lot of resources and produce insufficiently». We are obviously repudiating these statements by the Secretary of State, who seem to us clearly unhappy, and we recall that only in the Public Prosecutor's Office there are a considerable shortage of 1500 prosecutors, no longer to mention the lack of judicial officials, i.e. judicial officers. In addition to the lack of technical and human resources, and despite the weights, it is also important to provide the legal framework for effective legislative instruments to combat corruption and related crime, crimes that undermine the rule of law and democracy. The PSD has introduced several legislative initiatives to combat this type of crime, which aim at changes in substantive and adjective or procedural law, in order to combat morbidity and to strengthen the mechanisms to combat corruption and related crime, and, very important, without jeopardizing the guarantees of defence of citizens and fundamental rights, not giving in to demagogy and ideas that seem simpler, but which do not serve the purposes of the citizens, do not serve the purposes of justice. The PSD is available in the very short time left by this legislature to help our legal system to be more effective in combating this crime, that everything is mined and corrode. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u7	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered, in order to make requests for clarification, five Members. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u8	Mr President, I will respond in two groups, one in two and the other in three.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u9	You have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u10	Mr President, very late to all and to all. We greet the PSD for bringing to plenary the subject of corruption — a scourge! Despite what we have heard so many times, Portugal is not an oasis of transparency. In our country, corruption costs about €34 000 annually. However, only last year, more than half of the cases of corruption ended up in the archives. Because of the white collar crimes associated with BES, the country may spend almost EUR 11 billion in total. Each year, for tax evasion, about EUR 1000 million is lost, i.e. € 101 per Portuguese and the equivalent of the annual salary of nearly 50 000 nurses. These millions are not just numbers, they are values that could give a boost to the development of the country and to the improvement of people's lives. And the NAP has been on the front line of the fight against this scourge. In the fight against conflict of interest — one of the biggest causes of corruption in Portugal — it was the PAN who did the most in this legislature, with the approval of a lobbying law which, strangely, will have the vote against the PSD. In addition, the PSD also voted against measures that block the rotating doors between the commercial bank and the Banco de Portugal, which bring greater transparency on the part of politicians and which limit the links of Members to football clubs. It was thanks to the NAP that in the State budget for 2021 more means were achieved to combat corruption and human resources were provided for to combat fraud and economic and financial crime, as well as the creation of centres of competence and knowledge networks that add all entities working in the fight against corruption. at the fiscal level, it was the NAP that pressured the government, during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Council, to adopt the CBCR Directive, and this happened. The NAP, with only three Members, is proud of the work it has done. We already have a lot of words and little action from the PSD. In the ‘open bar’ of the public contract, to which some have called ‘invitation to steal’, we saw the PS proposing an amendment and the PSD signing cross. Don't you regret it? The regime of the free zone of Madeira has served as a laundry service to entities as recommended as the football magnates, Angolan cleptocracy or the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), and the PSD, while voting against the cost-benefit study recommended by the NAP, still proposed during this legislature that new entities should be accepted by the end of this year when the time limit was supposed to end in 2020. Don't you regret it? Don't you think the legacy of the PSD in this legislature doesn't agree with the speech made here today? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u11	To make a request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mónica Quintela, I would like to begin by congratulating you on bringing this issue to debate, because unfortunately the fight against corruption remains a current issue. And it is a struggle that is even required to credible the institutions of our democracy, but also to defend and affirm a culture of democratic responsibility. For this reason, it is necessary not only to take steps at the legislative level but also at the level of the technical and human resources of the criminal investigation bodies, which, moreover, are decisive in this fight, as the honourable Member very well mentioned, because the investigating entities are often confronted with the lack of means, especially at a time when we find a great deal of sophisticated instruments used for the practice of corruption crimes. As regards the legislative plan, the Greens have already put forward a number of proposals for this fight, including the creation of the unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth and the end of the golden visas, a mechanism that has shown to be a failure in job creation and has also been associated with illegal practices, such as corruption, peculatory, money laundering, trade in influences, among many others. More: The Greens also presented a proposal to move towards ending tax havens, which only serve for large economic groups and great fortunes create highly developed mechanisms to escape taxes or, then, to proceed with money laundering and hide other crimes associated with corruption. In fact, the scandalous processes of BCP ( Banco Comercial Português ), BPP ( Banco Privado Português ) or BPN ( Banco Português de Negócios ), which indicated practices related to companies based exactly in tax havens and whose invoice ended up being paid by Portuguese taxpayers. On the other hand, from a fiscal point of view, there are just millions and millions of euros that the States no longer receive and that they would need to do so much to public services and to improve people's environmental standards. What we are asking, Mrs Mónica Quintela, is whether the PSD considers it possible and effective a strategy to combat corruption that leaves out the effort to end these manoeuvres that tax havens represent and that only serve for some people not to pay taxes and to hinder or even prevent the investigation of crimes associated with corruption. Basically, what we ask you is the following: does it consider, or does it not, that ending tax havens would also be an indirect way of strengthening criminal investigation? [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u13	In reply, Mrs Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u14	Mr President, I am grateful for the requests for clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Mr Nelson Silva, from the PAN, and José Luís Ferreira, from the PEV. I begin by answering Mr José Luís Ferreira's last question, when he asks if we are available and what we think. It is clear that it is effective, for the fight against corruption, to end tax havens, but we are not utopian and, as tax havens are spread throughout the world, everywhere, we cannot risk having a blind attitude, with clear damage to our country. I repeat: they are scattered all over the world—in the Cayman Islands, in the Virgin Islands, in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u16	This is so that we do not have situations like that of Jerome Martins, of Pino Doce, who put his headquarters in the Netherlands. So utopiatically, it's like all the ideology on the left: it's very pretty, but then it's kind of slashing in practice. There has to be, and here we agree, a concerted action... [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] ... of all States so that all this is possible and can happen, and we praise the initiatives they have taken. Mr Nelson Silva, I confess that when I heard him speak, I remembered this old adage that my grandmother used to say: « Assumption and spring water each takes whatever he wants».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u18	I was very pleased to see the self-reliance that you have done and to know how satisfied you are with the work that you have done, which has been very good, indeed, with three Members. It was a commendable job, only that the proposals they made were made for several shortcomings. In particular, many of them are full of good intentions — we recognize that! — but then they are inexhaustible, either because of practical problems and technical and legal deficiencies that result, or because they reveal a great lack of knowledge about how things work in practice. He once again spoke of Madeira's issue and said that the PSD signed the law of public procurement from cross. Mr. Deputies, the PSD never signs anything cross.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u20	All decisions and votes of the PSD, whether for or against abstention, shall be duly weighted and informed in the light of all factors to be equated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u21	Mrs Mónica Quintela, three further requests for clarification follow. To that end, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Monica Quintela, I am sorry to mention the great relevance of the matter that the PSD has chosen for this afternoon's political declaration. I believe, however, that the approach you have chosen is not the one that seems most relevant to us, to be very sincere. That is, we need to have an approach to combating corruption that focuses on solutions, which focuses on concrete proposals so that the Portuguese legal system is as capable and effective as possible in this fight. We focus on what some people call 'complaints' and others call something else is certainly not the most relevant, and this underfunding of research for the purposes of economic crime is a chronic underfunding. Therefore, it embraces one government after another and, on that, it is not worth spending much time. What matters, Mrs Mónica Quintela, is precisely what we realize is that this challenge we are facing is a challenge of the greatest urgency. It has always been and now more than ever, taking into account the enormous volume of resources that will be injected into the country and which, in fact, has recently led the Observatory of Economics and Fraud Management to warn, using another adage than the one that Mrs Deputy used recently, that "the greater the cake, the greater the temptation". Therefore, we need to equip ourselves with the tools needed to prevent corruptive behaviors. From this point of view, the same observatory says that, since there is no criminalization of illicit enrichment, the law is in fact an instrument that makes the work of the authorities difficult. Therefore, this is the first of the challenges: to know whether, even in this legislature, we will be, or not, in a position to take the necessary steps to make the minimum, which is what was proposed by the Association of the Portuguese Judges' Union, i.e. the criminalization of unjustified enrichment, adding a duty of justification to the duty of declaration and punishing non-justification. What I want to ask, Mrs. Member, is whether the PSD agrees to take this step, supporting the bills, including the one of the Left Block, that go in that direction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u23	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u24	Mr President, Mrs Mónica Quintela, I would say that it was necessary to spend this time so that there could be an intervention on which we could say that we basically agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u25	There were others!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u26	I could have discovered that before the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u27	Better late than ever, he will say, but it is a fact that the fight against corruption and the adoption of policies and legislative mechanisms to combat corruption is a purpose that, of course, we share not only in words but in acts. It was on a proposal from the CFP that it was included in the State budget for 2021 for the adoption of a multiannual programme of investment in criminal research which made the rigorous identification of investment needs, in particular in the most deprived sectors, in particular in the expertise of the Attorney-General of the Republic, in particular in the core of technical advice, or in the judicial police, where the honourable Member stressed, and it is true, that there is a huge delay in the responses to the expertise needed in criminal investigation. Obviously, according to the State budget, this plan should already be drawn up, but it is not yet, and in response to a question which we ourselves asked the Government on this matter, it was told us that it would still be in preparation. We hope that this plan will be drawn up, because the State budget for 2021 is still in force by the end of the year and that is indeed a necessity. But there is another issue that the honourable Member has addressed and which is very relevant: the fate of the legislative initiatives presented during the debate on the so-called 'legislative package against corruption', which have gone down without a vote to the Commission. Our purpose in this matter is that what is possible to close in this Parliament should be closed as soon as possible. Of course, we do not think that we should legislate to go wrong, and we admit that there may be legislative processes that lack better weight, but what is possible to consensualize and get a majority vote in this Parliament must be done. The CFP Parliamentary Group, as a request for clarification of its intervention, expresses here the availability and commitment to work and close legislative processes that can contribute positively to the necessary fight against corruption in our country as soon as possible. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u28	To request clarification, Mrs Cláudia Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the choice of the subject and I also greet Mrs Monica Quintela. We know that the fight against economic and financial crime is a priority of our Government, which has presented us, months ago, a National Strategy for Combating Corruption which is already contained in various bills pending eventual approval in this Parliament. We know that this strategy is very ambitious and quite innovative and we all know that last Wednesday the opposition parties have dropped the State budget to 2022, which will naturally anticipate the end of this legislation. We know that the Lead of the Budget was not what the Government wanted, it was certainly not what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wanted, and we assume that it does not correspond to what most Portuguese would like either, but that is what happened last Wednesday. Thus, on Thursday, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group made a request for the urgent scheduling of the debate on the anti-corruption package. No one else made that request, only the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Following this request, we are committed to drawing up a text, which we can call'replacement text', which we want to bring together the broadest possible consensus, saving the essential of the anti-corruption strategy. in this text—for our part, it is ready and we are available to share with the other parliamentary groups—that we want it to be as consensual as possible, we maintain a proposal that emerged in 2019 in the electoral programme of the Socialist Party. I am referring to the creation of an accessory penalty that will prevent politicians convicted of corruption from being elected or appointed for public office for a period of up to 10 years. Let's keep that purpose. We are prepared to ignore the solutions that have caused the most controversy, particularly the agreements on the sentence, and we are willing to accept suggestions from the PSD, particularly those relating to the procedural status of the public, which we find very relevant. The time is scarce and the very simple question that we want to leave the Social Democratic Party is on which of two possible ways they want to go, and it is certain that the way in which the honourable Member concluded her exhibition seems to me to hope that they have chosen the path that seems right to us. The first way would be to give up the search for a consensus solution and to adopt the narrative that nothing has been done to combat corruption. The second way is to show willingness to work with us — Mr António Filipe has already expressed this willingness on the part of the CFP and I think that Mr José Manuel Pureza has expressed the same willingness on the part of the Left Block — in a consensus solution that contributes to the fight against corruption and serves the interests of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u30	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u31	Mr President, may I conclude by quoting Mr Santinho Pacheco: « Fire on the spot! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u32	In reply, Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u33	Mr President, I would like to thank the constructive requests made by the honourable Members. Deputies José Manuel Pureza, Antonio Filipe and Claúdia Santos. I begin by saying to Mr. José Manuel Purez that the PSD, in the context of the numerous proposals to combat corruption, presented one concerning the illicit enrichment that does not sicken the vices of constitutionality that the previous ones were ill. We are legislating to be vetted and not passing is of no interest at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u35	That is why we have put forward a proposal that is effective and that effectively combats unjustified enrichment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u36	That is the so-called act of contrition!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u37	Mr António Filipe, let me tell you that we have agreed in many situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u38	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u39	The honourable Member is well prepared legally and I have had the satisfaction of seeing the right side whenever it is at issue, even in the discussions in 1. the Commission, the common good and the interest of speed and harmony of justice. It was on the right side in relation to our proposals for electronic distribution of cases, it was on the right side when it opposed the amendments that the Government intended to make to the Civil Procedure Code and we have much to unite with us on matters of justice that are structured in principle. We hope to continue to have more in this regard, because I know that the scope and what moves us is to legislate to combat this scourge of corruption and economic and financial crime. Mrs Claúdia Santos, it is true — and I have already had the opportunity to thank her — that an effort has been made to draw up a consensual text. I welcome with gratitude and, above all, with great satisfaction, because it is good for our legal order, which has dropped the agreement on sentences, which for us was a red line.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u41	It was very pleased that we saw that. We can work—and our spirit is always constructive—in which for us, PSD, it is very important: reform of justice and, in this particular case, reform of the anti-corruption strategy. If possible, we want to bridge with all parties, because this text has to be consensual. They count on us, we raise our sleeves and, repeating what I said, "Fire to play", Mrs. Deputy! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u42	For a political statement, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It started yesterday in Glasgow on 26. the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, COP26. This conference emerges after a new United Nations report which concluded that the effects of climate change will be felt more quickly and more intensely than expected. This is the struggle of our lives, but nevertheless the great economies want everything to remain the same for nothing to change. For this reason, on the eve of COP26, the great polluters met at the G20 Summit in Rome, but the encounter of nothing served for the climate. COP26 stands out, of course, by the absences of the Presidents of China and Russia. Bolsonaro also missed the call. There is, however, an absence in COP26 that concerns us very much: that of Antonio Costa. The Prime Minister of the European country who will suffer the most severe impacts of climate change has decided to miss. Portugal has at risk 150 000 people with the rise of the average seawater level and the risk of fire will also be more severe. António Costa missed COP26, as well as its policies failed in the country to respond to climate change. This absence ultimately legitimizes the absences of other European and world leaders. It's a terrible weather service. António Costa is the one who, in campaign, promises, with a grave voice, to teach the Galp, but it was the same Prime Minister who allowed the closure of the Matosinhos refinery and left the dismissed workers. This closure, it is said, was completely null at the level of emissions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Glasgow Summit may be the burial of the Paris Agreement. The State emission reduction commitments point to an increase in temperature by 2, 7 °C when the Paris Agreement aimed to reduce this increase to 1, 5 °C or, at most, 2 °C. The first news from Glasgow is quite worrying. Soon on the first day yesterday, an agreement was announced with pump and circumstance to end the deforestation, particularly of Amazonia. It is a good title, but it hides reality: deforestation can continue another decade and even in 2030 there is no obligation for it to end. More elucidative is that this agreement replaces another one indicating 2020 as the final date for the deforestation of Amazonia. Of course, the Brazilian Government has signed this new agreement with pleasure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u45	Another of COP26's priorities is the implementation of Article 6. the, i.e. the creation of a global carbon market, similar to that already existing in the European Union. It is ironic that this is now being done when the European Commission itself, which is enthusiastic about this solution, is investigating its own carbon market for suspicions of speculation. In fact, the market is flooded with investment funds that have nothing to do with emissions and that only seek a profitable market at the cost of people's lives and at the cost of the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u47	Worse in the last decade, this market has given EUR 50 billion to Europe's major polluters and EUR 1000 million to the main polluters in Portugal — Cimpor, Petrogal, Secil, among others. This is the reality of financing the climate response. This is the reality we want to transform. We don't need a mega jackpot for big polluters, we need money for public investment. Market solutions are false solutions — on the carbon market, but also on a daily basis. Consider the case of fuels: non-comportable prices for families, exorbitant profits for oil companies. We do not need to punish the population with high prices for fantastic profits. We need a public company of renewable energy and policies to create alternatives, investing in free public transport, in rail and, yes, in housing, so that it is not a super cost so that the people have to get away from the place where they work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u49	In fact, a climate policy against the people is a guarantee of a defeated policy. over the years, it was this real economy that created social inequality, while at the same time producing the environmental and climate disaster that we are witnessing. From Glasgow cannot leave the same language, they have to come out binding solutions that truly respond to the climate solution that the world demands. And these solutions have to go through the effective reduction of emissions in the richest countries. International solidarity must also be present. We therefore regret that the Portuguese Government has failed the international commitment to finance the Green Climate Fund, an essential fund for the response to climate change in the countries of the South global, which cannot repeat the development model that the rest of the globe has followed and that has brought us the climate crisis. The populations that have contributed less to climate change are the ones that suffer the most. It is necessary to pay this historical debt on the planet and on the country. Ensuring a climate response that responds to job creation and social justice is the ambition we want for Portugal in the basic laws of climate, as well as more ambitious goals and a path of social equality to reach there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u50	Mr Nelson Peralta, you have signed up to make requests for clarification five. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to answer? [[Pause.]] Mr Peralta has indicated to the Bureau that he will respond first to two requests for clarification and then to the remaining three. You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the theme brought by the Left Block — the COP26, which is held in Glasgow and which calls us all to the challenge of combating climate change. All countries, including Portugal, should strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time developing measures to adapt to the impacts that will affect us. in this Parliament at the end of the cycle, we have yet to say on this subject: we hope that, together with the efforts of all parties, we will be able to conclude the basic law of climate, which is being concluded in the field of expertise. Despite the differences, we must take pride in the path we have been going here. We started from very different bills, conducted dozens of auditions and achieved a basis for convergence in the common text presented by Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, to whom we take advantage of to publicly thank all your efforts. Combating climate change requires the commitment and active involvement of all, not only of the State. We believe in the importance of innovation, creativity, engineering, the spirit of initiative, entrepreneurship, because we need new solutions to problems that are increasingly challenging. So I ask the Left Block how they look at this dimension linked to private agents who are so often diabolical. Can companies have a constructive and positive role in climate action? [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u52	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Nelson Silva, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u53	Mr President, Mr Nelson Peralta, the NAP, in fact, stresses the seriousness of the absence of the Prime Minister at COP26. We share this feeling and, of course, we have already said it and publicly stated it, because it is indeed a disappointment to this struggle of a government that says everything to do, but that, in reality, little or nothing decides to do. But this political statement from the Left Block is very interesting. Why is that interesting? Well, it is interesting to highlight the vigor with which the Left Block manifests itself in this statement against so-called 'polluting companies' and then advocates by the livestock industry and agricultural industries, when they pollute as much as the entire public transport industry globally.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u54	Hey! Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u55	They say they want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but at the same time they advocate cheaper fuels, which will encourage that same emission of polluting gases to our atmosphere. Mr. Nelson Peralta, where are we? Does not the Left Block use climate change as a propagandistic cloth and, in its action, demonstrates, in fact, a defense of the perpetuation of this productive and extractive economic model? Mr. Nelson Peralta, how are we? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u56	In reply, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u57	Mr President, Mr Hugo Oliveira, we are in fact also very committed to the basic laws of climate. We want it to be a reality as soon as possible and we are committed to ensuring that it can be voted on tomorrow, in particular, and that the process will soon be completed. What the PSD did not tell us is that it does not want the basic laws of climate to have targets and also does not tell us what targets it defends for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the country. More: whenever there is a vote, the PSD votes for less ambition.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u58	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u59	Mr President, instead of talking about public policies — which can be decided on in this Parliament — here he says that what is needed is entrepreneurship, private initiative, a creative spirit, i.e. a set of phrases made that say absolutely nothing. The problem we have has been brought about by the market. And now you have not said anything about the issue of the European carbon market, which is being accused by the European Speculation Commission. Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP, I should like to say that although he agrees with us when we say that the absence of Antonio Costa is serious given the importance of the matter. The honourable Member has been very explicit about the policies of the NAP and has told us about the livestock industry. Well, the Left Block has a huge history of struggle, particularly in Leiria, and where there are many pig growings, for this problem to be solved. We have made a requirement to the country for a different model of production, but the proposal that the NAP always presents in the State budgets is different because there is a rate on meat and other foods. So people will pay more when they want to buy a basic food — agree or not, meat is a basic food. The honourable Member also said that we advocate cheaper fuels. I must say that in the country only the big oil and the NAP are celebrating the fact that fuels are more expensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u61	What we want is investment in free railways and free public transport, what we want is a different organization of the territory so that oil is no longer an essential good, but today there are hundreds of thousands of workers who need a car for their movement between home and work. Putting a burden on this essential good does nothing to protect the planet or the environment, it is only a punishment for the poor, it is a punishment for the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u63	And this is the big difference between the environmental policy of the Block and that of the PAN. In other words, we understand that it must be a social justice policy, a climate justice where those who have suffered the most with climate change are now not punished again with a very high price. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u64	Mr President, you have three further requests for clarification. To make the first request for clarification of this group, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u65	Mr President, Mr Nelson Peralta, The Greens value the subject chosen for debate, which we will also refer to as follows. Environmental problems are becoming increasingly evident and it is urgent not to keep putting their heads on the sand. Goals, commitments and promises made solemnly by various governments and at various summits are no longer new. What is needed is to take concrete measures and I think you will agree with me when I say that there is an area in which these measures are urgent, which is the forest. We know that today, at COP26, more than 100 world leaders will undertake to stop the deforestation by 2030 to combat climate change. This is too far a compromise, and it is a step in the recognition of the importance of forests. In Portugal, we continue to take steps in this area: on the one hand, in the expansion of the native forest area adapted to the climatic conditions of the territory, in fact, we have been talking about this for years and year by year we see the indigenous areas reduce in a worrying way ; on the other hand, in the fight against the lack of response to the consequences of the horrible fires of 2017 and 2018. Just walk around the country to see the state of these areas, with invasive species everywhere and areas where the dominant color is still black. And it's not just in private areas, just see, for example, Leiria pinhal. That's not because there's no money. In fact, the Greens proposed that the money collected from the sale of burning wood should be applied to the pineapple, but the government did not make this option, although we are talking about the possibility of immediate carbon fixing. Does it not seem to you, Mr President, that more than words are needed, strengthening the teams of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et des Forestas) to ensure the necessary investments, for example, with regard to the recovery of the Leiria pine?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u66	Mr Hugo Pires has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mr Nelson Peralta for the relevance of the issue he has brought here. I wanted to start by saying that joining an environmental and energy crisis to the health, economic and social crises was all that the world didn't need, but joining these crises was all that the Portuguese didn't deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to remind Mr Nelson Peralta that his party is one of the main responsible for the political crisis we are experiencing and that is one of the reasons that our Prime Minister cannot be present at COP26. We have a political crisis in our country! But more than promises, more than proclamational speeches, what really matters to people's lives is day-to-day, are the actions and, above all, let me tell you, the Socialist Party and the Government receive no environmental lessons from any other party in this House. It is that the Socialist Party was the first party to present the first law of climate bases and, according to ZERO (Sustainable Earth System Association), our bill is the most complete that is under discussion in this House, which we hope will be approved next Friday. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party were also the first to make the global commitment to carbon neutrality in 2050. The Government of the Socialist Party has proved — the Commission's reports are revealing this — that Portugal is one of the countries that is in a better position to achieve the 2030 targets. This work has the mark of the Socialist Party, has the mark of this government and has the mark of this parliamentary bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have heard right here saying that a basic law is needed, but the ambition with which the right wants to fight climate change is very little intense. In fact, I would like to remind the right that it was your bench, this or the previous one, I believe, which voted against the PART (Tax Reduction Support Programme), the single steps, a structural measure to reduce carbon emissions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was this right that put the projects for renewable energy and electric mobility into the drawer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u69	Finally, Madam President, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether the political crisis that the Left Block has caused is worth it because we cannot call into question all the progress we have made over the years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u70	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u71	Mr President, Mr. Nelson Peralta, first of all, I would like to thank you for the topic you have brought us here, which is a topical issue. This House ends up mirroring the way the discussion is held at the highest level, in this case at COP26, in Glasgow, like what has happened in previous COPs. We are concerned that there are no answers if we do not face the real and profound problems of environmental policy, and therefore we are concerned that no one wants to confront the 'elephant in the middle of the room', which is the way of production that we have, inadequate to the needs, inadequate to the finitude of resources and that it does not serve the well-being or the environment or social. When we allow ourselves to produce not to satisfy needs but to profit and that this can even mean more waste, when we allow consumer goods to have a predefined validity to feed their own consumption rather than serve the need for it to be supposed, when we send out from the other side of the world what we produce here, when we continue to stimulate the use of individual transport, whether using other technologies, which they call 'green', but we continue not to take over the financing here, for example, of the PART so that public transport can be the predominant reality, when we transform the right to pollute into a business, giving carbon credits and making the right to pollute a large market that many resort to profit, we are ignoring the fundamental issue and we are running away from the problems and the reality that we have in front of our eyes. What the CFP cannot accept — and we want to know what the position of the Left Block on this matter is — is that those who pay the bills are, once again, those who work, the people, those who have less responsibility for all this and those who have less responsibility in the world. In fact, countries that have not polluted so much or whose historical responsibility is not the same, because they are less developed, are now being called to be colonized, otherwise, so that rich countries gain pollution credits. Therefore, this is what we cannot accept, just as we cannot accept that the costs of pollution are transferred to those who have less responsibility for this, that is, to the common citizen who spends his life paying taxes and taxes, while who really pollutes it remains absolutely inconceivable. We would like to know whether or not you are accompanying this view. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u72	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr. Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u73	Mrs President, Mrs Mariana Silva, pointed out, and quite rightly, that the agreement on deforestation, which has already emerged from COP26, is an outrage. We had an agreement, signed in 2014, which said that the deflowering of Amazonia ended in 2020, and now in 2021, a new agreement was signed that says it ends in 2030. And this is over, because it's not binding. Now, this shows very well how the world's elites are failing in the answer to our planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u75	But here too in our country we have a problem with our forest. Our forest is dedicated to the production of paper, which is an increased risk of fire, even more with climate phenomena such as those we have. There is a lack of vigilantes and lack of sapphires in the national forests and protected areas, so the ICNF staff framework should be increased. With this, I am going to reply to Mr Hugo Pires by repeating what has already been said before, i.e. « presumption and water is selling each one to whatever he or she wants ». The honourable Member has done a great deal of self-reliance, but Portugal is one of the worst countries in the European Union with regard to the protection of forests and is also one of the worst countries in the European Union to manage their waste. Therefore, all this presumption is not based on reality. In addition, the honourable Member, in a kind of disagreement, will look for the question of the political crisis. I must say that people who are at home and who look at what is happening—that is, the Left Block defending pensions, work and the National Health Service (SNS)—do not interpret this as a political crisis, interpret as the essential response to their lives. In fact, so much so that many of these measures the Left Block proposed were defended by the Socialist Party when it was in opposition. [[PS protests.]] Apparently, when he's in power no longer wants to, he doesn't want to give in to the great patronage. The honourable Member also pointed out that Portugal was the first country to announce climate neutrality by 2050. It is always the same story, they repeat it many times, but already after that many other countries announced climate neutrality by before 2050. So if, as you said, we are in a better position to meet the goals, then perhaps it would be time to anticipate this goal for climate neutrality and include it in the basic laws of the climate we propose. [[Protests by PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto.]] António Costa is the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party and he is the Prime Minister supported by the Socialist Party, obviously, and the fact that he did not go to COP26 legitimately the positions of the President of China, the President of Russia and the President of Brazil, which is a bad service for the country, but also a bad service for the international community. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u76	The Portuguese Government failed to call COP26, thus not responding to the country's needs. Mrs Alma Rivera addressed one of the issues that will be most essential and central in the COP, which is whether the cut-off of emissions is made in rich countries or whether, on the contrary, the rich countries continue with the economy exactly equal and then compensate for the so-called offset in the countries of the global south. We believe that the cut must be made with a change in the economy of the rich countries and with support for the countries of the global south for the transition. Everyone can see the announcement of a large oil that also works in Portugal and that it is carbon neutral. Why? Because it pollutes at ease, but then it makes solar furnaces in Mexico so that the population does not burn wood and this is already considered depollution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u77	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u78	What is really needed is to change the economy in the richest countries, which were those who benefited from a development model that is unrepeatable globally. By the way, I would like to say that the Portuguese Government has failed its commitment to the United Nations to finance the green fund to support developing countries. It's a big failure of the Portuguese government! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u79	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since last week the debate on the State budget was closed with words of beautiful songs, it occurs to me - to return to José Mário Branco and quote a simple verse: «there was someone who was wrong here». The parties on the right and the commentators at their service were deceived, who accused the PCP of turning the debate on the state budgets into a mere stage, in which the PCP and PS simulated differences when it was known that, in the end, they would both vote for the Budget. Those who felt that the CFP would feel obliged to make the State budget viable were wrong, even in the face of the government's refusal to make options that made commitments and signal a sense of response to the most pressing problems facing the country. Those who felt that the PCP would be intimidated by the current victimisation campaign, designed to convince Portuguese that rejection of a budget proposal that only has PS support is the responsibility of the PCP rather than the PS. The CFP did not engage in the debate of the State budget for 2022 for the purpose of rejecting and addressed the debate on this proposal in the same spirit as the debate on all the budget proposals: those in which it abstained, those in which it decided to vote against. We therefore say with great tranquillity: the State budget for 2022 was not approved because the government did not want it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u82	Mr President of the Republic was mistaken if he thought that threatening the CFP with the convening of early elections would have any effect on the independence of the CFP to take its own decisions. by threatening the convening of elections as a form of pressure on a sovereign decision of this House, the President of the Republic himself became a factor of political instability.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u84	by threatening the convening of elections, Mr President of the Republic gave the Government the signal that it needed to reject any serious convergence effort that would enable the Budget to be viable and to present the elections asking an absolute majority to allow it to govern without any intention to respond to national problems. If anyone thought that the PCP made its decisions by giving in to blackmails or threats, or on the basis of short-term electoral calculations, he was very wrong. The meaning of our position was to find a solution to national problems. The rejection of a proposal for a State budget does not imply either the resignation of the Government, as the Government well knows, and therefore has not resigned, nor the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic. The country is not in twelfths, nor under a management government; there is a Parliament and a government in full office. Two months ago the 2021 budget has been in force to implement, there is legal provision for the presentation of a new budget proposal and there is no cataclysm for the country to live a few months under duo-decem until the adoption of a new budget, as has already happened several times and how will inevitably be the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic. There will only be dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic because the President of the Republic so wishes and the Government so wishes. The CFP is not afraid of elections. We know that, for the dominant social communication, a budget that had all the defects in the world, when it was thought that the CFP would make it viable, it became a well of virtues, because the CFP rejected it. We know from the trumpets that will sound to the four winds seeking to hold the PCP accountable for all the evils in the world, but none of them intimidates us or makes us change our course.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u86	Ah, brave!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u87	The PCP will go to elections, whether they are when they are, with the calm awareness that everything has been done in defense of the best interests of the people and the country. The CFP will go to elections, whether they are when, with its proposals to increase the national minimum wage and to increase wages as a national emergency, to value reforms and pensions, to free of charge day care, to rescue and strengthen the National Health Service, to value public services, to guarantee the right to housing, to tax justice, to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2015, the PCP was decisive for PSD and CDS to be removed from power, even when the PS had already complied with the idea that it would remain in opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u88	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u89	The CFP was decisive for a turn-around of national political life and for the replacement of rights and incomes that had been brutally withdrawn from the Portuguese people by the Governments of the PSD and the CDS. The CFP appreciates all these advances and is proud to have contributed to them, but with the same conviction and consistency, it cannot deal with government options that refuse to continue the replacement and conquest of rights with a broader response to national problems, with government options that sacrifice the resolution of national problems to dogmatic criteria imposed by the European Union and sacrifice workers' rights to the interests of the great employer. [[Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto's laughs.]] There are no certain accounts when workers' wages do not reach the end of the month. There is no Worthy Work Agenda when you have to ask the employers for permission to submit proposals on labour legislation. In 2022, as in 2015, the influence of the PCP in this House will be a decisive factor for the paths to be taken in the future. Strengthening the PCP in this House will always be a decisive factor both to prevent the return of the parties from right to power, and to prevent the return of the absolute majority of bad memory. The Portuguese will know who they can count on. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u90	Mr President, you have five requests for clarification. How do you want to respond to these?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u91	Madam President, I will initially respond to the first three requests for clarification and then answer the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u92	For a request for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Filipe, we agree on a fundamental point: there is a link between the economic and social situation, what is to be done in the country, and the political situation, whether or not it is capable of responding to it. There is therefore a link between having a budget and not having and being able to concentrate now on the social and economic recovery of the country. Finally, there is a question in the political declaration of the CFP which is also ours: what is the meaning and rationality of chuming the State budget which improves public policies, does not take anything that was good there and worked and adds good things, in particular some that you cited?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u95	It may have seemed natural to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to think so, but we are not the only ones to think so. Last May, a distinguished Member and leader of the CFP wrote in public: "I have often heard statements by leaders, former leaders and BE Members justifying that they voted against the EO for 2021, with harsh criticisms of the EO. As ironic as it may seem, if they can make such a speech, they owe it to the responsible attitude of the CFP » — which had let that Budget pass. He also said: "If the CFP had done the same thing" — then there are several consequences — "the country was living with twelfths, the 300,000 workers in layoff were less than one third of the salary, the SNS was more at risk, the pensioners were without increases and it is known which government". This is what Mr.António Filipe said on his personal Facebook page. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u97	That is, a few months ago, the PCP was responsible for letting the Budget pass and the Left Block was irresponsible because it had not allowed the Budget to pass. And now what is it? It was not only the question of concrete measures, it was also the question of «you know which government», i.e. there was a question of governability on the issue which you raised or, finally, Mr. Professor Antonio Filipe, because he can always invoke that he is not the Member who writes on Facebook.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u98	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u99	We are not volunteers, we do not believe in spontaneous generation solutions, as liberals may believe. We do not believe that the social state is a helicopter and that it is enough to throw money when we are afflicted. The social state is the organization and structure of society, of the community, according to the common good and therefore we need political tools. Having the PCP done what, what political tools is the PCP willing to offer to the country so that we will not waste time working for social and economic recovery that is so urgent? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u100	For a request for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Filipe came here to talk about a political crisis and spoke as if the CFP had no responsibility for what is happening. But, Mr President, you have every responsibility for what is happening! [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese Communist Party, together with the Left Block, with Mr. Prime Minister, the Government and the Socialist Party are the face of this political crisis! Mr President, over six years you have supported a government that has increased the tax burden on families and businesses. More: the PSD has repeatedly warned — and in various ways — that it is necessary to lower the tax burden, support the economy, because only by betting on the economy can we have stable businesses and stable jobs. It was the PSD who drew attention and warned about the need for the stability of labour legislation and a set of family friendly measures. At that time, you were against all this! Therefore, Mr President, one cannot understand how you, for six years, support a government that has not been able to do and take the measures necessary to reach people at a time when people need the most, when we are emerging from a health crisis, with very serious economic and social repercussions, have turned their backs on people and create this political crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u102	You could have voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u103	I thought the honourable Member would take advantage of me to make a mistake and apologize to the Portuguese. Now you have the opportunity to explain how it was possible to be as irresponsible, how it was possible to turn your back on people, to support a government that did not help people, workers and families for six years, and now they are responsible for one more crisis besides social, a political crisis. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u104	For a request for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Filipe, after his political statement on the part of the NAP, we would like to address three very specific questions. First, does the PCP maintain its firm conviction that the country only needs a budget there for the month of April or May of 2022? Second question: does the CFP maintain the position that this budget should not have reached the specialty, so that, by virtue of dialogue, negotiation and pressure, if it could actually obtain a fundamental instrument for the country, which would bring the answers we need so much? Finally, Mr President, I would like to leave you a third question: does the country not consider that it deserves another sense of State on the part of the CFP? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u106	In response to these three requests for clarification, Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Porfirio Silva, Mr António Filipe and Professor António Filipe are one and the same person. As for that, there is no doubt. I did not understand whether the honourable Member was criticizing me for not voting against the State budget for 2021. He does not think that the CFP, having voted in favour of the State budget for 2021, in a pandemic framework completely different from that in which we are today...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u108	Is the pandemic over yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u109	Mr, he seems to have forgotten this aspect and the fact that in 2021 there were such important issues as the 300,000 workers who were in layoffs who were able to receive their 100% salary, contrary to what had happened in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u111	Mr Deputies, do you think there was an act of irresponsibility on the part of the CFP by enabling the State budget to 2021, how did it effectively? We do not regret this and it is because we recognize the difference between the State budget for 2021, the situation of the country in 2021, and what the country needs for 2022, and in the face of the intransigence of the Government to accept the proposals presented by the CFP to the Government for discussion - not now, not on the eve of the Budget, but since July, that the CFP, with the same sense of responsibility, took the position it took in this State budget for 2022. It was not the CFP that lacked the need for convergence, it was the government that failed the call and intentionally placed itself in the position to see the Budget rejected. [[PCP applause.]] In fact, Mr Prime Minister, in the way he closed the debate on the State budget, already making an election campaign speech, made it very clear what was coming: he was determined that the budget was not approved in order to be able to launch the current victimization operation. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, in her speech—is that I didn't really understand! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u112	But I explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u113	... the PSD thinks the CFP should have voted in favour of the State budget? Is that it? [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] The honourable Member comes in such a dramatic way to hold the CFP responsible for a situation of political crisis, which, in any case, is the responsibility of the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u114	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u115	... by taking its pre-announced decision that, if the budget was not approved, it would dissolve the Assembly of the Republic and convene elections. When the Government has not resigned, when the Assembly of the Republic is in full effectiveness of functions and there is neither a fall from the Government nor a problem of governance, it is therefore a decision that the President of the Republic takes on his sole responsibility. But what the PSD will tell us here is: "No, no, you should have approved the Budget! » If you are a Member of the European Parliament. Members think that the budget is so good, they would have a good remedy, which was to be approved by you. And by approving it, there would be no political crisis. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha asked me three questions which are easy to answer. I'll answer all of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u116	I ask you to be brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u117	I shall be brief, because the questions were also, Madam President. In relation to the question about the twelfths, it is not the first and second time that the country enters the following year in the twelfths. In fact, if there are early elections, it will even have to enter the twelfth century, and this is therefore inevitable by the decision of the President of the Republic. Why don't we allow the transition to specialty? Because the attitude of the government, before the debate in general, was completely different from what it had been in previous years and that makes all the difference. He asked if we have a sense of state. Yes, we do. We have shown that we have had a sense of state in this and other matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u118	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u119	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I think he has failed and has moved on to the main issue. The question that the whole country has seen and noticed is that the cement that binds the PCP, the Left Block and the PS failed. And it is not about Budget or more pensions, nor the sustainability factor, nor the labour legislation. Noise! In fact, it was enough to see that, in this debate, the great tension of the Socialist Party was with you and was with the Left Block. Therefore, it was no external and exogenous factor that determined the end of this majority and this solution, it was the distance between the PS and the PCP, and that is why you are responsible for the crisis now approaching. And, Mr President, you knew very well what Mr. President of the Republic had said, because he told the country that the budget will be dropped for the first time in democracy to determine early elections. The honourable Member has heard, all the benches have heard, and we all know what that meant. Mr. Deputies, well, he says: "We do not give in to blackmail! » Very good! But then you have to take the consequences. You can't come here saying that you have no idea what's going on, that you don't know why we're going to elections, that this is all a big misunderstanding and that we better not do anything. If your solution is that the government will present a new budget within 90 days, the government has shown that it would not, and the honourable Member knew that he would not. And the honourable Member also knew that, if Antonio Costa presents a new budget—as Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa knows—the PCP and the Block will return to lead him, because your solutions are not in the Socialist Budget. What you want is to delay the country, not three months, but four, five, six, seven, ten, until one day we have one government again. That is why, Mr President, the question is very simple.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u120	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u121	I shall conclude, Madam President. That is why the Portuguese want the CFP today to respond: if Parliament's composition remains in similar terms, will the CFP bring about a second management?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u122	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u123	I'm really going to finish, Madam President, I'm sorry. Secondly, is it not true that the PCP wants to go back to the streets, to the left frentism, why do you know that it gives you more votes than to be allied with the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u124	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Filipe, I will ask you a set of questions for the present and the future. It is not a greeting, because the one who has just spoken, Mr Ventura, that, yes, wants the country to go after 47 years, because neither with freedom nor with democracy knows how to live well, as you see, even in your own party and as the Constitutional Court says. I would like to ask you a number of very precise questions about what this budgetary procedure has been doing. The Left Block, a year ago, said the Budget presented by the Socialist Party was bad. We gave a set of reasons and what was most important was the state of the National Health Service. It was a matter of enormous political confrontation and the country saw, because reality demonstrated it, as the Left Block was right. Just look at what happened at the SNS. We have tens of doctors in situations of resignation of their functions, hospitals in chaotic state and we were still aware yesterday that the number of extraordinary hours in the SNS was beyond any dream and had beaten all the records. Therefore, in fact, the criticism that the Left Block made a year ago was certain: the PS was not, and is not, looking after the National Health Service. What we saw this year was a maintenance of the budgetary will. We watched Mr. Prime Minister walk throughout the country announcing millions and millions and millions and then presented to the country a continuity budget that was seriously ill with the same problems that came from behind. Now, what is incomprehensible is that, after promising millions to the country, after promising millions to employers' confederations, the government told the workers that there was no money for their rights, told the SNS that there was no money for the exclusive dedication of their professionals and, in the case of pensions, that there was no money to recover the dignity of those who have a misery pension every month because they are still suffering the cuts of the PSD and CDS. A government that promises millions to the country and then lacks in the specific cases of those who work is a government that does not actually create solutions and that is looking for problems. Therefore, the intransigence of those who, when the country needed a rice budget, innovation, brought only, and only, one more budget with the same problems of the past is that marks the definition and outcome of the current state.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u126	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u127	I shall conclude, Madam President, with a question. What I ask you, honourable Member, very directly, is whether it is understood that, because of the respect for those who work, because of the recovery of pensions or because of the guarantee of the future of the SNS, it makes sense to speak in political crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u128	In response to requests for clarification, Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u129	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, came here to talk about cement, but Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u130	I'm still defending!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u131	... and said that the democratic system would have to be overcome, it would have to be overcome, you know why—now, by the way, it's very busy...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u132	Did I get tied up? Oh, my God! On election day we'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u133	... to find out that it is normal in our democratic regime, that it is a proposal for a minority government to be rejected in the Assembly of the Republic and that there are institutional consequences that will take place according to these circumstances. We don't run away from responsibilities. We knew the threat from the President of the Republic that if the Budget were not approved it would convene elections. But we have found that, in consciousness and coherence, we could not approve this budget and assume all responsibilities. The honourable Member is, of course, not very convinced of the responsibilities of what he is taking on, because for a few days he defends something, with a grand and gongorical air, that it is necessary to overthrow the democratic system, but, in the face of the normal functioning of a democratic system and the convening of elections—even if we can disagree with them, we are not afraid of them— Mr. But as far as this is concerned, Mr President, we must also get used to the functioning of democracy. I know it's not something he likes, but democracy is an essential value in our country, we've always fought for it and we'll keep fighting for it. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, with the question he raised, the honourable Member went back to the question of 2021. We took full responsibility for what we did in 2021, in the middle of the pandemic, in a situation of great urgency and in a framework where the 2020 Supplementary Budget had not responded to what we thought was essential. from that we understand that, in that concrete situation - I repeat, in that concrete situation - the country should not have to face the pandemic, with all the difficulties that this would entail, with the Budget as it was in 2020 and as resulted from the amending budget. Therefore, we understand that, in view of the concrete situation that the country was experiencing, in view of the concrete possibility of responding to the problem of the 300,000 workers who were in layoff and were seeing their salaries cut in a third, in the face of the emergency situation in the National Health Service, in the face of the need to respond to the unemployed workers who had seen the end of the extension of their unemployment allowances, and in relation to a National Health Service that needed immediate support in those circumstances, we did what we felt we should do, in the name of the highest national interest and so that the Portuguese State did not support the fight against the epidemic we were dealing with. The situation in the country is different right now. The pandemic situation is better than the one it was, but the investment in the National Health Service is more necessary than ever, because the system is faced with the enormous pressure it has suffered and will certainly continue to suffer in the nearest times. Therefore, the salvation of the National Health Service is a matter for us, pressing and it is one of those issues that we actually understand that the proposal of the State Budget for 2022 did not give an answer. That is one of the reasons why we voted against. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u134	For a political declaration, Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They wanted the political circumstances that my first political statement as a member of the CDS is the last political declaration of the CDS in this legislature. I am here a month ago and I must say that this has been an intense month, full of challenges, where I witnessed a history of a state budget, but it was with great honour and pride that I joined the CDS Parliamentary Group, a group of fellow parliamentarians, full of integrity, full of history and deeply defender of the causes of the CDS, one of the founding parties of our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u137	last day 27 saw the lead of the State budget, and noted the country—that the management was over. The Government of António Costa has stopped relying on the support of the Left Block and the PCP and has since attended the country to a game of pass-backs. The budget has dropped because the left has been unable to understand the measures, the vision and the government's condescendence to its demands in the vision of Antonio Costa ; Already in the vision of the PCP and the Left Block, the Budget went down because the government is intolerant and did not consent to what they said to be elementary in order to be able to approve it. One thing, to the CDS, seems obvious, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State budget has dropped and management has ended because nothing new has to be presented to the country. Not now, not even after the elections. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this end of the legislature, the CDS still does not want to leave some points to be noted, in our view, essential. From now on, our surprise and indignation at Parliament's options at this stage, including the early schedule—by tomorrow—of the re-evaluation of the veto of the President of the Republic on euthanasia. At that time the CDS protested vehemently against this agenda on the eve of Parliament's dissolution and it cannot and can not stop doing here today in this last political statement. As the CDS has made it very clear, we are facing a civilizational issue, a complex and too serious issue, which is not summed up in a question of legality or competence in Parliament to deal with. We know from the veto of Mr President of the Republic, we know that there are many issues to be worked on, but this is a very sensitive matter, with huge underlying ethical issues, which deserves serious weighting, and the minimum requirement would be for all entities and society to be heard. However, there was no public debate, which is not proper in this area of complexity. Since 1975 the CDS has always been consistent in the defence of life and we understand that the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the PAN, the ENP and the Liberal Initiative are responsible for this speedy and undesirable form in democracy to resolve such a delicate issue that society as a whole is concerned. And I remember that this matter is not matured in Portuguese society. Moreover, the most relevant opinions, such as the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, the Medical Order or the Order of Nurses, are against. In this regard, I recall that the Order of Doctors was not even consulted during the drafting of the text that we are going to discuss here on Thursday, when, in the words of its staff, "This is important, because the evaluation of potential candidates for euthanasia, in the law that is being defined, needs doctors appointed by the Order". And more: Dr. Miguel Guimarães questions what, most likely, the majority of Portuguese should also be asking right now, and I quote, "At a time when we are in crisis, not only in political terms, but also in crisis in response to our patients who stayed behind during the pandemic, it is strange that this is the main concern of the Assembly of the Republic", recalling something that the CDS seems to be elementary good-sense, i.e. fracturing themes such as euthanasia (...) deserve a deep reflection and are discussed outside of a crisis situation". Approving euthanasia is a sad closure of this Legislation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I reiterate that the CDS is a humanist party, of a personalist matrix, for us there are no more or less worthy human lives and the greatest value of civilization must be the protection of life. We are thus faced with a civil debate, which now, in a hurry, contradicting opinions and without the society having access to the text that will be discussed here again, represents a true civilizational retrogression, the worst that could be expected of a society of democratic law. At times of pre-dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, the country is seeing Parliament giving priority to the speedy approval of euthanasia when many other matters would be resolved, such as the package against corruption and illicit enrichment or the repeal of the diploma on the release of prisoners on the pretext of the COVID-19 pandemic, in addition to many other substantive issues, such as the birth policy or fuel problems, just to list a few. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is facing a difficult and complex moment, which requires all serenity. It is already known that management killed management in the face of a State budget that did not solve issues of the environment itself, such as fuel, and that it kept putting us behind the countries of the East in the recovery of the crisis. The government, which has always said that it had stable and reliable partners and that it had a stable solution, now falls at the foot of the regattas, measured by their « stable partners », which did not hesitate to present a brave lead to it. But the CDS here is, as always, with responsibility and seriousness in the permanent defense of the values by which it has always been based and which are, as it could not fail to be, the greater values of democracy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u139	The Bureau shall record three entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u140	I am replying together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u141	Thank you very much. To request clarification, Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that your political statement has been an intervention which shows that you did not know that there was Parliament before you arrived and that there is something essential, called the legislative process, which did not take care to study before you took up your role as a Member. Mr. Deputy, you must have studied! First of all, there is one thing that is true: the CDS has always protested that euthanasia has always been scheduled! It was because there were more important economic problems to be discussed, either because there were more important political problems to be discussed, either because there was the pandemic, and therefore instrumentalized the lives of the people who were suffering at the time of the pandemic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u143	No, because you've always defended life!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u144	...to try not to get euthanasia scheduled. However, euthanasia has already been discussed. And the debate has been so fast, Mr President, that it has been ten years. It has been debated in the previous Parliament for 10 years and has been democratically leaded. And already in this previous legislation was heard the Order of Physicians, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, finally, all the entities that should be heard and all those who wanted to be heard. It was a very broad debate. I don't know if you've been paying attention. And in this Parliament, the legislative process has been sent. The entities that you have been there from the rostrum, saying that they should be heard, have already been heard. And then you know what happened? The diploma was democratically approved, with a majority greater than the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness. [[I wasn't here!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u145	I know that you weren't here and maybe you didn't watch TV. [[CDS-PP protests.]] However, the diploma was sent by Mr. President of the Republic to the Constitutional Court. And unlike the CDS — because democracy is like that — it happens! — the Constitutional Court understood that there is no duty to live, but it also understood that we should densify some concepts of the diploma. And what did we do? We have described some concepts of diploma. And what's in issue now?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u147	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is not at issue again to discuss the diploma, which is at stake to return the diploma to the President of the Republic — which will not, of course, be withdrawn from its powers when the House is in full operation — which may send it back to the Constitutional Court, veto or promulgate. So this is democracy working, Parliament working. So welcome to Parliament, it was a pleasure to live with you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u148	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Miguel Arrobas, I would very much like to congratulate you on your political statement, but I cannot honestly do so. And I cannot do it because the way you referred to some of the issues you wanted to focus on do not deserve our agreement at all. Firstly, Mr President, it is a very sensitive matter — good, of course — that it is a matter which requires all weighting — of course! And I believe, Mr President, that all the legislative process that has been going on for several years in this House had no other mark than that: that of prudence, the search for rigor, the involvement of all the best legal, clinical knowledge, etc. , had no other mark than, precisely, of extreme rigour and extreme caution. Mr President, I should like to say that you did not hear who was to be heard, that there was no political debate. Mr President, frankly, I do not have a very long parliamentary life, but I do not recall, frankly, even outside Parliament, that I do not remember any other debate that has occurred in Portuguese political life that has lasted longer, seeking greater rigour and greater involvement of all stakeholders, of all citizens, a little throughout the country. You must agree that the reality is precisely that. Secondly, the honourable Member tells us that the fracturing issues deserve a deep reflection. You're absolutely right. That is why inequalities deserve a deep reflection. That is the great fracturing theme of our society. That is why racism deserves a deep reflection. That is why gender-based violence deserves deep reflection. All this deserves a deep reflection.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u150	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u151	I will finish, Madam President. Unfortunately, in view of these issues, we have not had such a deep reflection as that which was followed precisely for the subject of drug-assisted death. Finally, Madam President, to conclude, my word is to agree with the honourable Member, not only on a matter of sympathy, but also on a matter of genuine agreement. He said: « There is a need for serenity ». Well, that's exactly what we need. There is a need for serenity and for the legislative process to be completed, as must be done by the Assembly of the Republic, with serenity, with rigour and with determination. [[Congrats from BE and PS MP Porfírio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u152	To request clarification, Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Miguel Arrobas, first of all, I would like to say that it was a pleasure to be with you in Parliament. I would also like to point out that you are bringing here today a matter of great delicacy, which is the question of euthanasia. This is a matter in which I am not going to enter, but I am going to focus on some aspects which you have brought here and which I also want to stress, because I think it is important to bring them here at this time. First of all, there is an incomprehensible issue here, because on 15 March the President of the Republic signed the Constitutional Court's decision to Parliament. On 16 March it arrived in this Parliament and on 17 March the message of the President of the Republic was read. And for these seven months nothing has been done — nothing has been done!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u154	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u155	If it's not true, then it's even more dangerous, because there was a small committee here...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u156	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u157	... that he has worked more or less in a hidden way and, obviously, this has nothing to do with democracy, especially in this matter of nature. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u158	And now, on 25th. the hour, the cash tap, we're going to vote on this matter. Secondly, Mr Purez referred to this subject by synonyms, but I am now speaking on the contrary, by antonyms, not by synonyms, by antonyms, which is very unwise. It's not prudent, it's very unwise! at this moment, this is not careful, the process is decoupled, because at the moment we are clearly experiencing a crisis, at the moment we are two days before hearing announcements by the President of the Republic on the possible dissolution of Parliament, to be discussing a matter of this nature, which is the essence of the human person, life and death, and here wanting to create a division, a fracture, is truly unwise.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u159	It's democratic!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u160	Third,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u161	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u162	I shall conclude, Madam President. Yes, Mr. Deputy, unwise, unwise! It's the so-called unwise democracy. Thirdly, I would also like to point out that there is a challenge here to Parliament's own credibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u163	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u164	... because if there is again approval of the decree on Friday 5th, Mr President of the Republic can veto this matter again and then we have to wait for the next legislature to eventually resume it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u165	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u166	So here is a huge recklessness, a huge decoupling, which could very well have been avoided. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u167	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Arrobas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Adam Silva for the issues he raised here, with which we could no longer agree. That is why I am grateful for the clarity with which I have explained it at this time when we believe that it is indeed worth this clarity. As for Mrs Isabel Moreira, I am grateful to be taught that Parliament has not started with me now. It would be fantastic, but I don't give that value. But also Mrs Deputies was not here at the beginning of democracy and, therefore, it is not clear that since the beginning of democracy we, CDS, have the same position and the same defence of life that we have today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u169	The honourable Member is here to talk about legislative processes and to teach law—as if I were not law-makers either, Madam Member—so I wanted to tell you that there is something that is learned in universities, which is law, but there is a lack of good sense. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u170	And that's what's missing, clearly, here today. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] He talked about the legislative process, and here I also reply to Mr José Manuel Pureza, whom I also begin by thanking the kind words at the end — thank you very much! — in saying that the legislative procedure does not run out in one phase, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. There are several phases and this is one more. What's in front of us, cooked with the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u171	Cooking? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u172	...to hide and in any office, that I at least don't know,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u173	Hey! What's that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u174	...is a different text from the one that was put to the public discussion. [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u175	It is a text other than the one that has been put on request for advice from the Order of Doctors, for example. As such, you must not exhaust the legislative process that you so much defend in this act, and the new discussion should be given, the new weighting, because otherwise the process is in the middle, Mrs Deputies, and as such I cannot agree. And it is a terrible mistake that is now, at the end of this Parliament, in a scenario of political crisis and in a hurry, that we will return and legislate on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u176	For a political statement, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u177	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u178	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u179	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u180	I should have asked for the floor before I gave the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u181	It's yours! It's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u182	It wasn't signaled, I'm sorry. Mrs Inês Sousa Real, don't you mind waiting, then, a moment? Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u183	Mr President, it has been said more than once by the honourable Member now that the text that will be re-appreciated and returned to Mr President has been cooked in secret. It is very important that we know how the legislative process is done and that it is clear to all and to all that, when there is a pronouncement for the unconstitutionality of a standard and the text is reformulated, no legislative procedure is opened, therefore, there is no committee...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u184	Member of the House, all members of the House know what the procedure is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u185	No, you don't. Madam President, a statement has been made... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u186	Mrs. Deputy, don't you dare... I'm asking the ladies and the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u187	Madam President, a statement has been made against the honour of Members and Members...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u188	Mrs. Isabel Moreira, please attend to what is being said by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u189	There is no working group figure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u190	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u191	...and, therefore, the text was made...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u192	Member of the...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u193	Do not interrupt the President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u194	I'm sorry, but I don't think you heard what I said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u195	I didn't hear, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u196	I asked the honourable Member to wait. I was addressing the whole House, and the honourable Member continued to speak as if nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u197	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u198	I'm asking the ladies and gentlemen. Members to create conditions for all of us to be able to listen, then telling the honourable Member to complete his call to the Bureau on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u199	I conclude, Madam President. contrary to what has been said, there was no hidden group, there is no procedural figure of a working group or committee. Therefore the text, like all texts that are reformulated after a legal veto, was reworded by the authors, with the participation of PSD Members and was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u200	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of the current situation of the country and the world, it was expected that our political class would make the same effort, the same mobilization, that could ensure a stability that the country needs so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u202	There's the sense of state of the NAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u203	Our society expects from all of us answers to the worrying social crisis that we have before us and that we give priority to the interests of society to the detriment of party interests, going beyond ideological differences. At this time it is essential to look at the great challenges that we face as society and act, act seriously, rigorously and with real commitment. And if today, in our country, as in a little way all over the world, so many people face all kinds of socio-economic difficulties with regard to the crisis of our lives, we cannot continue to ignore the 'elephant in the room': the climate crisis and the changes that arise there. at this time, in Glasgow, the COP26, 20. the United Nations climate change conference. A conference that is decisive for our future as humanity and where Portugal stands, despite the unencouraged words we have already heard from the Minister of the Environment and the incomprehensible absence of the Prime Minister, which do not leave much hope that this matter will be taken seriously in our country. It is not understood, in fact, that the Prime Minister is not available to participate in COP26, because the fight against climate change and decarbonization cannot continue to be mere chavos in political speeches, especially in a country where there is no courage to face the interests of those who continue to enrich at the expense of the destruction of our quality of life and the habitats of the planet. For the NAP we must not only be at COP26 as we must take with us the legitimate concerns of Portuguese society, given precisely that our country is one of the most European countries that will suffer, and is already suffering, the effects of the vulnerability caused by climate change. This is where we are as long as we are distracted by political intrigues and toys that are totally useless to present and future generations. In fact, we are going to be involved in a political and budgetary crisis in the coming months without having a structural debate on this issue. And more: for years the NAP has been bringing this issue to political debate and that we have faced the lack of interest, the lack of sensitivity and even contempt on the part of many in this House, which do not allow the necessary responses to mitigate and ensure the adaptation of the territory to the impacts of climate change, allowing some sectors to remain untouchable, as is the case for intensive and superintensive livestock, an activity recognized by the UN (United Nations), scientists and even economists as one of the greatest responsible for the most serious human, ecological and even animal welfare problems. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of inertia, and even negationism, in the face of the climate emergency has long not served the present and coming generations. As a young Chilean activist in COP26 said yesterday, the world is not bad because there was a pandemic, there are pandemics because the world is bad. That is precisely why we need to have an effective political commitment and effective political actions with regard to the climate crisis, which is not done with more of it or with mere proclamations. It is necessary and urgent to take care of the planet. It is urgent to ensure that the assumed normality by which all and all of us do not result in the perpetuation of disastrous political options, such as the construction of Montijo airport, luxury condominiums in the middle of the primary dune or commercial centres in wetlands of Community interest, which do no more than destroy unique habitats and ecosystems, or even in the perpetuation of tax bubbles to the polluting industry. We cannot continue to ignore that, piece by piece, we are selling the country for half a dozen potatoes. And what is the consequence of this? The aggravating contribution to the destruction of our natural heritage, to aggravate extreme climate phenomena, which will be felt in different areas of the territory, such as rising sea level, submerging extensive areas of our coastline or extreme meteorological phenomena that will destroy the entire landscape, which will call into question agriculture, housing and infrastructure. Just as we cannot ignore that these options do not generate wealth for the country, they serve only the pockets of some, and that, less so, they create lasting jobs, as could be created through green entrepreneurship. We are precisely less than seven years from the point of no return, on the edge of the cliff, without doing anything to go back. It is not at all that young people organize themselves in climate events and strikes, in Portugal and throughout the world. It is not by chance that they look at us with a feeling of helplessness and, more and more, with contempt and total disbelief in the political class. It is because you know that it is, and it must be, in our hands to make decisions that change the scenario that we have created and that we cannot continue to feed. What are the worth of studies, strategic plans, if, at the time of deciding and at the time of allowing it to be invested, everything is only from the bla-bla-bla-bla-bla of the custom, as our young people say. The bla-bla-bla that young people are already saturated and that takes them so often away from their own political life, the conversation of circumstance that no one has ever heard and that, above all, no one wants to hear. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already lost the opportunity to stop climate change and we are now losing the opportunity to stop its effects, to adapt the territory, to adopt plans that can protect populations and that prevent unprecedented consequences in the history of humanity, which we will have, we will have no illusions, incalculable costs. After the failure to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement, the countries — where Portugal is included — participating in the COP26 must meet this need and this meeting as an opportunity to acknowledge the failure and also establish the joint policies that make an urgent ecological transition effective, as is the case with the common agricultural policy, which so far does not go hand in hand with the European Ecological Pact. And Portugal should be on the front line of this fight. When we are confronted with the increase, for example, of 1, 6 oC of temperature increase in Beja, twice what is expected for Madrid, we cannot continue to whistle to the side, or when we know that we will have extreme dryness or even the average annual precipitation to rise, neither can we continue to whistle to the side. Portugal has to walk towards mitigating and minimizing the impacts of climate change and this is done only with disruptive policies, not with more than the same; it only leaves aside old beliefs, prejudices and an anthropocentric vision, totally overcome,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u204	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u205	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. As I said, this is only done by leaving aside an anthropocentric vision, totally surpassed and which brings us to this scenario of decline of biodiversity, water scarcity and natural resources or increase of average temperature. The NAP believes that it is still possible to work in a future where the natural balance of the planet is possible. We can do that. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u206	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the registration of four Members. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u207	Two to two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u208	You have the floor, therefore, to make the first request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u209	Madam President, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, I listened very carefully and, indeed, the world expects world policymakers to take concrete and immediate action with a view to reducing emissions, at least in accordance with the terms agreed in Paris. But serious measures, in order not to continue delaying decisions, because what we have seen is that, despite the commitments and promises made by countries at other conferences such as this one that is taking place, the result is catastrophic. The climate goals announced by the parties place the planet in a truly scary scenario, i.e. an increase of the global temperature of 2, 7o C by the end of this century, therefore far away from these Paris commitments. This is also the result of the latest UN report on expected progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But this report also indicates that in order to meet the Paris targets, it is necessary to reduce emissions by half by 2030. Now, we know that if governments do not raise their ambitions about emissions, they will not decrease by 2030. In fact, what we see is that carbon neutrality for 2050 is being announced with a pump and circumstances, but concrete measures for this effect are referring to the future, perhaps to 2049 or when nothing is to be done. This is why we continue with the resistance of the Government — as we have seen during our discussions with the Government for the State Budget for 2022 — to move forward, for example, with the freeness of public transport or with the need to invest in models of agricultural organization that can favour more sustainable productive practices, as well as in the equalization of consumption, in order to ensure more social, economic and climate justice for our country and for the world. Therefore, Mrs Greens, it is absolutely imperative that COP26 should not be reduced to empty advertisements and promises, but also that it rejects the false solutions, as is, in our view, the instrument of carbon markets. What I am asking you is that evaluation makes the NAP of this instrument, which eventually turns the fight against climate change into a commodity, a business opportunity, which is the carbon market. In the vision of the NAP, is the carbon market part of the solution or is it part of the problem? [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u210	For a request for clarification, Mr João Nicolau of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, it is clear to everyone today that climate change is having a strong impact on the planet and on humanity. Today, in fact, we already have concrete examples of the severity of the consequences of climate change, and it is also evident today that human activity has made a strong contribution to the worsening and acceleration of climate change. There are many questions that separate us in this House, from ideology to the concept of society, but there is a theme that generates a large majority and it is certainly the need to act in the face of the worsening climate situation. Action to combat the worsening situation, but no less important, act in mitigating the impacts of climate change. The PS has defended, but above all, it has acted in climate policy, mitigation, energy transition, among others, ensuring, above all, that it is a fair transition. in this Parliament, in this legislature, the PS presented a draft climate-based law and in this context we have all worked together. We had hours and hours of meetings, we received contributions from society and all interested parties. This work cannot, in any way, be in vain. For the sake of climate, for the good of the planet, for the good of humanity, it cannot be in vain work. It is in our hands that we conclude the basic law of climate. It is an ambitious law, but above all, it is a fundamental tool for combating climate change and for all the transformation that this fight will require. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we are in fact facing a climate crisis. For the Socialist Party, we will not be just another voice to join the chorus to point to the problem, we will, yes, be part of the solution. We want this House to continue to contribute to Portugal as an example of climate policy. Today we are witnessing a role of accusations of incompatibilities in terms of strategies to combat climate change from your bench and others. The ENP, including, has just noticed these incompatibilities. However, the planet deserves much more than rhetoric, than a parade of differences. The climate needs consensus and action, so I ask you whether your parliamentary group is available to act with us in a better climate policy. Is it therefore available for the basic laws of climate to be adopted? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u212	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u213	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions that have been raised. With regard to the carbon market, for the NAP what may be an apparent solution should not be a problem in the present or future. That is why there are externalities that are not currently being considered from a financial point of view, as is the case with ecosystem services, which must be much more valued than the purchase of carbon emissions so that some can pay to pollute, thus creating more inequalities and asymmetries, to the global point of view. What the studies tell us today, indeed, is that those who are most pollutant are not the ones who will be most affected by climate change and its consequences. in this sense, Mr President, the NAP could no longer agree that we need to be more ambitious and more demanding in solutions so that Portugal can effectively reduce carbon emissions. This is due to an urgent commitment on rail, public transport, combating energy poverty, among many other measures which the NAP, including, has claimed for this State budget, whose negotiation with the Government was already underway, and unfortunately it has been on its way because this House has, in some way, resigned itself to making the State budget in the budget of the Assembly of the Republic in the field of expertise. Indeed, we need to change the economic paradigm in which we live, particularly from the point of view of financial profit, making more competitive ways of production more sustainable at the level of forest and agriculture itself, which is not happening today. This also goes by learning from past mistakes, whether in terms of the Paris Agreement, whether in the strategic plan of the new CAP ( common agricultural policy ), which cannot be more than that and which has to bet on organic agriculture and sustainable production. With regard to the question put by Mr João Miguel Nicolau, there is indeed a need to act in the fight against climate change, but this is done only in joint effort. It is of no use that the political forces of this House are on their backs if they do not know how to give a voice for a set of demands. Mr President, there are two absolutely important and imperative issues for the NAP in terms of climate-based law: on the one hand, to recognize the crime of ecocidation and to deepen, within the framework of that law, this global claim, not only by young people and future generations, but also by specialists themselves; on the other hand, recognition of the stable climate as a heritage of humanity is needed. I therefore pay the question: is the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group available to accompany the NAP in these demands so that a joint text will leave the committee that recognises these two imperatives in the fight against climate change? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u214	For a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the PAN and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real on the matter she has brought here. Madam Member, I think we must first try to understand why the PS is so sad. I heard the Socialist Party Member and he seems sad. Probably because the PS couldn't, with the Budget, make no marriage, having brought two denials to the left... [[PSD laughter.]] It had a sense of more or less, almost, of the NAP, but it couldn't get married. There was a year in which he did not marry the Left Block, but in which the Left Block was invited to the bachelor's farewell; he made the whole party, etc. But he didn't get married! [[PSD laughter.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we cannot do anything about this budget and this PS government because in practice we forget a part of the country and some of the policies that are relevant. This is more than obvious! It's that feeling that they're managing power and they're not managing the country. In practice, this means that, in terms of environmental policies, they do less than little, they do not do at least what is necessary. They were very concerned about making the Budget viable, but they did not worry about making the policies that are fundamental to the country in this area. This, in fact, saddens us, but more than that, it harms the country. I believe that the honourable Member will agree with me that, looking at fiscal policy in the environmental area, we have found that the only tax that will eventually be working is that, when I go to the supermarket, I charge 5 or 10 cents for a bag. That's actually disincentived people... [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] What is more, it's a way of filling the government's pockets and not returning where it has to be returned... it's a way of trying to negotiate a budget that doesn't work. And, in practical terms, as they have led a denial, is the denial of what is the country's relief. Mrs PAN, do you not think that this budget actually leaves a part of the country outside, leaves a part of what is essential from outside and that, in practice, it was down at the start, because you never wanted it to live? This is a budget that has always been dead. There was a zombie, but he barely moved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u216	For a request for clarification, Mr. Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u217	Madam President, I would just like to comment on Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, who has a great deal of trouble with the PS. What Mr said about green taxation is unfortunately not a novelty of the Socialist Party Government. It was created by the government of the troika, PSD / CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u218	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u219	...to search for more rates to the population, with the environmental pretext. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I believe that the NAP also agrees with green taxation, but I wanted to start with another question. In the last debate with the Government, Mrs Deputy, representing the NAP, asked the Minister of the Environment to remain with even more areas of governance and basically stated that the NAP, in environmental policy, is from the team of Matos Fernandes. We understand that there is a need for disruptive policies rather than policies that have been carried out by this government. I wanted to ask you two concrete questions. On the carbon market, the honourable Member has escaped a little bit on the issue, but she would like to know whether or not she agrees with the application of Article 6. the, now under discussion at COP26, in Glasgow, which configures the new carbon market that has as a consequence more speculation, higher prices to consumers, the deregulation of the economy and the financing of the climate response. On one of the flagship proposals of the NAP for the climate area, which are green visas, I would also like to ask you a question. This is because everything is for sale, not only carbon is sold, but citizenship rights, human rights are also transactionable in the green market.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u220	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u221	I would therefore like to ask you whether the NAP wants to finally pronounce itself against green visas so that no one has more citizenship rights for having more or less money. This is an obvious requirement, not only for the environment, but above all for human rights. It is not the market that will solve the problem, it is not the cost of living of people who will solve the problem, it is even regulation, public investment and public policies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u222	To respond to these two requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for your questions. I would begin precisely by replying to Mr Nuno Carvalho, telling him, of course, that the NAP is already well married and committed to its causes, so boyfriends aside, we know what we have seen and who we want to be in what the future of the country may be. Mr President, in view of the lack of commitment your bank has made to voting, often against proposals which the NAP has brought here, in particular the rate of carbon on livestock, one of the internationally recognised industries as the most polluting and more greenhouse gases produced globally, but also at the level of the discussion we are having, within the Committee on the Environment, of the basic climate law, I cannot help but wonder whether this is what the PSD is going to follow us. Is the PSD available for the commitment to the causes of the environment and for the feasibility of proposals in committee to effectively recognize the stable climate as a heritage of humanity, but also for the recognition of the crime of ecocidalism, as I have just mentioned? With regard to the issue of green taxation, the NAP is well aware of whom you want to give your hand, Mr President. We prefer to tax polluting activities instead of taxing families. I know that this is not what happened in the times of the troika, of which neither my generation nor the generation that preceded me misses. Mr President, as part of the generations to come, you will have every interest in where this House so decides, because it will be the future generations that will suffer most from the impacts of climate change. Therefore, the time to decide and act is here and now. We hope that the PSD will accompany us and that it will be available for this commitment, not for cassories, not for political interests or demands, but for a commitment to the environment and the intergenerational responsibility that we all have in this House of Democracy. Mr. Nelson Peralta, on the issue you have raised, perhaps you have not been paying attention, because you have already asked us this question about green visas in the past. The NAP has already made it clear that it will not resume in this House of the Republic the proposal for green visas, precisely because when we are wrong we know how to recognise this mistake and assume it, which does not always happen here. [[PAN's applause.]] We will not present this proposal again, precisely because it creates injustice and makes no sense that, depending on citizenship, a visa can be awarded. We have failed, acknowledged and followed forward, Mr President, so it is not worth repeating this question until exhaustion, because we have much more interesting questions to discuss and much more serious problems to solve, for which you should also have been part of the solution. On the question of taxation and the transfer of money or not to the Minister of the Environment, one thing is certain: we are not on the side of the Minister of Agriculture! And that is quite different from the irony of passing the folder to the Minister of the Environment, because this Minister of Agriculture has been next to the interests of the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ) and the polluting activities. The NAP has already made it clear that this policy does not serve the country. We cannot continue to have a protection of agriculture that disregards environmental issues... [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's protests.]] You have already heard us make this criticism here several times. But if there is to be a restructuring of the government's point of view or of the folders that must be taken by each of the Members. Ministers, it is clear that there has to be this issue. With regard to Article 6. the, what the NAP defends is the urgency of investments structurally so that they can help reduce emissions and not create more inequalities. That's why we're going to hit. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u224	For a political declaration, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens' has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In these days, tens, if not hundreds, of heads of state and government, hundreds of other rulers and thousands of stakeholders, coming from all corners of the planet, are concentrated in Glasgow for 26. the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In each of these COPs — and it will not be different in this — while the rulers will announce measures and undertake solemn promises and commitments, on the streets tens or hundreds of thousands will say that they are tired of good words, of extraordinaryly well-produced events, of promises thrown into the wind. Unfortunately, time has given reason to the seconds. The balance of the summits is made and we can conclude that life has given reason to activists who mobilize on the streets to shout loudly that they do not believe in the debates and conclusions taken in the official debates. That is why, once again, we look at this COP with mistrust. Distrust, by the frameworks in which it is made. Climate change is there with all strength. Extreme phenomena, ranging from flood fill to extraordinary droughts, fires or destructive hurricanes, are increasingly rare realities. People are increasingly feeling their impacts and consequences. Fear, restlessness, doubt and hopelessness are accumulated, promoted by the most catastrophic scenarios that arise every day. Distrust, because instead of joining in the debate and listening to all sides, the richest, the most powerful in the world and, we must say, the most polluting, have joined together, accomplices, with the highest officials of the United Nations to, far from the main victims, make more announcements and more promises. Distrust, because voices are raised seeking to impose agendas for debate that will not only not compete to solve the many problems we have in the environment and in the climate as will lead to problems and stereo divisions. The Greens reject the idea of contradiction between generations. It would not be fair to indiscriminately shoulder responsibilities to a generation who learned to read for an ardosis or went barefoot, those who began to work still children. We reject individual accountability and, consequently, the lines of response that settle everything in changing behaviors, forgetting the public policies and the current way of production, which is highly aggressive to the environment. Just as we refuse the idea that those who are the forgotten ones of progress, in developing countries, now see limited possibilities for progress so that others can continue their course of consumption and pollution. Distrust, yet, because the example we have in the country, if extended to all other countries, does not hope for anything good. As we said last week, we can fill our mouths by talking about climate change, and it is likely that the government will present itself in Glasgow as last year, as at the last summit, saying the country as an example in this matter, but the acts must correspond to the words. The ways of mitigating and adapting to climate change are undergoing profound changes in policy options, from the point of view of transport and mobility. And what does the government do? It is a step towards the development of railways and the essential objective of linking all capitals to the national rail network. He drags his feet on a path that we started and which is decisive, that of priority to public transport, and refuses to be free in the first phase up to the age of 18. The fight they have already called 'our lives' goes through decisions that are compatible with this objective. But the government insists on the obsession of building an airport structure in an area of high environmental sensitivity such as the Tejo estuary and tries to ignore the democratic and binding decisions of the authorities, once again with the complicity of the PSD, as well as to break up areas of great biodiversity and of importance to the populations to feed the 'negotiate' of lithium extraction. in one and another situation, what weighs is the wrong option that the path may be to replace individual transport on cars moved to fossil fuels by individual transport moving to the so-called 'green' energies, when the great option has to be to exchange individual transport by collective transport. Exactly how it won't be way to hit acres of carbon sink trees to replace with photovoltaics. The sad example of the Torrebela Heritage, where not only trees were cut down as were the killing of hundreds of large animals, in a wild operation to satisfy the egos of a customer, besides, has made a good contribution to realize how perverse the polluter-payer principle can be. Who can pay, and don't worry if you have to pay much or little. In Torrebela, they paid thousands of euros to kill hundreds of deer; on another scale, they will pay millions of euros to continue to pollute. Another path and other determination are necessary, until the Paris Agreement is not being fulfilled because of the lack of will of governments. Portugal is equipped with a set of instruments that govern political decisions related to climate issues and impose a cross-section in various government sectors and in society. The performance of public authorities is decisive, as well as that of economic actors and citizens in general. in this sense, the approval of a law of climate will represent another instrument in this direction. With regard to food consumption, it is necessary to bet on the most sustainable and not be so dependent on intensive production livestock and to encourage local production for local consumption needs in order to reduce the ecological footprint. Forest preservation is also an important means of carbon retention. More forest means greater capacity to capture CO2. Portugal also needs to develop renewable and sustainable energy sources, as well as to bet on energy efficiency. But above all, it needs to create a system of collective transport that responds to the needs of the people throughout the territory and to continue the path of incentive for soft and active mobility. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u226	The Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u227	I shall answer together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u228	In order to make the first request for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Silva, I should like to begin by welcoming the various subjects which I have brought up in this political statement and I would like to take advantage of them to ask you two very specific questions. When the NAP brought to this House a recommendation for the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eco-cidalism is recognized by the International Criminal Court as the fifth crime against humanity—we also wanted Portugal to be able to stand alongside countries such as Sweden, France, among others, with a view to bringing other countries to this cause of good commonness—the ENP abstained. Therefore, I should like to ask you from now on whether in the proposal submitted by the NAP in the context of the discussion of the basic laws of the climate, precisely to establish the ecocidal situation, the ENP will follow this proposal of the NAP. And because we are actually talking about proposals, and even in the context of the discussion that we are having about the basic law of climate, the NAP has a proposal for the recognition of the stable climate as a heritage of humanity. Will the ENP follow this NAP proposal? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u230	To make a request for clarification, Mr. Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u231	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Silva, as you said about transport, I would like to ask you a question about something very useful that I have seen today and that the market offers us. On social networks, and also on the outdoors of cities, there is an ad to a 4x4 vehicle "to be used in the city" — that is what the ad says. This says a lot about what the market offers as a solution. This isn't a joke or a detail. In the last decade, what made the most emissions increase was energy production—it's easy to understand. The second element that made the most emissions increase was the exchange of traditional cars by the so-called SUV, urban jeep, or as we want to call them, because they are heavier, consume more and emit more. When we are told that the solution is to trade diesel cars and gasoline by electric cars, the consequence is to keep jams, but what has happened to the free market is the opposite, it is to trade a lighter car by a heavier car, which now, from an urban point of view, has a higher risk of accidents, and more serious accidents. Therefore, what I would like to ask you is whether you agree with the Left Block proposals that what we need most is not individual and market responses, but public policies that alter the design of cities, make rail links between all district capitals, make transport links to all areas — cities and villages — that public transport is free of charge, and that this is a great response and not an individualised response to motorized transport. But we also wanted to realize if it makes any sense to say that it is people's fault, because what we have is a great economy that, in order to have profit, exploits resources to the infinite, puts them on the market and then people, not having, obviously, another choice to move, have to access fossil fuels, because unfortunately there is no alternative. We therefore believe that what we need is public transport policies and the progressive freeness of public transport. And I wanted to know if the ENP agrees with this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u232	In order to make a request for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u233	Madam President, I begin by greeting The Greens and Mrs Mariana Silva for also putting us before the reflection on environmental policies and the path that must be followed. The truth is that, as we have already had the opportunity to say, there are enormous contradictions between what is stated or what is being promised and between concrete policies and their implementation. An example of flagrant incompatibility at the level of the Ministry of the Environment in office is, for example, to make carbonic neutrality, its routes, its objectives, the great mote of the ministry's action, but then, through its inaction and lack of means, contribute to the destruction of those who are natural sinks, namely our protected areas and the various ecosystems. And also because it refuses to change the environmental impact assessment law and, therefore, it will allow the destruction of chain ecosystems. In fact, in the last proposal for a State budget submitted by the Government, despite the fact that there was a reduction in expenditure on personnel and nature conservation, there was an increase in funding for the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u234	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u235	This proves, therefore, that there is a contradiction between the words and the action of this government with regard to environmental issues. Another issue we wanted to address has to do with the use of environmental issues and a cross-cutting and urgent concern for all those who are attentive to what is going on around them to whiten out situations that are the responsibility of those who have power in our world, the great economic groups. And I give as an example the strategy of appealing to deindustrialization and zero growth to, in a way, petrify inequalities between classes and between nations, such as those in our world. Another concern that we also wanted to denounce is the use of terms such as 'ecocidio',...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u236	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u237	... to whiteen wars that are, yes, the cause of people's problems, people who often run away, but who are not environmental refugees, are war refugees, particularly the Syrian people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u238	Also to make a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Nuno Fazenda ( PS ). — Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has been leading climate action. This is recognised by the European Commission and by several international organisations and is therefore presented at COP26 as a country that has led to climate action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u239	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Antonio Costa is not going! Mr. Nuno Fazenda ( PS ). — Portugal has been an example in this regard and is recognised by the institutions. It was in fact the first country to present a roadmap for carbon neutrality by 2050. It has defined strategies, has been implementing actions, and with good results: in recent years, we have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 26 %. [[All right!]] Mr. Nuno Fazenda ( PS ). — Portugal is today the exemplary countries at the level of renewable energy. Sixty percent of electricity production originates in renewable energy, and this has implications for the lives of Portuguese people, because in fact in Portugal the costs of electricity are below the average of the European Union, are below those of Spain,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u240	It's not the people who are guilty! Mr. Nuno Fazenda ( PS ). —... and, in a crisis, in a storm of energy crisis, what the Energy Services Regulatory Entity ( ERSE ), the regulator, came to tell us that we are not going to have an increase in electricity costs next year. On the contrary, there may even be a reduction in electricity costs. That is why the European Commission also says that Portugal is the country in a better position to meet the climate goals. Portugal also presents itself in this COP26 as the country which approved the European Climate Law during its Presidency of the European Union. This is how Portugal presents itself, not only in COP26 as in other international forums. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I stress the ambition we had in this State budget and in this PRR, with investments in the decarbonisation of very significant transports, because they are, in fact, responsible for 25 % of emissions; in the railway, with ongoing work; in the metro and in buses with good environmental performance. All of these are investments that were planned. Investments in renewable energy, industrial decarbonisation, with investments of more than EUR 700 million for businesses, were also planned to make them more competitive and environmentally sustainable. Also in energy efficiency, which is in progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u241	It's spectacular! Open... Mr. Nuno Fazenda ( PS ). — What did the PCP, the Left Block and the ENP do? They blew everything that was advances in the climate area! It is that on Mondays they defend climate action and on Tuesdays they lead budgets that allow you to move forward in climate action! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] That's what you did: they dropped the Budget, against the country's progress, including against climate action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u242	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u243	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, what I ask you and what the Portuguese ask is the following: in relation to a Budget which has made so many advances in so many areas, including climate action,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u244	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u245	...how did the ENP not even show willingness to discuss in the field of specialty? How did he not even express a willingness to deepen so that we could have a better budget in this area too? No, Left Block, PCP and ENP were left out of the solution, demonstrating total intransigence, irrationality and irresponsibility to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u246	Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u247	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Silva, ends here a trio of left-wing interventions with harsh criticism of the government which, in fact, have placed the PS a little like an onion in a fruit salad. He doesn't know where to turn anymore, he's really very disoriented. At 100 COP days, we were 1, 2 oC of 1, 5 oC of heating that we can't have. At the opening, it was heard that it was our last and best hope, but the national contributions, as already mentioned, disappoint, particularly in countries such as India or China, and do not wish much. They hope, yes, that flooded cities can only be bad weather; heat waves, which kill thousands, can only be summer; and that the difference between 1, 5 oC and 2 oC that we can now reach is 150 million deaths, i.e. 25 burnt offerings. So there's no new normal, because normal is over. Still, the left always tries to make this debate a choice between the end of capitalism and the end of the world and gives even the desire to ask: why are they choosing? What do they choose for? In fact, it gives you the will to ask what you've chosen. In six years of State budget approval, they now criticize the government and say « the government does not provide, the government is bad, the government does not do ». But—and this is the big issue—in six years, what was the measure, the fundamental reform that the Left Block, the CFP and the ENP required the government to make the State budget viable? [[PCP protests.]] Now they seem to forget about the six years they have been enduring a government that has actually left much to do. Look, carbon tax, green tax, comes from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u248	Exactly, it comes from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u249	The incorporation of renewables has been stagnant for many years, Mr. Mr Hugo Pires and Mr Nuno Fazenda, as long as the PSD has left the government. So what about the waste? What about waste management in Portugal, which is the worst, with several warnings from the European Commission? So we also lost time in Portugal and what the left should do was explain why. Why, for six years, have they been wasting time in Portugal? That is the answer they must give. They always debate this with ideology and I want to tell you that climate change affects both a social-democrat and a communist, a blogger or a socialist. [[PSD applause.]] So you're always doing this debate with ideology, it's no use at all. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u250	In reply, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u251	Madam President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies Bebiana Cunha, Nelson Peralta, Ana Rivera, Nuno Fazenda and Hugo Martins de Carvalho. Speaking in ecocide, let's do an easy exercise: in the devastation of the Amazon who gets harmed? The tribes or the big companies that go in there to defuse it? Let's think about this. And our abstention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, went to think, to reflect on whether it would be worth it or not. As for the other project, we are looking at whether we will also present an initiative and, therefore, I cannot say what our position is. On the issue that Mr Nelson Peralta has raised, the Greens are already defending free transport for people up to 18 years old. This is the position of DOS Greens. About the defense of the railroad, we've been doing it for years. It is very late in the evolution of the railway in Portugal and we regret that, by the way, with this famous political crisis that only the PS sees—and the PSD too, because there are days when the PSD also sees it! — these promises of the PRR are not... The PRR is there, is to spend and to make the railway viable in Portugal. Let us hope so, Mr President. In response to Mrs Alma Rivera, I mean that investment in the environmental area is little. We have a Ministry of Environment that does not even worry about human and material resources to defend the conservation and protection of nature and therefore all the declarations of love that we hear fall to the ground, because there is no such investment. We have our natural parks without nature's vigilantes. As for guards, on Monday, the PS says that there is no such thing as because nature watchers do this service, but on Tuesday, the PS tells the NAP that, after all, the career guard will already exist. So I don't know exactly what the PS position is. [[PEV and PCP applause.]] Continuing in this love of nature, in these carbonic routes and in this intention that the PS brings and that the Government does action in the country, I ask: Mr Nuno Fazenda, how is it that the PS, after this love of nature, the environment and the planet, dares refuse a Green proposal for free public transport up to the age of 18? [[PEV and PCP applause.]] The PS stands next to the young people when they go to the street, says they are right, but then says they have no right to free transportation, which was to get used to it and see an option. That's right, because that's what happened! Finally, Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho, my answer is easy: in six years we have achieved the greatest environmental measure of all time, the PART, against which the PSD voted. The PART pulled thousands of cars out of the streets. It was not the fear that settled in people and the lack of investment in public transport, people would continue to use them, and that would take thousands of cars out of the street. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u252	For a political statement, Mr Miguel Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us not lose ourselves in discussions only about the past or about the past few weeks. Let us look forward to the political debate in our vision for the future of the country. In addition to the divisions on the internal future in the short term, we have heard in recent weeks the right to complain that the Socialist Party does not have a vision of the future for our economy. It is therefore important that we know how to go beyond the false narratives of the opposition to speak of facts. Visions for the future of the country, I fear them all, but they are different, very different, and still good! In democracy, it is important to take the differences and to say that our vision is largely focused on people, because it is in them our largest capital, our ideas, our innovation, as better jobs drivers, more competitive companies, more exports and consequently economic growth. Six years have passed and we have gone a long way to get here, a path with given evidence, with the first years of convergence in this century: 2017, 2018, 2019, 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A path with the recovery of available income—yes, available, already after taxes! — which has grown more than gross domestic product and thus results in lower tax rates today but which therefore weigh more on GDP (gross domestic product). A path with fewer than 500 000 people in poverty, with school dropouts below the European target and with more and more companies innovating. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And now, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the COVID has imposed on us the worst economic breakdown there is, we are recovering at a good rate — Europe's sixth fastest recovery! — and without cutting the income of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not a conjuncural growth. It is not by definition, because we have gone from growing less than the European Union to growing more than the European Union, but it is not, above all, in its causes, in innovation, in exports and, as much as it costs some, in more and better jobs. this week, we return to Lisbon at the largest technological summit in the world, the Web Summit, which, in good time, the government has been able to set and host for 10 years in Portugal. More than visiting Portugal, the government managed to make technology and entrepreneurship look and develop here. It is not only the 5000 incubated startups, thousands of them supported with tax incentives, financial incentives — 300 million in co-investment with privates — but also the statement of five companies evaluated at more than $1 billion, five 'unicorns' of national origin, which started with public investment. There was no need for 'unicorn' factories or, at least, for the presidents of the Chamber of Innovation, a country was required to bet on the innovation, science and qualification of Portuguese, to unite science and the business world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what the government has done over these six years. Today, we have 35 collaborative laboratories with multi-annual funding, with 562 people working on them and building this business innovation bridge. It is also because this bridge is built that on the PRR mobilising agendas we receive applications of EUR 14 billion investment. In Portugal, not only do we already have major technology competence centers such as Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Siemens, Ericsson, as well as the development of software and components of new products from large industrial companies in the world, such as Bosch or Volkswagen. And within our country, from Bragança to Beja, there are hundreds of doctors to investigate, in partnership with companies, the dynamics and needs of our territory. But if the specific cases do not convince us, let's see the results. It is that, after we retreated into R & D investment, this same expenditure had an increase of 14 % in public expenditure and 57 % in private spending, raising Portugal in all innovation rankings. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State's support for innovation, science, research and education enabled our human capital to stop being Bangladesh in Europe, as some have always ambitioned, and become seen as an innovative, resilient, attractive and with immense potential to unlock. This resilience is well seen in the workplace. While in OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), at the end of 2022, the employment rate will still be below pre-pandamia levels, with a loss of 22 million jobs in Portugal, the number of people employed in June is already higher than 100 000 people registered before the pandemic. This is the difference that makes a Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if there is still a long way to go, from fighting young unemployment to improving the quality of employment, today we have the opportunity to complete the important tasks to dignify work, as we have concluded the regulation of telework still in this legislature. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this has been possible with proof that it has certainly been very irritating to some in this Chamber, that it has been possible to do so with certain accounts. Although some threatened with sanctions or said it was arithmetically impossible, it was even increasing pensions and turning the page of austerity that we were able to move from deficit to surplus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at this time, when we have a COP26 to decide the future of the world, we know this very clearly: while other countries discard the responsibilities of politicians in Portugal, we assume them and we build public policies that make the difference, from investment in public transport to renewable electricity, and it is tomorrow that Parliament will approve, in the specialty, the basic law of climate with a proposal from the PS Parliamentary Group to try to anticipate by 2045 the goal of carbon neutrality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u254	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u255	Mr President, I conclude by saying that over the past six years we have not lived above our possibilities, we are living in search of our potential. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is what separates us from the right: the deep conviction that public investment and private initiative can and should be allied, not only to export more volume, but also, more quality, innovating more, with more and better jobs, with better wages; the assurance that we share with each of the entrepreneurs on the Web Summit that we do nothing of our own; the evidence that it is possible to reach new horizons for the country. next time you question our vision of the future, that's what we're talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u256	The Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mr? [[Pause.]] Mr Matos informed the Bureau that he would first respond to two requests for clarification and then to the remaining three. To make the first request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Miguel Matos, when I realized the theme of the PS political statement I reminded myself of a joke that was being told, which was that Fidel Castro could also teach lessons on how to make short speeches. You come here to talk about growth and innovation, two things that clearly the PS is not famous to be able to do, trying to pass on the idea that there has been immense growth with the PS. Let me tell you the following: Mr. Member said that we were the sixth economy to recover faster, but forget to say that, a few weeks ago, the World Economic Outlook, of the IMF (International Monetary Fund), says that at the end of 2022, Portugal will be the third country that will be closer to the economic level it had in 2019. All the other 24 countries that are above us in this table are better. I already know that you are going to say — because this is the PS cartridge — that is the most tourist economies that have suffered most from this pandemic. For let me tell you that above us are economies such as Croatia, Greece, Cyprus, Austria, Slovenia, Malta, all economies which have a share of tourism in GDP similar to ours. I also know that you will tell me that the PS was the only party that managed to be in government as we converged with the European Union in 2017, 2018, 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u258	Don't be envious!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u259	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u260	For I must tell you that it was not Portugal that brought together, it was the three largest European economies that at the same time diverged.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u261	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u262	In all of them, it was the only quadriennial in which they had growths below average since there was registration. That is the truth of the facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u263	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group now has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u264	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Matos, referred to economic growth issues and, in fact, we cannot separate the need for economic growth from the urgent need that we have to emerge from a model based on low wages and low technological incorporation and move on to a model in which sectors with greater technological integration are encouraged. It is also important for this to increase wages as a way to boost investments in these sectors with greater technological integration. But what is the signal that the government is giving when it does not take a step towards approximation, as it has seen in recent weeks, on a matter as important as the national minimum wage? The Government has not approached a millimeter in view of the various proposals which have been put forward since March in relation to what was its original proposal and we continue to step up the increase in the national minimum wage. What is the sign that when other countries are increasing their wages—in Spain, Germany, because they know that this is important to their economies—and in Portugal we maintain a situation in which the minimum wage continues to step up and in which heavy standards are not removed from labour law in order to protect medium wages? Mr President, on the subject of an intervention which talks about economic growth, we cannot but question it about the productive sectors. Does it concern you, or is it not, that Portugal, for example, now has a supply of cereals for only 15 days, when there are serious problems with the distribution of cereals at the international level? Is that a concern or not? When we see that we are losing more and more industrial capacity, which is very important for our country—with the closure of the Matosinhos refinery, we have been importing refined fuel for months, instead of refining it in our country, because there is a failure in Sines and the only alternative that was closed by Galp, with the approval of the Government—does it not consider that the absence of this refinery and by-products that would be necessary for industrial poles, such as the industrial pole of Estarreja, also contributes to the destruction of our industrial capacity? These are the fundamental issues when we talk about growth and when we talk about innovation: our industry and our productive capacity. In addition to the «unicorns», in addition to the Web Summit, I would also like to hear about it. We also need to meet what is production in our country, which is what truly creates wealth. Finally, we would also like to ask about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u265	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u266	I should like to conclude by asking the following question: so far we have seen nothing substantial in relation to energy costs, fuel costs or urban lease costs and many companies face enormous difficulties. What measures does the Government put forward? What answers does the government have for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u267	You have the floor to answer these two requests for clarification, Mr. Miguel Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the speech of the honourable Member of the Liberal Initiative has given a certain angry right to see the European economy grow, a angry right to see our labour market respond to this recovery and already with more employment than it had before the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The clear and unforgettable fact is that this zanga has previous origins, at a time when the country was converging with the European Union for the first time in this century. The right cannot accept that in all the years of the last 30 in which he ruled he failed to make the economy grow, but that since the Socialist Party has ruled in the last 30 years, we have not only made the economy grow gradually, as well as, moreover, the factors of growth. Since the qualifications, which are both said to be important for private investment or for innovation, the investment in Research and Development or foreign direct investment is with the governments of the Socialist Party that each of these growth factors has been growing and on which the economic base of our country has been diversifying. We know that Mr Duarte Alves has experience in the area of tourism, but fortunately thanks to the economic policies of our country and this socialist government, it has been possible to diversify our economy and today, responding also to Mr Duarte Alves, we have more industry in our country, we have an enlarged economic base and we have an increasingly knowledge economy in which my generation, to have a job in its area and with good wages, does not need to emigrate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr Risosdo Member of the IL, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] Mr Duarte Alves, the truth is that this path is far from over. And yes, many of our generation still go to other borders, to other countries, in search of better opportunities. But together, over these six years, we have developed income policies that have raised the living conditions of our generation and of all generations in this country. This is what happened to the national minimum wage, which covers about 20 percent of the workers, but in our generation goes beyond 30 percent and has risen from €505 to €705 by now next year. For those who deduce, saying that the announcement had already come since March, it is important to say that this is the greatest ever increase of the national minimum wage. It doesn't matter if it's March, if it's two years ago, because, yes, our commitment to the minimum wage began at the beginning of the Legislature and it's a commitment we're going to honor. But it is a commitment that extends to other areas, such as, for example, to the increase in public service or to the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional) scholarships, because this also allows us to ensure a signal to the private market that wages need to be raised. I have also done so in the other ways of increasing the income available, either by the tax relief of middle-class families, which we have done together and which we would like to be able to do also this year, with the proposal of the State Budget which was dropped last week, but also, for example, with the freeness of school textbooks or with the cheapest passes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u269	That's it! What now?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u270	And did you believe them?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u271	That is how we managed to raise the income of the Portuguese people and what we really managed to make the difference for an economy where there is not only a different productive structure, but also better wages. And so we were able to consolidate this right-wing zanga, with growth, with convergence, which only we, on the left, were able to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u272	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u273	Mr. President, Mr. Miguel Matos, I will leave the last considerations you have made for the malt on my left side,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u274	What's that? Oh, my God! “ Malta ”? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u275	... because, in fact, the PSD has a lot to answer to its statements. To some extent, I could also respond to some, but I'm going to let that go for the PSD. I will ask you about several points in your speech. Firstly, he spoke to us in economic growth. Economic growth in Portugal is based on an unbridled context of infinite growth in consumption on a planet that obviously has finite resources. Is this the economic policy that the Socialist Party wants to defend so much? He told us about the importance of the Web Summit. I share this statement, however, let's not forget that the country is paying, and paying well, for the Web Summit to be here doing its job. We also do not forget that one of the companies mentioned here by Mr Amazon — is a company that will undoubtedly exploit its employees. Is this the kind of companies that the Socialist Party wants to attract to generate jobs in Portugal? Then there is something in your statement that you mention very superficially, which has to do with competitiveness. Where is the responsible competitiveness in our country when we benefit from companies that are based in tax havens, reading the business fabric in Portugal and condemning our companies to a weak competitiveness in the international landscape? Is this the level of competitiveness that the Socialist Party wants? Finally, future economic policy takes into account its impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u276	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u277	Where are the incentives for organic farming? EUR 180 million is what Denmark invests in organic agriculture and products alternative to meat and fish consumption. Where is the investment in short distribution chains?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u278	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u279	Is this the economic landscape that the Socialist Party defends? Finally, technological innovation will greatly damage the work fabric in Portugal. Do you see the RBI(unconditional basic income) as a possible solution to the loss of employment due to these innovations? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u280	Mr Nelson Silva, it is not, above all, with regard to the management of your time that I will draw your attention to, but, rather, with regard to the language you have used recently, that I did not realize, but to which you have drawn attention. This is not about'malt' on the left or on the right, but about benches of Members and parliamentary groups. We need to be careful about the language. [[Greetings from PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u281	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u282	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u283	Madam President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau. I appreciate and thank you for your comment, but I would appreciate that in relation to behaviours or other language much worse than other political forces in this Parliament was also called to mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u285	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. For a request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u286	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Matos, when the Socialist Party talks about the need to look to the future, for young people, who still go through a great precarious and low salary and who need more and better employment, and concludes with the Web Summit, for us it is at least strange. In fact, in addition to an event, we are talking — not to mention the money that is paid every year by the city of Lisbon directly, out of everything else — of entrepreneurship, of « unicorns», which is a bit unbelievable, of « digital nomads», but we do not hear about the other side of the coin, and that is what we also wanted to talk about. For example, I refer to the tax package for so-called "digital nomads". Even now, at the beginning of the Summit Web, we have seen Twitter advertising to our country as being very good to pay very little, or almost not to pay taxes, for these so-called "digital entrepreneurs". It seems to me that it is not a model of development that we should want for our country, on the basis of advertising to the so-called « nomads», that no one knows very well what they are, to the « entrepreneurs », which also have a lot to tell them, so that they come here because they will not pay taxes. I don't think that's the model of growth we want. Nor has it been mentioned, for example, the consequences of the 'growth' of the economy and work, and that would, yes, be a very important part of its intervention, which I hope will now deepen a little. We are talking about the degradation of labour relations that have only, as a result of the long term, more precarious and not the other way around. So, at least once a year, we are talking about this issue — the Web Summit — and this year we are talking about "unicorns", empty promises about the economy, which, in fact, have deliberately ignored the consequences that this type of economic development model has for the economies, but above all, for the workers. The question I leave you with is the following: if we want to talk about economy and its growth, do you not believe that we have to talk about work, talk about labour laws, talk about the need to increase wages and not just tax bills and sales of promises that, if we are all our own boss, we will be able to be synonymous in life?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u287	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u288	I shall end, Madam President, with another question: is the PS either a Summit Web economy and promises or an alternative model, which was the one being made, but for which has it been intransigent? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u289	To request clarification, Mr. Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u290	Madam President, Mr. Miguel Matos, I begin by telling you that I have seldom seen in my long professional life connected to digital, such virtualization of reality, which is what you did. And, really, I've been doing this for many years. Let me remind you that, in terms of connectivity, new technologies and Web Summit, for example, in the case of Portugal being able to be a hub for all the submarine cables that now start to emerge in the Atlantic and connect Europe what has been done is: nothing! Sir, don't put your hands on your head. I'll demonstrate what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u291	Mr. Miguel Matos, hear who you know! Listen to who knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u292	About the country's opportunity to take advantage of the undersea fiber optic ring (CAM), which was an advanced gateway to Europe and which is signed in a mooring in the Azores and Madeira, do you know what your government has done for six years? Zero! Totally zero! But I say more: do you know what the big companies in the technological field say about coming to Portugal? They say there are three problems: bureaucracy, taxation and lack of country capacity to offer connectivity conditions. I remember, for example, that only last week has solved the impasse of 5G. Are you forgetting that we are the last country in Europe to have 5G? You think that's normal? Do you think it was necessary for Mr. Prime Minister to come and draw his ears to the regulator? Notice: your PRR, for this area that you have so much appreciated, gives a allocation of about 60 % for the Public Administration, 20 % for companies and 19 % for digital school. This is your bet on a generation of digital economy and a generation of future. Moreover, only 26 % of Portuguese workers have digital skills in the user's perspective and only 12 % have extensive competences. Are these the political options that you want to promote a digital generation and win in an economy that does not, in its interpretation, pass from virtualization?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u293	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u294	I conclude now, Madam President. It is absolutely unacceptable to digital inequality that your incompetence imposed on a generation of children in the provision of computers in schools. This generation has been damaged by your incompetence and inaction. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u295	To reply, Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u296	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP, are very concerned about unbridled economic growth. For, on the part of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we are concerned, it is natural, with the sustainability of our economic growth and it has proved not only sustained but also greater than the growth of other countries of the European Union. Mr President, one thing is certain: we need to have more economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u298	We are not concerned with excessive economic growth; there must be more. I tell you one thing, Mr President: if you are concerned about the environmental sustainability of economic growth, then let's look at the indicator that everyone uses to do this analysis, which is the carbon intensity of GDP, read the emissions that need to be emitted to produce 1 € of wealth. Between 2011 and 2017 it was possible to reduce emissions because the country has impoverished and because some have found that the development model was to lower wages and cut in pensions and public services, but since 2017 it has been possible to achieve a reduction in the carbon intensity of GDP, that is, we have grown more than the European Union, and indeed we have reduced emissions more than the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is also concerned about the responsible competitiveness. It is important to say that this Government has a sustained and responsible policy for competitiveness, which does not have easy words for companies in tax havens. And even in the Budget of the last State, on a proposal from the ENP, we have adopted measures in this regard. But let's see: we've been talking about clusters and Michael Porter for over 30 years. It was this government that implemented competitive contracts for clusters. Who has made the Internationalization Programme for Business Associations able to work together with the State and there is an internationalization of companies? It was this government, a Government of the Socialist Party with responsible competitiveness. Mrs. Deputy of the Left Block Isabel Pires said that it was strange that we talked about the Web Summit. And I'd like to ask you if you don't think it's important for Lauak's workers, in Setúbal, or Mecachrome, in Évora, or PSA, in Mangualde, to be an increasingly known country out there for innovation. Do you not think it is essential that companies not just stay here to produce the pieces, which is important, but stay here to draw them, to investigate and thus bring more value added and better jobs to our country? [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the difference in the economic model that we have built together and that some want to interrupt. The honourable Member also spoke of the 'growth' of our economy. In fact, with last week's votes, the Dignified Work Agenda solved much of the problems of digital platform workers, which unfortunately remained in limbo. Well, it will be up to all of us to have the ability, if the Portuguese people give us this opportunity in the next Parliament, to continue this path and to be able to solve the problems of those people who deserve rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u299	Mr. Paulo Moniz, from the PSD, told us about submarine cables and data centers. It seems you have forgotten that not only is the underwater fiber optic ring to be developed as in Sines is planned, from now on, there is a transatlantic connection that will bring the internet faster and that has already been absolutely decisive for a data center, an investment of the biggest ever, to be made here in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For those who know so much about economics, ignoring a fact of this is strange! [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Moniz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u300	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u301	I conclude, Madam President. Of course, Mr. Paulo Moniz ignores it. And more: it forgets that on the third island there was an absolutely fundamental project to attract technological companies, and indeed it had already attracted hundreds of jobs, the Third Tech Island, which was absolutely broken down by the new Regional Government of the Azores, which is a great loss for our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So when he speaks of bureaucracy, connectivity, taxation, one thing is certain: the companies have come and the honourable Member is completely wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u302	For a political statement, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u303	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: If someone arrived today in Portugal and heard Mr. Miguel Matos, he would think that we live in an extraordinary country that looks forward and that, quoting the honourable Member himself, « has every reason to look forward». [[PS protests.]] But the truth is that those who arrive today in our country see that we have a political crisis caused by three parties: the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP. The Left Block or, of course, after electoral disarray in electoral disorder, return to the streets so that it can freely regain the electorate who has lost associated with such a policy of innovation and growth of the Socialist Party. The PCP, killed and wounded by losing fundamental municipal chambers in this country, now wants to leave its partner of always realizing that Loures didn't count on him to win and maintain an authority that ended up losing for the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party, of course, with the ticks of José Socrates always present, went running to Bethlehem to say that it wants elections as quickly as possible. It is to see them parade at the exit of Bethlehem and at the entrance of Saint Benedict to say: «Please, we want elections quickly, because we have an absolute majority to win». After the elections, this Parliament will probably be very different... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ...and let me tell you that we will not miss the present Parliament. This Parliament is what leaves the country with the worst purchasing power over 11 years; this socialist government leaves the poorest country for 11 years; this Parliament and this government leave Portugal behind countries of the East. We have heard here today exalt innovation in Portugal, but forget that a large part of the country still has no network or access to communications. That is what this Parliament has given us and that is what leaves us the socialist government: a country immersed in the debate and in the avenue of racism and the ghosts that do not exist to forget what really matters, the fight against endemic corruption that is installed in Portugal and that continues to destroy our country. [[Protests of PS Members.]] In fact, it is this collective Alzheimer's that marks this legislation well. If there is an image that will mark this Parliament and this government is perhaps this: Ricardo Salgado with Alzheimer's holiday in Sardinia. This is probably the best image of this government and Parliament. And when we left so many Portuguese behind, what we're going to discuss on Thursday is euthanasia. After leaving behind pensioners, after leaving behind palliative care in health, after leaving an SNS on the brink of ruin, what we have to give to the Portuguese, hastily and with fear of a majority of right in this Chamber, is the assisted drug death, which will be discussed in a hurry and approved at three steps in this Assembly of the Republic,... [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] ... as if it were not the country with the lowest pensions in Europe, as if it were not the country with one of the highest youth emigration rates in the European Union, as if it were not the second country with the lowest average gross wage in the European Union. How can we ask the Portuguese people to look seriously at this Parliament when, when, before its dissolution, they are quick to discuss, once again, everything that has no interest in the common Portuguese and those who were outside were expecting any solution? But I address myself to the right today in a particular way. It is the right that will have to appear as an alternative to this parliamentary majority, it is the right that will have to be able to prevent this socialist spot from extending even more, either to its left block, or to its right block. It is up to us to make and show the difference that we have an alternative for Portugal and this alternative cannot be the alternative of cuts, it cannot be the alternative of reductions, it must be the alternative of more wealth and more income distribution, it must be the alternative of better employment and an unprecedented update of pensions, because we have the most badly paid pensioners in Europe. The other day, as I was going through a part of the country, a fireman injured in Pedrogão approached me. I received 143 € / month. This is the shameful country that pays to some who are arrested thousands of euros and forgets shot firefighters in combat who have been fighting and giving body for their country to give it the minimum of dignity. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] On the right, what do we have to do? It is to forget the country of the poor, of the dependents, is to forget those who from years to this part continue to eat a large portion of the national wealth and we have the courage, for the first time in our history, to give to those who work and to those who effectively deserve the effort that they have made and did for Portugal. It is from this new right that the Portuguese wait and ask for solutions. We must be able to look now at the future not to think about taking away, but to think that we can offer the Portuguese, now yes, a future of prosperity, wealth and justice. Not a country that takes each other to give to others or a country that separates its best and sends its young emigration,... [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]] ...but a country that wants everyone and is ashamed when a young person emigrates or when a pensioner dies because he has to choose between food at the table or medicines for his health. This is what the new right has to give Portugal and the Portuguese. Now that this path is going to start indelibly, we do not have two or three options, we have only one: to bring to Portugal the strength and the flavor of this modernity that we want to bring. Socialism showed that for six years it impoverished us year after year. It is time to show that we will achieve together, not together, half together, with given arm, given hand, without given arm, without given hand, with no given hand... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u304	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u305	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is time to show that we are going to give Portugal a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the future is ours, so we can fight for it in the next legislative elections! [[PS protests and CH counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u306	For a political statement, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Continuation of CH counter-protests. Mr. André Ventura, no one has asked you for clarification, so if you don't mind, you have no answers to give. Please, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current political situation has both a crisis and an opportunity — the opportunity that the Portuguese will have to be able to choose freely whatever future they want for their country. This choice, which is important and will be difficult in some cases, will be so much more conscious when one perceives what is effectively involved. First of all, it is important to make it clear that the PS has the greatest responsibility for the impasse we have reached. It is true that the whole left has been irresponsible in managing the budget crisis, but the original responsibility lies with the PS and Antonio Costa, who have opted for management, a solution without programmatic coherence that, sooner or later, would conclude that it was only useful to reverse policies, but not to build a common vision. Management served to destroy, not to build, and the whole country knew it. But the responsibility of the PS is not left here. It is clear that, somewhere in this process, the PS has seen a chance of taking advantage of the political-party situation to go in search of an absolute majority. This is what justifies the narrative of victimization and pass-backs that immediately put the propaganda machine in motion. The absolute majority perspective of PS is so scary that it doesn't even use expression itself, preferring the euphemism of the reinforced and stable majority. The Portuguese have seen the voracity with which the relative majority of PS took account of the state apparatus and will not run the risk of giving it an absolute majority — until the PS machine presses that. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal cannot continue to depend on whom it has had these responsibilities and on whom it has shown this irresponsibility. Portugal needs a new direction, a new energy. The Liberal Initiative is available to contribute to this direction with its ideas, its requirements and its energy. And also, with its consistency as a liberal party that does not waver in defending individual freedom, without which, we believe, there can be no development as a country. These elections will be another opportunity for the Liberal Initiative to stress the importance of defending freedom in all areas of our political, economic, social and private life. In political freedom, which is central to the health of our democratic system, we will propose, during the campaign, the reintroduction of the fifteen-year debates, this basic form of scrutiny of the activity of any government on which the PSD and PS have agreed to eliminate. We will propose the reform of the electoral system to bring voters closer together once and for all and give representation to hundreds of thousands of votes that are wasted in all elections. With regard to economic freedom, without which we will not have the growth that will bring opportunities for all and the resources to face the other challenges, we will propose the systematic strengthening of the transparency of the application of public money, not only of those who now speak so much about the PRR and the structural funds, but also of the decision-making processes leading to decisions such as to bury EUR 4 billion in the TAP and then those who follow will have to pay for generations. We will talk again about the reduction and simplification of taxation that the country needs to grow again, either in taxation on people's incomes, reducing the record number and the complication of steps, rates and deductions in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), either in taxation on businesses, without which there will be no reproductive investment or job creation well paid, by eliminating the state spill and gradual reduction of the rate of IRC (tax on income of the public) with a view to leaving the last places of the tax competitiveness list. It is necessary to free people and companies from the real fiscal suffocation they have lived in! With regard to social freedoms, particularly those relating to freedom of choice of public services, we will talk, during the campaign, of a genuine reform of the SNS, which guarantees universal access to health care rather than universal access to waiting lists, placing citizens at the centre of priorities and introducing competition between care providers. Everyone already realized that it was not enough to throw money over the SNS, which today spends more than 30 % of what it spent a few years ago, but still does not respond to the needs of the Portuguese. The SNS is collapsing every day in front of the complicity and indifferent look of those who claim to defend it. It's the left that's destroying the SNS! We will also talk about the changes to the education system that not only has ceased to play its role as a social elevator, but has also become a mediocrity spreader that perpetuates inequality. It is urgent that at the heart of these changes be the interests of students and their families and not the elective interests of the PS or the PCP trade unions. In fundamental freedoms, we will continue on the front line of the defence of fundamental human rights, wherever they are violated: in Portugal, China, Russia, Hungary, Belarus, Venezuela, Poland.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u308	What about the United States?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u309	In the defence of freedom of expression in analogical or digital means, we shall ensure that the sinister attempts of censorship are not repeated, such as that which was prepared with the infamous Article 6. the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age or with the possibility of any state body preventing access to websites without judicial mandate. We are going to talk about freedom of the press, without which the small and great abuses of power will be ever closer to passing without sanctions, as yesterday it became clear about impunity with which, four months after the death of worker Nuno Santos, the PS rulers continue to accelerate on our roads. We will defend all freedoms which are restricted, as is the case with the applicant's card, which the IL brought to this Chamber a month ago. At the time, the Prime Minister gave us reason, but nothing has happened — it is also typical — and already the sports season goes in half. We're going to insist next week, for the benefit of the fans, the families and the finance of the clubs. Of all this, and much more, the choice of Portuguese will be made in the forthcoming elections, for which an enlightening campaign is expected. For this reason, and for the sake of national interest, we ask Mr President of the Republic to mark a date allowing time for this clarification, either through debate or through a campaign that does not overlap with the date of the holiday. You have the sovereign word Mr. President of the Republic. The Liberal Initiative is ready, whatever the date. We trust that more and more Portuguese recognize that we need new energy to change this state of affairs. More and more Portuguese realize that the new energy is liberal, that change is liberal and that, therefore, the future is liberal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u310	Mr President, you have no requests for clarification, so we are moving on to the next political statement. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, registrations for requests for clarification should be made while the speaker is speaking. In order to make a request for clarification to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, Mr. Fernando Anastácio of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u311	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, if you allow me to play, if you change the scenario and you were not in the Assembly of the Republic, your intervention would be in any liberal camp, for example. Such would be perfectly compatible with this place! Mr President, today, for those who are in the Assembly of the Republic and started speaking about crisis, of parties seeking elections at all costs, to improve their majority and their position in society in terms of representation, he was able to do no more than present his electoral manifesto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u313	In fact, the Liberal Initiative has been giving us some time for the contradictions of its programme, its speech outside Parliament and its speech in Parliament. For example, regarding the State Budget for 2021, he said that it was insufficient in support of companies, in support of people, in support of such a National Health Service, but we know why he said that. Therefore, in essence, it is a Liberal Initiative that cries out by the State. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, once and for all, decides: or he even wants to have that speech of the IRS with a unique and equal table for all, abandoning progressiveity, or even a state that ultimately places money on some services, but not to be universal and public services, such as the National Health Service or the school, and, yes, to finance the private sectors of health and education. Make up your mind, Mr. Deputy! It's important! Finally, I want to ask you a question. If the honourable Member had a critical perspective on the country's economic reality, he had said so, but he was unable. You know why? Because you know the recent numbers of economic growth and employment and clearly know that a speech critical to the country's economic reality does not collapse. Therefore, he did not do so and preferred to opt for his electoral programme, for his campaign action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u314	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u315	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, I do not do anything wrong with the jokes about the camp, but I thought they were welcome. The joke wasn't very funny.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u316	For you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u317	There was some sensitivity enough to realize that I went to that gallery to recognize that we are going to have early elections and explain to the Portuguese what we are going to talk about. I'm not going to say one thing here and another out there, i.e., it's exactly the opposite of what you wanted to say. I say right here—as I just did—what I will say in campaign. Here we will be at the end of the same campaign to see if it wasn't exactly what I talked about. If you have found contradictions between the two speeches or between the speeches and the programme, you can only have heard the speeches correctly or have not read the programme. I suspect it's a bit of both. For example, it is said that the proposal of the IRS Single Rate Liberal Initiative abandons progressiveity, so it is because it does not read it or then does not know what progressiveity is.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u318	I read!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u319	Do you have a lion? Oh, my God! So explain to me how our proposal is not progressive! It is certainly because there is enough exemption — our proposal has an exemption which currently goes to 700 €, more specific deductions of 200 € per child — to be progressive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u320	Yes, yes, yes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u321	Secondly, it says that we are asking for support from worlds and state funds for companies. Where? Is tax reduction support for companies? Mr. Deputies, let's see if we understand ourselves: the money the State charged to companies was originally from whom? The money the state charged to people was originally from whom? To reduce taxes and return taxes to people is to give money to whom? This notion that tax money is state money and that the state does the great favor of returning to people is the original sin. This is why we are debating ourselves! As for public services and what we defend for public services, once again I say that I do not read the program or pretend to read it or read it badly. What we defend is not that the State pays more by the National Health Service. I've even said that it's spending more than 30 % and it's not working better! You think it's a matter of money? Will you reach that conclusion when you spend more than 200 % on what you spend today? There are different and better ways, in our opinion, of doing. When I have more than 6 minutes of intervention time, I will explain exactly what the reform of the National Health Service is. Until then, I will say again what I said in reply to my colleague Miguel Costa Matos, who did not even have the courtesy to mention my name in his reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u322	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u323	But I will mention your : Mr Fernando Anastácio, I tell you that the economic growth that the PS is so proud of was only consistent with that of the European Union when its three largest economies were below that average growth. It is obvious that it was the others who diverged and that it was not us who converged.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u324	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u325	More, if you think Portuguese economic growth is very good today, why are we going to reach the end of 2022 with 24 countries closer to GDP than we did in 2019?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u326	For a political statement, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u327	Madam President, in the words of Audrey Lorde, a black and active feminist: "I am not free while another woman is a prisoner, even if her currents are different from mine". This is the feminism we are cultivating, with equality policies and gender equality legislation that takes into account the experiences of impoverished women, black women, Roma women, trans women and minority groups. We are talking about equality, but more than equality, we are talking about intersectionality, a policy of not indifference, of revolutionary empathy that only an inclusive feminism can constitute. We also talk about representativeness, not the one that suits the structures, but the representativeness that reaches the future and that sees beyond the hard and violent structures, such as this Assembly of the Republic. Vilma Reis, a Brazilian black politician, said that «the black women who push left to left», in the same way that Sueli Carneiro also said : «I, a black woman, between left and right, continue to be black». Why? Because we still live here, too, the colonial heritage and it is shared by all the houses that are here, today, in sometimes different ways, through a permanent shout, but sometimes using the Rules of Procedure and the formalities to silence, to kneel, to scorn. But I also inform you that there is a change that has begun. This change has no end, this change has no end with me, nor does it end with any of us here. She'll go on, she's born, she's been watered and she's going to bloom. I use to send a special compliment to all women in Portugal who are victims of misogyny, but above all to all black and gypsy women, simultaneously victims of misogyny and daily racism, called to live in an environment of discrimination and always abandoned. I end my speech today, very excited, but I end up with a poem by Maya Angelou, in which she says: "You can record me in history/With your perverse lies/ You can hide me on the dirt floor/ But still, like dust, I will rise. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PAN and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u328	For a political statement, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues. [[Pause.]] Mrs Elza Pais asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u329	To request clarification, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u330	Madam Member, the Bureau can't guess who's going to ask for clarification or not. You have to sign up, and you have not signed up, during the speech of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u331	I'm sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u332	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, you have a request for clarification if you don't mind. If you do mind, there is no request for clarification, because the request was made late, but if you do not mind, then it will be done. Please, Mrs. Elza Pais, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u333	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, I would like to welcome this very strong political statement on equality and non-discrimination. Yes, being a woman is a more discriminated person. And when you belong to an ethnic minority, when you belong to an LGBTI group (Lesbics, Gays, Bissexuals, Transgender and Intersex), when you are a disabled person, even more discriminated against if you are. We are in the context of double discrimination. So I cannot fail to welcome this issue today on our political agenda. The PS has always been on the front line, Mrs Deputy, throughout these 50 years of democracy, to combat discrimination and to promote equality, as we have now been, in the crisis, with this political configuration, in which we prevent the backwardness of the right to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u334	... we promote assisted drug procreation for all women, we promote more rights for LGBTI people. I am very sorry that this is not going on, because this budget has just been rejected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] In the crisis, we never left anyone behind. In the crisis, we defined early measures to support victims of domestic violence, with sms, with more shelters. In the crisis, we never let anyone stay behind. We also approved the law on prevention and combating racial discrimination and, as you know, there is a plan, the national plan against racism, which is included in this State budget. The honourable Member has made it possible, and I welcome - for this reason, its political responsibility - a document that would combat poverty, which would fight poverty with women, which would fight poverty with children, which would combat inequalities, which would fight racism, a fundamental document for the progress that we need to continue to make in order to achieve equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u335	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u336	Madam President, I do not have time to talk about the transversality of gender that this document integrates within the framework of housing with dignity, signaling single-parent families, which are the ones most difficult to access to a decent housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u337	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u338	In conclusion, I recall that we are here to continue to make this path of progress, to continue to make this path of more social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u339	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u340	Madam President, Mrs Elza Pais, I will not necessarily question all legislative efforts, but I need to say that these efforts are still insufficient. Here in the Assembly I have introduced huge legislative initiatives precisely to change the legislation with the aim of « derailing it », and this was something I greatly wanted the PS to inherit. That's it, alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u341	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now, yes, for a political statement, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u342	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this one of the last speeches I make in this plenary, I could not stop talking about gender equality, which has marked my work in this legislature. For millennia, women have been the target of domination and embarrassment and, in the middle of the 21st century, gender inequality continues to be a reality. We can testify to this in various dimensions of our society: in the numbers of victims of femicide and domestic violence, in the significant wage asymmetries between women and men, in the division of domestic work. Portugal has now risen to 15. the place in the Gender Equality Index, but still continues with a score below the European average. This low score was mainly due to social activities, in which it was found that 78 % of women over the age of 18 cook or do household chores every day, compared to 19 % of men. It is in the sharing and use of time that the European Institute for Gender Equality ( European Institute for Gender Equality) has concluded that gender inequalities are more pronounced, and at this point Portugal occupies the second lowest among the 27 countries of the European Union. The labour market in Portugal, despite the legislative and social changes we have witnessed, is unfortunately still characterized by discrimination in access to jobs and functions based on the so-called gender roles. In 2018, Portugal was reported as the European Union country in which the wage gap between men and women grew more, a situation that was aggravated by the pandemic context. The pandemic has had a much higher impact on women than on men, since it is working more often on a precarious regime, thus being more exposed to risks. Women have lost their jobs more easily or have suffered a reduction in maturity, becoming more subject to poverty and their economic independence has been threatened. On the other hand, many of the women who have managed to keep their jobs have, in most cases, been given a restless reality between work and family care, and in this context there has also been a reversal. In fact, and already outside the context of the pandemic, although women have more qualifications, this does not result in greater employability and better working conditions. According to data from the European Institute for Gender Equality, women make up 80% of health workers in Portugal, 86% of older caregivers and 93% of child caregivers. Despite the massive entry of women into the labour market over the last few decades, they continue to occupy most of the positions of caregivers, and it is anticipated that it will take five to six generations to achieve a balanced distribution of domestic tasks among the sexes. Through differentiated socialization, the sexual division of work imposes on women the performance of a maternal role, which is deeply associated with domestic space, which consequently implies its depreciation because it is « female work». In one way or another, women categorizedly occupy the most precarious jobs. The growing phenomenon of feminization of poverty, that is, the existence of a close relationship between the highest levels of poverty and women, including women-headed families, takes a worrying background when we consider the dimension of menstrual poverty. Thus, in addition to menstrual poverty being an expression of gender inequality, it is at the same time a strengthening of that same inequality. For all these reasons, it is crucial to involve women in the legislative process. In fact, when we look, for example, at the composition of the Assembly of the Republic, it seems that our population is mostly composed of men, white, straight, middle-aged. Our society is much more diverse. In race, gender, sexual orientation, physical limitations, among other characteristics. If we want people to feel represented, we must enable them to sit in the Assembly of the Republic people they identify with. We know that the presence of women in parliaments makes them more sensitive to gender equality and enables them to prioritize themes that, although they affect a significant part of the population, have been considered smaller. It is essential to prioritize sexual education, with a view to preventing violence against women, in all its forms, such as domestic, sexual and obstetric violence. It is also necessary to talk about topics such as voluntary interruption of pregnancy, gestational loss or equal parental leave. Having said this, and even though women are half our population, I cannot fail to mention that these are still underrepresented in political positions and this happens in Portugal and the rest of the world. According to the UN, about 75% of seats in parliaments remain occupied by men. At this rate it is estimated that it will take half a century to achieve parity. In our country, we have about 90 deputies in the universe of 230. As far as the authorities are concerned, the scenario is even worse. of the 308 municipalities only 29 are presided over by women. It is therefore necessary to think deeply about what sets women apart from politics, and I have no doubt, in most cases, that there will be a lack of opportunity. It is essential to combat the stigma that women are less prepared, less competent or less interested in politics. The law of parity was important and effectively managed to bring more women to politics; however, not in sufficient numbers and clearly has failed with regard to women's access to certain positions. It is not a question of being against meritocracy but of ensuring equal opportunities. It is clear that a great deal of progress has already been made, until the 1970s women were mostly at home, they could not even vote, that is, they actually arrived much later on in politics. That is why we must ensure that they now have the opportunities to make the choices they understand. It is clear that not all women want to be in politics, as well as men, but it is our obligation to make that path easier for those who want to do so. Quotas are not a perfect system, but, given the current circumstances, they are clearly necessary. In fact, the belief that, in principle, in the female universe of the various political parties, there are no women as competent as men is symptomatic of a culture that devalues women themselves and their contribution to life in society. Consequently, the subjects that are somehow more associated with women are also devalued. We must therefore seek to have a more just and equal society. This is a responsibility of all people, but with particular relevance when it comes to the exercise of political office. As Tiago Rollino, a researcher at the Centre for Social Studies ( CES ), defends men as fundamental allies in this struggle, where rights are not intended to be withdrawn but will always involve the loss of privileges. Therefore, the challenge I leave to this House is that in the next legislation gender equality is a priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u343	To request clarification, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u344	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, who brings us a reflection that is always a reflection from our day to day. To talk about equality is to talk about development, to talk about an increasingly just society. Our Constitution is very clear about the need to maintain and grow in the implementation of active equality policies, legitimizing all active gender policy measures. from our point of view, equality and non-discrimination are essential conditions for the construction of a sustainable future in our country, as a country that effectively accomplishes what human rights are. We believe that, in parallel with this constitutional obligation, equality and freedom are fundamental pillars of the existence of our democracy, which we always want to see consolidated. We remember that Portugal is part of the main international instruments, highlighting in this fight the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. The Member's political statement brings us today a reflection on all the initiatives that have been implemented by this House of the Republic, but it also reminds us that there is still a great and long way to go. We know that all the data that has brought us are real: that there are fewer women in political power places, that there are fewer women in leadership places and that women still do not have the wage equality that is intended. This is a work that the PS has taken very clearly over the past six years. Therefore, in this House of the Republic, there was a lot of legislation that allowed a fundamental leap. Tomorrow we will all be here, I presume, to continue this work, which is essential for democracy to be consolidated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u345	In reply, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u346	Madam President, I thank Mrs Alexandra Tavares and agree with what she said: it is a matter on which much has already been done, but which is still much to do and I leave the challenge to look again at the law of parity, which I believe deserves a review. It is also necessary to value domestic work, which has not happened either, and also a very strong bet on education, with a particular focus on sexual education. This is to prevent problems of violence against women, which we also know is something that we have not yet been able to overcome and which continues to be in the news, in our daily lives, and which is something that is fundamental to our working. I really hope that this path will continue to be pursued and that it will be more and more done for women's rights and equality. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u347	We have concluded this unique item on the agenda. Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo has the usual information to provide to Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u348	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform the House that they have entered Mr. President's office, and have been admitted, Bills No. 1005 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) and 1006 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), down to 13. the Commission. Finally, I should like to inform you that Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD was present via videoconferencing. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-02.u349	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Before we say goodbye, I also have the usual information to give. I therefore inform you that tomorrow there is no plenary session, which will meet next Thursday, at 15 hours and 15 minutes, with the following agenda: in point 1 we have the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 109 / XIV — Rules the conditions under which the assisted drug death is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code. paragraph 2 shows the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 176 / XIV — Amendment to the rules for the framework of the Local Economy Support Programme. Point 3 consists of the discussion of the Bill No 115 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support and expedite business restructuring and payment agreements and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1023 on preventive restructuring schemes, debt forgiveness and inhibitions. In point 4 we will have the opinion of the Bill No 117 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Ensures compliance with agreements between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in respect of extradition and freezing, seizure and loss of property. Point 5, without time for discussion, consists of motion for resolution No 29 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Mobility Agreement between the Member States of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. Finally, in point 6, the joint assessment of Petition No 103 / XIV / 1 will take place. a (Eliana de Oliveira Gonçalves et al.) — Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: provision of new NurOwn treatment for Portuguese patients and the Resolution Project No 1133 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Availability of therapeutic innovation for treatment of lateral amyotrophic sclerosis. It is left to say goodbye until Thursday to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, wish them a good night. Thank you all very much. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 55 minutes.]]
