ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] Today's agenda has as its only, strong point, the debate on the state of the nation. However, before we start the debate, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will take over the file. You have the floor, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I will inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bill No. 915 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 6. the Commission and draft resolution No 1427 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR). It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us now start the debate on the state of the nation. For the opening intervention, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, has the floor, which I take advantage of to greet strongly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Allow me - let me go directly to the topic of this debate - What does the state of the nation require of us? of the pandemic, clearly highlight five priorities. First: complete the vaccination process. We are in a race against time, a race between vaccination and the succession of new variants. We have met the targets set and, as expected, in mid-August we will have 73 % of the adult population with full vaccination and 82 % with at least the first dose administered. It is therefore time to extend our ambition and also ensure the protection of children and young people. And we must do so in good time so that the new school year can be resumed without any further interruptions in present education. We are waiting, as we know, for a final decision by the Directorate-General for Health on the vaccination of children and young people, but everything is prepared so that in the weekend between August 14 and September 19 two doses of vaccine can be administered at around 570,000 children and young people between 12 and 17 years of age. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Second priority: to continue strengthening the National Health Service ( SNS ). It was well demonstrated the importance of the investment initiated in 2016 in human resources, which enabled the National Health Service to strengthen with more than 28,984 health professionals, of which 4366 since the end of last year. It is now necessary to ensure that it is linked through competitions that are already open and to initiate the implementation of the full dedication scheme as provided for in our Government Programme and the Health Bases Act. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Investment in the National Health Service has not begun, nor can it be exhausted in the fight against pandemics. Therefore, we dedicated to the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ) €1383 million to strengthen mental and oral health programs, equip health centers with complementary diagnostic means, create mobile units for the provision of health care in low density regions and open 5500 continuous care beds and other 400 for palliative care. Third priority: regaining learning. The suspension of present educational activities affected the learning process of many students and accentuated inequalities. It is therefore essential to carry out, over the next two academic years, an ambitious Learning Recovery Plan. This plan, on the one hand, provides for greater pedagogical autonomy in schools, in the organization of the school calendar, in the adaptation of the curriculum and in the flexible management of classes. On the other hand, there is an increase in the number of teachers and technicians specialized in schools, in particular through the strengthening of hourly credits and the extension of tutoring programmes to support students with the greatest difficulties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In total, between strengthening human resources, continuing training, betting on new digital resources and setting up schools, we will invest around EUR 900 million in the next two years to promote school success and ensure that this generation is not damaged or irremediably marked by the COVID pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourth priority: to implement a decent and rights-based agenda. The pandemic highlighted, on the one hand, the need for better regulation of telework and work on digital platforms and, on the other, the huge social disprotection that precariousness leads to. In particular, the shocking ways of hiding real and own work relationships were patented, through informality, intermittentness, rotational activity, supposedly independent or even supposedly business activities. All the work and also this work must be recognized, valued and properly framed, with the necessary protection and dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us be clear: for example, temporary workers are an instrument of flexibility, but they cannot be an instrument of precarious labour relations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was in this context that, still this morning, the Minister of Labour presented to the Permanent Council for Social Consultation our Agenda for Worthy Work, which aims, inter alia, to address many situations of abuse and correct the mechanisms that allow for perpetuating unacceptable precarious situations. Fifth priority: putting the recovery into action. Just one year ago in Brussels, a historic European Council was concluded, in which the 27 Member States agreed to respond to the economic and social crisis through an unprecedented programme of more than the Marshall Plan itself. During the Portuguese Presidency of the Council, we have ensured full operationalization of both the Recovery Plan and the various programmes of the next Multiannual Financial Framework, and now is the time to implement the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but also the PT 2030. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will present to the European Commission, in September, the proposal for a Partnership Agreement and by the end of the year all operational programmes so that we can start up next year, with the implementation of EUR 23.2 billion from Portugal 2030. We thus have a total of EUR 40 billion to help transform the economy and our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the Recovery and Resilience Plan, we were, as we know, the first to present and see our Plan approved. We must now be the best to execute, with all rigour and greater transparency. This is what we have begun to do over the past few weeks, with the launch of competitions and protocols in the field of sustainable mobility, accessible housing, forest reform, energy efficiency, business investment, qualifications and, still this morning, to strengthen, expand and launch new social responses, a partnership protocol was signed with the Mercy, the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), the Mutualities and the Cooperatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The great challenge facing us is to recover from this pandemic crisis while solving the structural problems that have affected the competitiveness of our economy and facing the vulnerabilities of our society. We need to get out of this stronger crisis to move further and faster in convergence with the most developed countries in the European Union. The path to convergence is clear: more qualifications, more innovation, more value-added goods and services ensure greater competitiveness and better employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is precisely because we have this ambition that the priorities that highlight the pandemic are not exhausted or can exhaust the action of the government. The pandemic has not diverted us from the four strategic agendas that guide us and that now gain new momentum with strengthening financial resources so that we can execute them. The first of these agendas, as we recall, focuses on two of the main challenges we face as a society: the demographic challenge and the fight against inequalities, an agenda that places people at the heart of the objectives of the various public policies. The EUR 8600 million we have chosen to devote to this agenda ensures, of course, that we can pursue robustly the policies of inclusion and combating poverty, social action at school and employment policies. This is a very clear reinforcement: for each euro available in the previous Community framework, we now have almost €2, €7 dedicated to social cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Among the various public policies, which may best serve the dual objective of reducing inequalities and facing the demographic challenge is the New Habitat Policy Generation. On the one hand, it is to promote a public housing park for rental at affordable costs, an essential response to the needs of the middle classes, especially the younger ones, contributing to the realization of their own life projects in a full and free way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, it is a matter of ensuring housing for thousands of families that local housing strategies have identified as living in poor conditions. We already have collaboration agreements signed with 71 municipalities and are about 180 municipalities with local housing strategies in preparation. With funding of 100 % to the bottom of the municipalities, with the mobilization of the returned public heritage and with this work of partnership with the municipalities, we can be confident that we will meet the goal that we had set to reallocate 26 000 families until 25 April 2024. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our second agenda focuses on economic growth engines: digitisation, innovation and qualifications. More than 15, EUR 5 billion of resources represent an increase of more than 70 % from the resources available in the period 2014 - 2020. The largest share of our investment is even in modernising our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the additional resources available to us, we will be able to strengthen investment in science and innovation, with an own financial envelope that will exceed EUR 1100 million, adding the amounts collected in centralised management programmes such as Horizon Europe. And we will also strengthen support and incentives for business fabric by continuing our strategy to promote private investment, generating quality jobs. We will strengthen, more robust and ambitiously, the approach between the scientific and technological system and our business fabric, with the Mobilizing Agendas for Innovation. These agendas are an instrument of the reindustrialization of the country that aims to support transformative projects of our productive base, promoting the economic and social value of knowledge and national incorporation. It is a programme that is already under way, with the process of expression of interest open by the end of September. It is also knowledge and innovation that mobilizes the important investments planned in the area of agriculture and the policy of the sea. On the other hand, we choose to triple the resources we devote to the skills and skills of both young people and adults. With this historical reinforcement in the available funds, we will support 30 000 young people in professional courses in emerging areas and in higher education in the fields of science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics. And we will also qualify, requalify and train more than 1 145 000 workers in digital areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are very ambitious goals, and we are aware of this, so they require immediate action. That's why we opened, just a month ago, the applications for the Adult Impulse and the youth impulse STEAM ( Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics) and, within the framework of the Employment + Digital initiative, we now have 42 000 workers in training. The digital transition is, of course, a cross-sectional investment to society as a whole. For example, it is essential to reduce the costs of context and deburocratization, with strong investment in the digitization of the justice system and public administration, or in culture, with investments that will allow to equip more than 230 public libraries and more than 150 cinema and artistic centers, support the translation or editing of more than 5000 literary works, including audiobooks and e-books, or also digitize collections and espolios, maximizing access to the wealth of our cultural heritage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third agenda reinforces the fight against climate change. Here too, we have almost tripled the resources available to the country by providing it with the means to boost green growth and the blue economy and to achieve the climate goals in which Portugal was a pioneer and which the European Climate Law, adopted in our Presidency, extended to the Union as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will continue this objective, of course, through unprecedented investment in sustainable mobility and energy efficiency of buildings. These are, as we all know, the two main sources of CO2 emissions and a true green transition will not be possible without a decisive response in these two dimensions. We have already launched the first competitions for the reinforcement of the metro lines and we have opened the applications for the energy renewal of buildings, which is triggering an extraordinary mobilization of the Portuguese, with more than 13 000 applications already submitted and more than two hundred with the payments already made. Finally, the fourth thematic agenda focuses on territorial cohesion, thus maximizing the competitive potential of our country as a whole, from the Atlantic centrality of the Azores and Madeira to the peninsula centrality of the border regions. With the EUR 6, EUR 6 billion we now devote to this agenda, we will naturally continue our investments in our schools, health units, heritage and forests. But the cohesion of the territory must be based on both physical and digital connectivity. That is why, even last week, we approved the largest purchase of trains from the history of the CP ( Trains of Portugal) and that we ensured the funds necessary for the renewal of our ports. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH laughter.]] This is also why we are fighting in Brussels for the financing of cross-border road links and for the completion of links that are essential for the development and quality of life of people in these regions. And that's why we're committed to fiber optic coverage across the country... [[PSD and CH laughter.]] ... and we also reserved the funding necessary for the progressive coverage of 5G in the territories of low density, source of growth and future development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, we do not sin for lack of strategic vision,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... but we also do not stay in the contemplation of the future. We create the vision that we have in programs, projects and actions, and this is even the time of action. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Cross-border to the emerging priorities of the pandemic and all strategic challenges is an imperative of good governance, which goes, first and foremost, by improving the quality of our democracy. The implementation of the National Strategy for Combating Corruption, the reform of the command structure of the Armed Forces, the separation of police and administrative functions in the relationship of the State with immigrants, the reform of the consular network, the development of the Transparency Portal are a coherent set of reforms that improve our institutions and that are required to achieve a more transparent and efficient state. As much as the important strengthening of resources that Portugal will have will impose on us, we must not only increase responsibility for its proper application but, above all, our duty to achieve the objectives we commit ourselves to, before the new generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year ago, I said here, in this same debate, that the state of the nation was a nation in struggle. from this struggle we are now reemerging ourselves with the pain of mourning for those who have lost on the way and with the scars of the sacrifices that we have all had to do during these months of exception. But let us reemerge ourselves, united, stronger and determined to build a better, more resilient and more prepared country to overcome the challenges of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want to praise the absolutely remarkable work that health professionals have been doing and thank them for their commitment and dedication to fighting this pandemic daily, saving lives, treating patients, investigating pandemic outbreaks or accompanying prophylactic isolations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all witnessed the extraordinary effort that teachers, operational assistants, students and families have made for education to continue, even when schools had to close. We should recognize all those who, in the front line, such as household officials, authorities, social security or the elements of the security forces, have been fundamental to the care of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] An emphatic greeting to our Armed Forces, which demonstrated all their capabilities and most valuable in the performance of all missions entrusted to them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But a very special recognition is due to the companies and the workers who, behind them, have never stopped and ensured that, from the meadow to the plate, we lack nothing; who have faced the heavy sacrifices of forced closure or cuts in maturity; who have proved the resilience, the entrepreneurial spirit, the capacity of initiative of our entrepreneurs; who have ensured the containment of the unemployment rate by 7, 1 %;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which ensured an export value of goods which in the first months of 2021 was even greater than the same period of 2019 ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that they ensured that the first quarter of 2021 had set a new maximum of business investment, at least since 1999, the start of the statistical series. These are the examples that should inspire us! After a particularly demanding year and a half, in which the fight against the pandemic has surpassed everything else, it is time to look forward and work to meet priorities and overcome challenges. The motto of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union was 'time to act', and we act. And this is a design that continues today: it is even time to act! We are all summoned to this task. We are all called to respond to the problems of the Portuguese and leave no one behind. With a sense of responsibility and an imperative of urgency, this is the time to open a new window of hope and take advantage of the unrepeatable opportunities that the next days will bring us. That is our duty, that is my duty, that is the duty we all have to honor! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the first phase of requests for clarification. To that end, Mr Adam Silva has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my question to the Prime Minister by praising the Portuguese, who in these times of anguish and great difficulty have been truly brave and courageous. I speak of the common citizen, of course, who has had great penalties, often with death and great suffering at home, but also of the professionals — those of health, those of the homes, those of the armed forces, those of the security forces, the firemen, all the entities who have collaborated so that Portugal does not go to the bottom in this pandemic situation. [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese, Prime Minister, have been brave, courageous, but the government, despite the efforts of you and the millions who have been here to announce, clearly presents itself at this time as a tired and worn-out government. [[PSD applause.]] But I will tell you: like a government that stands in the air — of course, because of the huge mess we are facing every day — that has no hand to re-emerge the country. Well, Prime Minister: how will the country re-emerge and reach such liberation if the government is not able to do well in times of trial? If it hurts in times of trial, it does not guarantee that it is able to do good in times of liberation. See, for example, in the field of health, Prime Minister. Let it be clear that we, PSD, are founders of the National Health Service, are with the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And this, Mr. Prime Minister, is not an ideological issue, it is a practical matter, it is a question of the practical sense of things. I tell you more, Prime Minister : what the National Health Service has had was a meeting with a lack of investment in the recent past, and even in the old, a lack of mobilization of employees to work well. Even so, we have to give our National Health Service a compliment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u7	Having said this, I add: how will we respond, how will you respond to the millions of Portuguese who do not have a family doctor, when you promised, in 2016, that in 2017, all Portuguese would finally have a family doctor? They don't! [[PSD applause.]] And more than not, today we have less Portuguese with family doctor than we had in 2015. And the lack of a family doctor is symptomatic, because it is the prenunciation of great difficulties and great suffering. What is more, Mr Prime Minister: how are we going to respond to the Portuguese who do not have the present consultations — there will be about 10 million presence consultations — which do not have the surgeries that should have — there will be a number of thousands of surgeries — which do not have the diagnostic and therapeutic tests — there will be about 25 million examinations — and also for cancer patients who do not have support? How are we going to respond to these citizens who have their lives suspended and are obviously in a situation of great tension? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u8	The second question I wanted to ask you is about companies. You, at the end of your speech, praised the companies. You did good! You praised the entrepreneurs. You did good! So, Prime Minister, you have to hit « the boot with the partridge»! V. Ex.a spends time praising, and well, entrepreneurs because entrepreneurs are really fundamental and companies are fundamental to building the future, to give jobs, to give good wages, to support the social systems of the country — they are fundamental — but when the time comes to distribute the money of the "basca", what do we have? We have what? We have a minority distribution for companies, which means for the future, and we have a majority distribution for what is easy for the government, which is to distribute money for public services and the functioning of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u10	That's also good, but you can't forget companies and entrepreneurs! [[PSD applause.]] So, Prime Minister, the question is this: what are we going to say to companies that are indebted, decapitalized, that are in a dynamic of closing doors, collective redundancies, survival, when there is so much money to distribute and it is so easy to help them at this time? Mr. Prime Minister, I conclude: it is not good to praise when, having the means, they are not given to that entity that we are praising. You did that, and you shouldn't have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u11	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u12	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, will perhaps be tired of hearing you say the biggest trick I remember hearing in recent times in the Assembly of the Republic,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which is this strange idea, which leaves everyone open, of the party that was the greatest enemy of the National Health Service come here to say that he is the founder of the National Health Service! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] You voted against the establishment of the National Health Service, you passed a law that was not only passed because the Constitutional Court declared it unconstitutional and re-voted against the Health Bases Act. You are the enemies of the National Health Service! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u13	The Health Bases Act is ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u14	Mr President, I am glad that the holidays are coming, because it deserves rest and needs rest! [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, Mr President, the effort that has been made by the country as a whole, in a solidarity way, to collectively face this pandemic has been absolutely remarkable. Everyone understood very well what the value of solidarity is and at this moment of great difficulty they all managed to "make the guts of the heart" to answer, exceed and exceed all that was possible to do. What does it tell companies that, in the face of the biggest economic crisis we have ever faced, they have now managed to contain unemployment by 7.1%? Do you know how much unemployment was in the previous crisis? It reached 18, 5 %! Now, the maximum has been 8 % and has already decreased to 7, 1 % and in the last three months has fortunately been reducing. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, what does it tell companies that, in the first quarter of this year, they have set a new maximum of business investment? These companies do not lack confidence in the country. These companies have confidence in the country, in their ability to produce more goods, more services, can be more competitive and continue to grow exports. What does it tell companies that, even this year and in the face of this crisis, they have again increased the export of goods and have already exported more this year than in the same period of 2019? Yes, this has been the effort that companies have made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But that is also why we have not made every effort to support companies: in the maintenance of employment, in the granting of credit, in the granting of conditions to be able to respond. The total support granted to companies since the beginning of this crisis, which has been lost direct support, was EUR 5428 million — EUR 5428 million, which adds EUR 12 694 million of credit lines, and some of them are not necessarily repayable. And when you look at the Recovery and Resilience Plan, you do not deceive companies by saying that the bulk of the investment is not addressed to companies. Mr Deputy, of course EUR 11 billion is addressed to companies. When a municipality builds housing to relocate a needy family, who will build this housing? Is it the municipality or is it a company that will carry out this undertaking? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, who is going to receive direct support for decarbonisation, for digital transition, for mobilization alliances, and finally for opening up the economy but businesses? It is EUR 5000 million of direct support exclusively for companies in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. In addition, Mr President, companies will also be the major beneficiaries of the investments which the State will indirectly make in reducing the costs of context — for example in economic justice — or in the formation of human resources. The formation of human resources, of course, benefits, firstly, the trainer himself, but indirectly benefits all the business fabric, which will have better human capital to help improve the productivity of companies. This is what companies will actually have in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr President, I recommend that you also arrange a little time to read the Recovery and Resilience Plan and then, when you come back in September, you will know what you are talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u15	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u16	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, while we are debating the state of the nation, there are three conclusions that we must draw today. The first is indeed extraordinary, because it is about the state of opposition in this state of the Nation. And the state of opposition, particularly the PSD, is not only the state of denial as the state of tiredness and with some lack of memory—...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u18	... and this lack of memory is, of course, evident in Mr Adam Silva. [[PSD protests.]] In fact, it is extraordinary for you to say that it was the PSD that created the National Health Service, because this is easy to forget through our laps. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS is here very honestly, because he knows that he has created the National Health Service. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] Mr President, it is not worth « crying crocodile tears » on the National Health Service. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a chart on the National Health Service.]] The result of your governance on the National Health Service was always cutting, always cutting. However, since the PS is government, including in the pandemic, it has always been increasing in the National Health Service. This is how the National Health Service is honored and not to “cry crocodile tears”! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But the zigzag in which the PSD is running in this pandemic is absolutely remarkable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u19	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u20	I would like to explain to you, Mr Commissioner: on Monday, they want Christmas to be without restrictions; on Tuesday, they want Christmas to be restricted; on Wednesday, 'it is better to open the borders'; on Thursday, 'we close the borders'; on Friday, 'we vote against the State budget, which gives everyone everything! On Saturday, "we ask for more support for everyone" and on Sunday...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u21	It's Lord's Day! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u22	No, on Sunday they don't rest, pray for the devil to appear and this government falls! This is all that interests the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Member States are really not interested in the PSD, because the PSD celebrated 14 % of the unemployment rate in Portugal with a pump and circumstances. Today, we have 7 %, and not a word, not a word! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. Members in 2014 praised the economic growth of 1 % — 1 %, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a 4 % forecast of economic growth. We are now making our economy stand, and not a word from the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen but to say that "it's all wrong, the government is tired"! Well, look, the second conclusion that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group can draw from this debate on the state of the nation is that of those who know the country and who invite the Members. Members to meet the country, from north to south and to islands, and to visit higher education institutions, visit companies, our business fabric and realize that, Prime Minister, this parliamentary group is associated with all the recognitions and thanks it has made, but adds: to a whole country that has been able to reinvent itself, resist, mobilize itself and the Portuguese, who were not afraid and are fighting this crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the State of the Nation, the conclusion is that the State has not failed. The state did not fail when it secured three million jobs with the Layoff measures, while you destroyed jobs in the previous crisis. The state did not fail when it handed over to companies, so that they would resist in an unprecedented record time more than 11 billion support for our business fabric.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u24	The State did not fail when it created for the people who needed it most, even for those who had never discounted for social security, a new social benefit, because there are minimums of dignity that need to be held at all times. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The state did not fail when in Europe it fought for a Recovery and Resilience Plan, while you fought to cut 600 million pensions to Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is the country all right? No, he's not! But there is one thing we know: no one wanted this crisis, no government member caused this crisis, but everyone, 24 hours a day, worked to answer the Portuguese, their difficulties and to give them the necessary answers... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to maintain income, to keep jobs, to keep our business fabric working, so it is also due to be a word of thanks to the government for all that you have done for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u25	It is that, if it is not the Socialist Party's bench, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen are distracted, they won't, as we shall imagine. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Adam Silva talks about the future, but there he is, he is to the ziguezags, he does not know what future he wants. For we know what the future is, Mr President — and this is the third conclusion of this debate on the state of the nation : it is the one we started in 2015. And to respond to this crisis, it was necessary, Prime Minister, to make the way that we all made, led by you, from 2015 onwards. It was therefore possible to invest in public services. That is why it was possible to improve our economy. No one remembers, but when this pandemic robbed us all in an absolutely dramatic way, we had the best ever deficit in history, we had budget surpluses, we had economic growth and we were creating more jobs. [[PSD protests.]] That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this parliamentary group is next to the government in what needs to be done, i.e. responding to the emergency and continuing what we started in 2015 and which we reaffirmed and the Portuguese trusted in 2019: better social justice, more employment, better income, better living conditions for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u26	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u27	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, there is an enormous difficulty with which, of course, the benches to the right of the Socialist Party face this crisis. They have a recipe: in the face of crisis, austerity. When there is a crisis and there is no austerity, they say: « Here the devil comes! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” When there's a crisis, there's no austerity and there's no devil coming, they don't know what they're going to say! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, we have now heard Mr Adam Silva criticising the Recovery and Resilience Plan. All of you. Members recall that, at the initiative of the Government, we came here to this House, in September last year, to promote a parliamentary debate on the Recovery and Resilience Plan that we were building under the inspiration of the Agenda for the Decade, designed by Prof. Costa Silva and in active dialogue with the municipalities, with the social partners, with civil society. We have come to this House to debate it. What did the PSD say about the Recovery and Resilience Plan? Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u28	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u29	He said "zero"! What did the PSD say about relevant in this parliamentary debate? He said it was against the increase in national minimum wage, because the national minimum wage would destroy businesses and promote unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you have now said: "It is necessary to move into labour law for what? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it not clear to all that one of the most obvious social shocks that this pandemic has set the fire was the capcious ways in which precarious situations in working relationships are multiplied? Can we pretend we don't see? Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Can we stop acting? We have to act! How does the PSD talk about the National Health and Investment Service? Let's see. throughout the previous legislature, we increased the budget of the National Health Service by 1400 million euros, as much as in your legislature had cut. In the first year of this legislature, even before the pandemic, we did the greatest reinforcement of the initial allocation of the National Health Service. With the pandemic, we presented here the first Supplementary Budget for a second strengthening of the budget of the National Health Service and this year we again have the largest initial allocation of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, honourable Member, I am not talking about millions, in abstract. The millions translate into concrete realities. That is, we increased by 24% the number of health professionals in the SNS, from 2015 to May this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Compared to the end of PSD / CDS governance, we currently have more 5820 doctors, plus 10 734 nurses, plus 1996 superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. This is the reality! It hurts a lot, but it's true, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. That's right! It's life! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have continued and, moreover, we will continue to strengthen investment in the National Health Service, because we know it is essential. We started this pandemic crisis being the country with the lowest number of intensive care beds, depending on the population. At the time we had 431 multivalent beds of level III. The investment that has been made since then already allows us to have 779. We have another 110, which we can mobilise, level II, and we still have 89, which are currently in operation because we have set the goal - and we are going to fulfil! — to leave Europe's tail to keep in line with the European Union's average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we live, what matters is not to discuss whether the glass is half full or whether the glass is half empty. right now, what's interesting to discuss, what really matters to the Portuguese is how we're going to fill the cup, because the cup has to be full, because that's what is necessary to respond to the needs of health professionals,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... of patients, of the general population, of enterprises and workers. Let's fill the glass there! That's what interests the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u30	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u31	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u32	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u33	Is it about the conduct of the work, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u34	Yes, Mr. President. It is only to ask you to send Mr. Prime Minister our contributions to the PRR. I know you only have 119 pages, much less than the original, but these are our contributions. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, I just need to ask Mr. Prime Minister whether he wants dedication or not, don't I? With dedication? Oh, my God! So, go with dedication.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u35	Mr President, the PSD has a lot of time to intervene without having to use the Bureau's inquiries to make political interventions. The honourable Member has 28 minutes and 47 seconds to clarify these and other questions. You now have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins, from the Left Block, to request clarification from Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, I think we should not waste much time discussing it with the right. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u37	The right had a project for the country of privatization of the National Health and Social Security Service, to end public services, which life has shown to be fundamental, with working rights that people need and, indeed, after life to demonstrate that the right has no project for any crisis, the right has not yet met, says one thing and its opposite, is in degradation and, therefore, about the state of the Nation what we have to discuss are solutions. So, as tempting as it is to be hit on the right, we go to solutions and to the country program. Mr. Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to you and there are three issues you spoke about in the intervention I wanted to address, because I am concerned. Mr. Prime Minister said that in the Recovery and Resilience Program he would make the investments that were already planned in the National Health Service before the pandemic, particularly for mental health, for oral health and for the internalization of complementary means of diagnosis. As you know, these are areas that we have long discussed and for which there was already agreement for investment long before the pandemic and what we see is that much of this investment, which was already planned, now goes to the PRR. That is, instead of having more investment, we shift it from place to place and do not strengthen the SNS, as he needed. Mr. Prime Minister also said that he would now do the process of full dedication, which is in the Government Programme, which has already been in State budgets, in particular for the CRIs (integrated responsibility centres ), and which has never moved forward. Mr. Prime Minister, there are actually contracts for the SNS, but this does not hide the fact that more experienced professionals are wanting to leave the National Health Service. In such a way, they asked Mr. President of the Republic to ensure that there was a standard during the state of emergency to ban the National Health Service professionals from saying goodbye. But this rule has ended many, as you know, and, among other things, it has increased the number of users without a family doctor. Therefore, issues related to SNS careers that set professionals are already late and cannot continue to be postponed. They were already in State Budget, they should have moved forward. Leave them now by 2023 or when it is, in fact, not to do what was in the Government Programme, because the legislature does not end up without these careers being implemented. On health, there is another issue, which is the fact that we come here to reiterate the commitment of more contracts for the National Health Service, and still well. But the number that the government has repeated, debate after debate — today too — is exactly the same number of more professionals for the SNS that we had already identified as necessary before the pandemic. This means that the government wants to end the pandemic period with the number of professionals in the SNS that we knew was necessary for the country before we knew that the pandemic was coming. And we know that, with the pandemic, not only do we have exhausted professionals, as we do not have accumulated COVID care, which have to be provided, as we have — and this is an international reality that is already long proven — a lot of care for the COVID patients, with long-term COVID and with the sequels that remain throughout life. So we know that the SNS will need more than we thought. That is why what the Government is proposing now is not enough. What the government says is that it will now begin to execute what was planned before the pandemic, when the SNS is exhausted. I know that health professionals perform miracles every day, but they need conditions to work and this postponement, this shift from investment to investment is not what the SNS needs right now, nor is it the way to implement the Health Bases Act or the SNS Statute, which the Health Bases Act provides. Also in relation to work, I was worried about what brought us here. We note that Mr Prime Minister today, very emphatically, said—and told the right-wing sides—that it is really necessary to change labour law. Good! But then why have we been with the laws of the troika for so many years? Actually, it was the Socialist Party that didn't want to change. I don't know how many times the Left Block has already proposed that! Is that what you're talking about? More: come now to say that the temporary work regime will be changed, when it was in the report that was made between the Bloc, the government and the PS and did not advance because the government did not want, the government let everything die in social consultation, come to say that now it is, now it is going to the concert... When? When the workers of the Altice, Santander, of the BCP have already been replaced by outsourcing? Is that where we're going? It's too late, Prime Minister! It can't be! It has to be now, to hold the job! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a very specific question. We warned that the State budget did not respond, with social support, to whom it needed. At the time, the Government said that the support it had created, that special support for the reduction of activity would reach 250 000 people. We know that in the first quarter half of what the government had planned, finally... what the Block said, and that unfortunately it has been confirmed, was that of the various inadequacies, one of them was that of the people with social unemployment benefit. It was 22 000 people who, in December last year, were left with nothing and — as you know, it will be remembered — gathered, made a petition, gave voice to their problems. The Block also supported this path and, in fact, the government ended up giving in and extending the support these people had for another six months, but within that support to reduce activity. It happens that for those who lost the social unemployment allowance in December and had this support for six months, this support ends now. In January, they don't have it anymore. The government can well say that these people — who, in the middle of a fourth pandemic strike, will hardly find work, as we all know — can apply for support for the reduction of activity, but will apply for a condition of resources that will exclude a large part of the beneficiaries and a benefit that, as it is differential, in many cases, will not reach more than €50. Therefore, the question I ask you is whether the government will not now want us on a fourth pandemic strike, to extend this support, at least by the end of the year, so as not to leave these people without anything for months, as happened at the beginning of the year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u38	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u39	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, thank you very much. Firstly, it is not about transferring from one side to the other. We had EUR 19 million, for example, in mental health, in the Budget and what we are adding, in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, is more EUR 85 million. Therefore, it is no longer the same, it is to add and strengthen, to allow to go further and faster than what was planned. As far as full dedication is concerned, we will now move forward, within the framework of the Statute of the National Health Service, which we are drawing up. Thirdly, in relation to the number of professionals, precisely because we know that professionals are needed, those contracts that have been precarious can become linked, through the competitions that are already open and that allow the integration of all of them. Therefore, we are fulfilling what is established in the State budget, i.e. the hiring of 4366 professionals only this year. As far as work is concerned, no, it is now not the concern. We followed a process, a green book was presented, there was a debate and now the time for us to move forward. That is what the Minister today has done at the Permanent Council for Social Consultation, and we will move forward, because it is necessary to legislate now. Finally, with regard to the extraordinary support for the reduction of the activity, Mrs Deputy, as recalled when the Budget was voted, no one expected to have a new closure of the activities in January. When that happened, we rejected all the previous instruments that had, however, disappeared. Therefore, to all those who have resorted to extraordinary support, we must add the people who have resorted to the support that they have ceased to exist and who have once again existed. So we not only respond to the 250 000 people the Left Block spoke about, but to 270 000, who have been and are being supported through these mechanisms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These mechanisms are precisely designed to gradually allow protection to be ensured permanently. Those who lose unemployment benefit have access to social unemployment benefit; those who lose social unemployment benefit have access to extraordinary support and, at the end of these six months of extraordinary support, can continue in extraordinary support, under resource conditions, and so on. But truly, the most effective measure we can take is even the work support measure. The Banco de Portugal report is very clear: thanks to the measures we have taken and, in particular, to the simplified layoff, which today pays 100 % of the workers' salary, we avoid that unemployment was twice as much as what it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u41	Today, fortunately, economic dynamics have been reducing unemployment and, in the last three months, it has been reducing. Only last month, 24 000 people left unemployment and returned to activity. What does that mean? Oh, my God! It means that we must continue to build confidence in society, continue to build confidence in investment, continue to build confidence in business activity and its ability to maintain and create jobs. That's the battle we have and we have to win. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u42	I call on the CFP Parliamentary Group, through Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u43	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in the country we are debating today, they conjugate, together, old and new problems, which mark the current state of the nation. The evolution of the country's situation and the social and labour situation confirm that it is necessary to break with the right-wing policy and to take courage the alternative policy that ensures national progress and development. The causes of the problems we face are not today, but for many years. There is no falsification that can hide that weaknesses and vulnerabilities, that chronic structural deficits, particularly productive ones, that economic stagnation and that the marked social and regional inequalities are problems created and aggravated by decades of right-wing policy, contrary to national interests. These problems are now further compounded by the impact of the epidemic and by the exploitation it is making of the great economic and financial interests, using it as a pretext for attacking wages, degrading hours, precarious working relationships and attacking workers' rights. We live in a situation in which a few people of habit, using and abusing the epidemic, continue to gain, amassing profits and dividends, taking advantage of keen public resources, while most of them lose, in particular, the living, working and health conditions. These few who win the crisis want to counter the value of wages to the maintenance of employment, to justify the perpetuation of the low wages that they exerted in the country. The development of the country, the creation of employment, the raising of the productive profile and the response to the economic crisis require an increase in the wages of all employees in the private sector and the Public Administration and an increase in the national minimum wage to €850. We therefore ask: will the Government take measures to promote a policy of general valorising wages, careers and professions, with a strong commitment to growth and dynamisation of the economy and job creation? Or will you follow the opinions of those who bet on freezing and devaluation of wages to accentuate poverty, injustice, inequality and the country's sinking? How will the government respond to the risk allowance of security forces professionals and their careers and other sectors, such as health professionals? Will the government finally put an end to the situation which condemns more than one million workers to survive under permanent precarious conditions, with fewer rights and less pay, by giving their final vote support to the PCP bill that aims to put an end to this social scourge? Mr Prime Minister, can you now ensure the commitment to the workers who are in this situation? With regard to working hours, will the Government continue to close its eyes to the deregulation of the working hours that are under way, reaching the life and health of workers? Will the government accept the increase in working times and rhythms, in the wake of historical developments, or will it give it due combat, promoting the reduction of working hours to 35 hours for all workers? Mr Prime Minister, worrying in the current situation of the country, is also the threat of dismissal and loss of employment, particularly with the bulk of collective dismissal processes involving large economic and financial groups, without economic justification. In almost all areas and sectors of activity, with particular evidence in Galp, Altice and the bank, the threat of dismissal or job loss works as an instrument of blackmail on workers, so they can desist from their rights. There is blackmail, too, at Groundforce, with the delay in payment of wages. blackmail cannot be tolerated with collective redundancies or other abuses of the rights currently under way in the country and the silence of the Government in relation to these processes of job destruction is not acceptable. What is the government going to do to stop the situation? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I wanted to talk about the problem of banking moratoriums, in view of its abrupt end, already in September, without ensuring the normality of economic activity, and the real danger of thousands of households with housing credits and thousands of companies using bank credit to go into non-compliance. Our proposal for an extension of moratoriums is well known and the situation justifies it, but to date what has come to the public from the Government does not show a willingness to solve the problem. Valuing work and workers, supporting productive sectors and national production, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, are some of the options to be made for the patriotic and left-wing policy that the country needs to get out of the situation in which it is located. But say, Prime Minister, what options will the government make? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u44	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u45	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, thank you very much. I believe that today, at this distance, we can well compare the response we have given to this crisis, particularly with the State budget for this year, with the answers that the right has given to the previous crisis. When, in the previous crisis, 18, 5 % were reached at the unemployment rate and now we have managed to contain the unemployment rate in 7, 1 %, we have a very important difference. When the indicators on income show that, thanks to the social measures that have been adopted, the total available income of the Portuguese did not have a breakdown during this crisis, this is something very relevant. Therefore, when he asks whether our wage policy is to freeze, he well knows not, because it was not already last year, but it was to increase the national minimum wage, because it is necessary to continue the development of the incomes of all those who work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way, we are negotiating, with trade union structures and with the Association of Guard Professionals, the theme of the risk allowance of security forces. Even today, there was a meeting in which the Government presented a proposal and a new one is marked, which will include not only the debate on the risk subsidy, but also the appreciation of the first career entry positions, which is very relevant to a central issue which it has referred to, which has to do with the overall valuation of wages. With regard to precariousness, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party has made possible the diploma presented by the CFP, so that we can, precisely in the field of specialty, do a work between the proposed law that the Government will present and the draft law that the CFP has submitted, in order to have a legal regime that ensures and guarantees dignity at work for all those who work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the Agenda for Worthy Work, we have not ignored the subject of timetables and, in particular, we have dealt with it from the point of view of reconciling personal, family and professional life. Finally, regarding the moratoriums, this is a subject that we follow very closely and very carefully. We note that, of the 10 000 situations of moratoriums which were, however, exceeded, 8000 were related to families. We already have a legal framework that responds to the situation of companies and we will continue to monitor the situation of families, but so far the indication that we have is that there is no need for us to do more than what has been done and that, between creditors and debtors, solutions have been found that ensure solvency and avoid asphyxiation of whoever it is. One thing I can assure you: we will take the measures necessary to keep no one back in this crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u46	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you have the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I have three questions to ask you and the first one is telegraph. We know that the PS, with the help of the CFP, also precious, blocked the coming of Minister Eduardo Cabrita to Parliament yesterday to provide clarification. The CDS did not give up and obtained the hearing of the Inspectorate General of the Internal Administration. However, there is a clarification that Mr. Prime Minister has to make today and that is related to the following: on May 10, this year, at 22 hours and 30 minutes, his Ministry of Internal Administration sent a dispatch to authorize the celebrations of the winner of the football league, to a club, with thousands and thousands of people, giant screen and courting up to Marquis, in the hours or days following.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u48	Nice question for the debate of the state of the nation! That's the theme!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u49	This authorisation was given despite several opinions against it. The question I have to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, is it direct and telegraphic and asks you to answer either "yes" or "no": did you sign this order to your wake and without your knowledge or signed this order with your knowledge? Did the Minister sign as you understood that he should sign or sign in compliance with your instructions? If you signed the order in compliance with the direct instructions of the Prime Minister, that explains why the Minister is still Minister today, in the face of the country's perplexity. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, it is also very direct the question about the House of Douro. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] In 2019, management here in Parliament decided to reverse a reform of the former government and to do what they call reinstitutionalization of the House of Douro. That is, in practice, they decided to make the House of the Douro return to the corporate state regime with the high patronage of the Portuguese Communist Party. Members of the CDS-PP and PSD requested the constitutionality of this legislation to be monitored. The Constitutional Court, last week, came to say that this legislation which was passed here was manifestly unconstitutional and that it violated the principle of freedom of association. In other words, by translating, what the Constitutional Court says is that if the House of Douro has the function of representing the interests of the winegrowers of the demarcated region of Douro, then who best defend these interests in the association are the winegrowers themselves and not the rulers or the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is called this, Prime Minister, freedom of association and that is what the Constitutional Court has come to say. Another concrete question I leave to you, Prime Minister... [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] Respect the Constitutional Court, Member of Parliament, will do well for you! Mr. Prime Minister, your Minister for Agriculture has come to say, making an absolute death letter of this Constitutional Court judgment, that plans, in the third quarter of this year, to continue what she calls the reinstitutionalization of the House of Douro, which is exactly what the Constitutional Court says is unconstitutional and cannot continue. So what I ask is whether you will explain to your Minister of Agriculture that you cannot make unconstitutional decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u51	Thirdly, and on the so-called PRR, what Mr. Prime Minister here presented — which is basically the idea that the Government has for the PRR — was the image of the government with the book of checks in hand to pass checks to various sectors of the Public Administration. I record the choices here and listen carefully to it. What he said was that only 30 % of this PRR goes to the companies, the other side goes to the public sector. But Mr Prime Minister says: « No, no, but also goes to companies, because then the public sector, in the application of these funds, will hire companies». It is precisely this fundamental choice that I find critical, Prime Minister, because what you are saying is that, in fact, the money goes to the companies, but instead of going to the companies of the dynamic sectors, of the sectors competing on the market, of the exporting sectors, it goes to public procurement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u52	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u53	... goes to companies that know how to move well in the corridors of the state and in public procurement. It's a deeply wrong choice, Prime Minister, because it's a deeply clientish view...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u54	Client? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u55	... of the economy and of what economic development must be, but which, in fact, is a tradition both in Portugal and in the Socialist Party. This choice not to break with this customer tradition is a choice that seems deeply wrong to me and I would like to know why you did it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u56	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u57	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I am going to be absolutely telegraphic. First question: no, I didn't know the office. No, I didn't give any instructions for the office. Secondly, this diploma did not result from a government initiative, it resulted from a parliamentary initiative, and therefore the government respects Parliament's initiatives. Thirdly, Mrs Deputy, in fact, would be so shot, so shot, so shot, so shot, that this view of these PRR companies would not happen to me either. So, in fact, that's not what's in the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u58	I call on the PAN Parliamentary Group to request clarification from Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, we have listened carefully to Mr Prime Minister, and if there is anything that actually causes us confusion today, it is not what Mr Prime Minister has moved forward, but what he has not mentioned. It is that worse than we have negationism is to put your head in the sand and make sure that there are no problems. of the priorities which Mr Prime Minister has listed some have clearly been left out. For example, the democratic crisis is one of them, and the climate crisis has also been manifestly insufficient in its words. I would like to begin precisely because of the difficulties of this socio-economic crisis. Mr. Prime Minister, we have been able to invoke the labour law for everything that might justify blocking social support. Portugal now has a unique opportunity, which cannot waste, to use the European funds for the economic recovery of the country, which means that we bet and invest in the areas that are effectively essential and not more so. If, in fact, the capitulations up here were the new austerity, the labor law, by the way, replaced them, also becoming a form of austerity and blocking social support for those who need it most. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, there is something in your speech that we cannot help but emphasize: that in the midst of this crisis, from a social point of view, we had gender equality to stay behind. More than 80% of social support was required by women and the fight against domestic violence, among many other forms of violence, must be a priority for the country and cannot be completely forgotten. There are also labour responsibilities and the return of activity, in a sustainable and responsible manner, which means that the government gives progressive answers and that gradually does not drop the State support. This cannot actually be left behind. I therefore ask you a very clear question: how do you intend to circumvent the Constitutional Court's declaration of unconstitutionality in order to ensure that, indeed, there are support that has to be given to whom most needs? With regard to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, Prime Minister, today we have about two million people in Portugal living in energy poverty. We continue to have people who have no roofs and people living in absolutely outraged living conditions. But to kick this responsibility merely for the sphere of municipal chambers cannot be the response that the Government has to give to the country. Therefore, we also need to know what the debate you want to do, in addition to the measures you have already announced, in addition to the plans and programmes that kick, either by 2023 or 2024, these answers that are absolutely emerging. When can we actually have a public building and a plan to, as soon as possible, not only take the homeless people out of the street, but also for middle-level families or even those who have become impoverished, and so that at this time in our country more than 400 000 unemployed are able to have, in fact, access to housing, employment and other matters of dignity for their lives? We have had one of the most relevant crises this year in terms of respect for human rights and we have not heard a word, especially in this debate of the state of the nation. Sadly, the death of Ihor Homeniuk was a stain for our country. Recently Russiagate called into question, with the data transmitted to Russia, the privacy of activists and their security. More recently it was known about the case of women activists who were forced to take a break in order to be reviewed by the criminal police. These are absolutely shocking cases and we would like to see, Mr Prime Minister, what your Government will do to avoid such unfortunate cases that undermine the role that Portugal has played in the defence of human rights. What will be done in this measure? With regard to the crisis of our time, the climate crisis, Prime Minister, we cannot forget that our rulers — and here I appeal to you directly — are perhaps the last electors who actually have the opportunity to fight the point of non-return. Climate change is not a mirage of the future, it is a reality of the present. Recent cases, such as the full cases this week in Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, also in Switzerland, in the middle of summer, causing the death of at least 200 people and the disappearance of so many others, are not a reality that could be alien to Portugal. More in Canada, at the beginning of this month, 213 fires were activated, as a result of the recording of abnormal temperatures around 50 o. This where the average daily temperatures were above 20 o. At least one small Canadian village was entirely consumed by flames. Mr. Prime Minister, this phenomenon of extreme fires has also marked our country and so many lives have been lost. Unfortunately they are not phenomena other than Portugal. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, in the priorities which you have just mentioned, what we are going to do to fight once and for all in an effective way the fires. How are we going to do forest management, which has taken so long? I also ask you about the risk map, which was absolutely essential for Portugal to be able to combat climate change as well. What are we going to do to combat the risk of extreme drought in the country that, at the moment, has already reached, for example, the Mira area? What are we going to do to combat the erosion of the coastal shoreline, where today it is allowed to be built, but what should be protected zone? Mr. Prime Minister, climate change is happening and its effect may be devastating to all populations. And this is also not consistent with the permission to build airports—again—in sensitive areas that will be flooded. It also does not comply with the permission of the total disorder of the protected landscape. Therefore, Prime Minister, since we have not had answers from your ministers, what we hope is that today you can give us a full answer to these concerns. Finally, I would also like to ask you a question about animal protection. We have, in fact, taken effective steps to ensure that pets pass through guardianship, but we have, from north to south, animals, such as equidae or animals used for production purposes, abused and abandoned, and this type of behaviour is completely impunity. We need to know when we will have an answer to the protection of all animals, and not just some, in our country. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u60	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will excuse me, but with this motion for questions I will have to focus on what I thought was the central theme of your speech and what it has to do with the fight against climate change. Portugal was the first country in the world at the Conference of the Parties of Marrakesh, in 2016, to assume the commitment of carbon neutrality in 2050. It was precisely in the Portuguese Presidency that we approved the European Climate Law which extends to the whole of the European Union this commitment which Portugal had already taken. The European Commission, in its report, considers that Portugal is the one of all the countries of the Union, which has better conditions for achieving these goals. And this does not happen by chance, because, despite all the adverse scenarios that we face, at risk of drought, coastal erosion, forest fires, we actually act proactively to have the most sustained energy in renewable sources and to extend energy efficiency. In the Recovery and Resilience Plan we tripled, along with Portugal 2030, the resources involved in combating climate change. And we do this in particular in forestry policy. Still this week we had the signature, not with a state department, but with several municipalities and with several forest producer organizations, of the first 47 protocols for integrated landscape management areas. This is because the fundamental condition for the protection of the forest is even to undertake the structural reform of this forest and to ensure its structural protection. That's what we've been doing, and that's what we're going to do. Also in the area of animal welfare, not only has the change of guardianship been made, as is institutionalized the animal provider, who is already in office. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u62	It's time for DOS Greens. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, when we debate the state of the nation the pandemic still concerns us, so the Greens can not fail to refer to some elements that they consider to be very relevant. One of these elements has to do with strengthening measures of the National Health Service, which has been subject to extraordinary pressure in recent months. The National Health Service responded to an epidemic of dimensions and with incalculable consequences. We recognize that, without the SNS and without the efforts of its professionals, the population would be exposed to far more serious consequences. But we must also recognise that not everything went well and that the de-investment of decades to which the right-wing policy condemned the SNS was nude. The government moves numbers to demonstrate successes, but patients who continue to have consultations by telephone, who have seen their operations postponed or who are waiting months for a specialist consultation are not treated with these numbers, as you will agree. ophthalmologists, cardiologists, psychologists are needed because they are missing in the SNS. And by the way, the elderly need answers. After fear and isolation have taken away their physical and mental energies, they still have no solutions for a dignified old age. The only solution remains a long waiting list. And the government can't even say it has no means, because they're in the State budget! So, Prime Minister, what we ask you is simple: when will the population feel, in health care, the reinforcement that is needed? When you will have doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and simple operational assistants, which is urgent to hire, in order not only to restore those who come out how to extend the number of professionals. When do health centers stop making phone calls? When does the number of users without a family doctor decrease? When does a serious dialogue begin with the representatives of the workers, to advance with improvements in their careers and wages? It is that we agree, recognitions and greetings do not pay accounts, as it will also agree. It is not possible to continue asking professionals to leave their family life, their individual projects, the right to rest to vaccinate Portuguese, from Monday to Sunday, and to continue without guaranteeing them a stable bond. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to environmental protection, does he not believe that we are taking steps in this period? It is sufficient to look at the waste, particularly of disposable masks everywhere, or at the increasingly growing option of the use of transport itself, as a result not only of the fear that has been propagated, but also of the brutal reduction of supply. With the excuse of the need for speed in new investments, will we not feed new and old environmental problems? I give you an example: is Mr Prime Minister in a position to ensure that part of the CAP (common agricultural policy) money will not be appropriated by the superintensive olive, or by the new avocado plantations, or, who knows, by large greenhouses, for whom will be prepared eco-regimes that sit them not a glove? Another example: may the Prime Minister ensure that the mining options in the country, or investment in renewable energy, on the pretext of the so-called 'green and ecological transition', will not call into question protected areas such as agricultural reserves, ecological reserves or areas classified as world agricultural heritage, such as Barroso?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u64	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u65	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, as you know, the reform of the CAP was one of the most difficult issues of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, but it had two fundamental changes. For the first time, the social dimension of the CAP was assumed and, secondly, the CAP was compatible with the option of green transition to face climate change. As regards the recovery of delays, a series of incentives for the recovery of present consultations was published in February, and the indications are that since then there has been an increase of 74, 9% of nursing consultations and 41, 4% of other consultations. With regard to hospitals, there has also been this increase in consultations, i.e. 17% more hospital consultations and 36% more surgical interventions, and a general recovery of non-emergency surgeries. And, especially in primary health care, we have found that the non-emergency consultations have already recovered by 27, 1 %. That is, all the indicators mean that we are recovering what was delayed during the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u66	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, it is a pity that a Prime Minister will come to this House today with all the television channels to transmit this debate, say that it is all right in this country and that the leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will come to slap the Prime Minister and say "We give our hands, we are the happiest in the world". The country, out there, must be amazed at what you're seeing in here! What Mr. Prime Minister was supposed to be doing here was apologizing to the Portuguese. I should apologize for 7, 2 % unemployment, 60 % of the companies have failed over the last three months, two thirds of the companies have not been able to pay costs and — do not look at the side, Mr Prime Minister! — one fifth of the companies, according to the last report, were unable to pay wages. Nice country we present out there! What the Prime Minister should be saying was this: "Excuse us Portuguese, I have failed in my mission to protect you and protect the economy." Mr Prime Minister, 60 % of the companies were unable to obtain the support that their economy minister promised they would have, and says the report that was overbureaucracy. "Sorry Portuguese, because I failed in my mission to protect you and protect the economy" — that is what the Prime Minister should be saying today. There, beside him, is the Minister of Internal Administration, who is so off the bench that he is almost on the stairs, waiting for him to be taken away or someone to take his place. [[Protests of PS Members.]] This is a minister who promised risk subsidies to the police, but what did he give them? He gave them 80 € in 14 months! After a 20-year struggle, he gave 80 € of risk allowance to our security forces, these security forces that this Prime Minister had here today the courage to come to praise. They are men and women who fight all over the country to manage a pandemic, and what they receive is 80 €, for 14 months. And this minister is still here, on my left side, looking at me. It is truly a shame the state in which the Nation is! And I do not know whether this is the state of the opposition or not, but Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes should not be concerned about the state of the opposition, she should be concerned, yes, about the state to which the government of her party led this country. With regard to what happened in Reg nels de Monsaraz, once again we had a situation for which Mr. Prime Minister insists on looking to the side: the Gypsy community living above and outside the rule of law and doing what, in all areas of the country, continues to be faced with a feeling of impunity, what the country is witnessing, but insists on not seeing. There we had abandoned men to their fate and an internal administration minister who only met with the local authority after I myself went to speak to the GNR station, where there were two men in a position to react to hundreds of people, in an authority with a population of thousands. Mr. Prime Minister, can you tell the Portuguese today that there is a problem with the Gypsy community, not only in Alentejo and Ribatejo, as in many other places in the country, or will you keep looking to the side? But this Minister of Internal Administration who is here today also deserves a look at this debate on the state of the nation. It is that, from the traffic of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), which made Portugal in the asylum of mercy throughout Europe, passing through the car that circulated to 100, 200 or 300 km/h on the highway, until the dismantling of support for our security forces, I think, Prime Minister, who, polling behind polling, study after study, everyone asks you that this man who is here in front of me and on my left stop being Minister of Internal Administration. I know you do well, because while you attack your Minister of Internal Administration or while you attack your Minister of Justice, Mr. Prime Minister runs like a paraphernalia to the attacks that he has to be targeted in this government. No, Mr. Prime Minister, the state of the nation is not fabulous. And the Prime Minister who was an autocratic... [[Rice from the Prime Minister and PS Members.]] I don't know if the Portuguese out there are laughing so much. I do not know, but it was good for you to see Mr. Prime Minister laughing in a debate about the state of the nation when the country is facing a Europe which, above all, continues to do so more. Mr. Prime Minister, today is the day to answer. It has here the chance and the opportunity to do: it will or will not apologize for the regrettable state to which, in recent months, it has led Portugal, which, under its management, has passed from the best to the worst, from the second best to the third worst, of the best in the vaccine to the worst in the vaccine, and was the worst in the restrictions, with the greatest tackling in all of them. Apologize to the Portuguese! That is what I advise you to do in this debate on the state of the nation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u69	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I know that you would prefer us to handle this crisis as the PSD managed the previous one and when you were a PSD activist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But 'unfortunately' is not how we are managing this crisis today. If there's anyone here who has to apologize, it's you, for the absolute ignorance of what you say. But we only fully understand this ignorance at that truly delusional moment when you imagined a para-ray to flee! ...I've never seen a lightning bolts run away! But as you have already seen, we can well know what your adherence to reality is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as security is concerned, I meant only two or three things. First, in 2015, Portugal was classified as 11. the safest country in the world. Today, fortunately, Portugal is considered 4. the safest country in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] of the last three years, the Annual Report on Internal Security (RASI ) last year has been the best since 1989 and, in the series of the last five, the best ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u70	We were home!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u71	Thirdly, Mr President, in the last three years, the reduction in the area of fire and fire is the largest in the last decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u72	I ask Mr. André Ventura to put the mask back on. To request clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u73	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the end of almost two hours of this debate, I note that this is an authentic propaganda session of the Government and the Socialist Party's bench. So I am addressing you in your dual quality as Prime Minister and in charge of the PS propaganda machine. I have already heard things that correspond to a set of « narratives» — and, yes, I am using the word socratic» — that cannot condition the analysis of the state of the nation. The first narrative is that, I will call it this way, "my austerity is better than the other" and corresponds to this thesis that the Socialist Party's Government turned the page of austerity and, therefore, came to the first surplus of the history of democracy, a phrase I fear to hear until the end of my days. It does not, however, remember to explain how this deficit reached: not executing and captivating much of the expenditure and investments and regularly beating tax burden records in successive years. The second narrative, which I'm going to call here "the fault of the Steps", is to say, every time something is wrong, that at least in the time of the troika was worse. For me it is only weak to compare the current situation with a crisis situation that we had in 2011, where the financial markets were closed, the ECB ( European Central Bank ) did not intervene like now, there were almost negative interest rates, they were 7%, and there were no flexible deficit rules. To say the opposite and compare these crises is a form of misinformation. The third narrative, which I have heard being quoted today, is that this crisis has shown the failure of liberalism, forgetting that it was the liberal countries that reacted better to this crisis, which have fallen less in terms of economic growth,... [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... that they better guarded the health of their citizens, not leaving consultations and surgeries late as we did, that they had an educational system that reacted better and did not have the learning delays that we had. To pretend to say otherwise is a form of misinformation. And I bring these things here today because I know that everyone feels that there is a change of cycle, certainly of economic cycle, because we will start to resume, certainly of social cycle, because the pandemic will have to end, but the PS is afraid that it will also correspond to an end of political cycle. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] And then, he does everything to grab and promote two more particularly misleading and disinformationative narratives. The first is that the PS will be the champion of defination. Mr. Prime Minister announced that, by the end of summer, we will enter full release. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] The party that, for months, came here to the Assembly of the Republic to defend states of emergency with excessive, unnecessary powers, limiting individual freedoms and the party that, even after the states of emergency, continued to apply restrictive measures that still do not make sense today, instead of announcing immediate liberations to the next one or two weeks, is announcing them for probably one or two weeks before the actual elections. To this narrative I would call « electoralism has limits». A second narrative is that the PS will be the champion of growth. It is almost comical that the party that has been ruling in Portugal for a time during which Portugal has been successively overcome and has fallen relative to its European partners, is now here to grow into a champion of growth. This is when, by the end of the first quarter and compared to the end of 2019, our GDP has fallen 11 %, one of the highest rates in Europe, and now they want to convince us that growth in 2021 of 4 % and for the year of 5 % and then a stabilization of 2 % will be an economic miracle. He's not going! The PS is not the champion of growth. The PS is the champion of the stagnation. [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] But precisely because economic growth is absolutely fundamental for us to be, within a year or two, speaking of a better state of the Nation, I ask you, Prime Minister, if you don't think it better than the PS propaganda machine and the PS spend less time building these narratives and more time trying to understand why Portugal can't grow up like the other countries. That, yes, could lead to a better state of the Nation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u74	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u75	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, Mr. Deputies is indeed a character of a narrative of himself. In fact, I have no reason to debate with you on restrictive measures, because I remember and have pointed out everything I said about restrictive measures, at each of the times when it was really necessary to face up to decisions. I remember what you said and, therefore, we understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies can build the narratives they understand, but reality is what it is and is simple: in this century Portugal only converged with the European Union, i.e. only grew above the European average in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Portugal, after 25 April, had only one budgetary surplus, which was with this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To have this budget surplus was not to increase taxes, neither to cut wages, nor to cut pensions, it was to increase income, it was with the economy to grow, it was to increase public investment and even to reduce some taxes. That is how we have fulfilled and that is how we will continue to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u76	We will enter the second round of requests for clarification to the Government. You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, I don't know if you've already noticed it, but you've had better days — you and the nation as well. contrary to what has been said here, no, it is not the PSD that prays on Sunday for the government to fall. They are the Portuguese people who pray every day for the government to rule, for the government to protect them and for the Government to draw Portugal from the European tail in all social, economic and poverty indicators. [[PSD applause.]] And that's enough, ladies. Members and Prime Minister, speaking of the former Government, because every time Mr. Prime Minister speaks of the former Government, someone has to remind him that the former Government has carried out the patriotic mission of taking the Country from the tail of Europe. Nestled in the hands of our creditors, the country did not even have money to pay salaries to public servants. And it was not because the previous government of José Socrates — which Mr President-in-Office supported — left the country in an absolutely bad state and that is why we all had to call it the troika. Stop talking about it! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the Portuguese like to be treated as adults and I think that Mr. Prime Minister knows that they are getting more and more angry with you and are becoming more and more disobedient of the government. In fact, the government has acted almost like the new « owner of all of this ». Mr Prime Minister knows, by chance, why does the Government fail to comply with a law of the Assembly of the Republic which imposes 50 % reduction of tolls on the ex-SCUT(free of charge for the user) but how do you do what you want, only reduce by 30 % or 35 %? Can you explain that? Is that your territorial cohesion? It's just that you talked about it a little while ago! Explain that, because your ministers cannot explain it, Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] The government has been much more slippery than correct. I think that Mr. Prime Minister thinks he is a bit unpunished, he is overconfident, and generally these things usually give a bad result, and those who pay the fava, in the end, are always the people. Mr. Prime Minister, it is your leadership, the Government is yours and Mr. Prime Minister does what he understands, but as long as his ministers — many of them, but a special one — behave as they have behaved, and Mr. Prime Minister applauds them, clinging to them that not a blade to their government, keeping them there, not bad, but all the rags and rags that have been made are their responsibility. It's not theirs anymore, it's your responsibility, just! [[PSD applause.]] And now a question has been asked to you, but the Prime Minister has not been able to explain. Mr. Prime Minister said he didn't read the office the Minister of Internal Administration did. Do you not read — we believe in it — but now you see yourself in it? Can the Prime Minister perhaps validate an order that violates a recommendation from the PSP (PSC) Directorate that celebrations should not be held as they were done? Does Mr. Prime Minister see that or not? I also ask what you think of Mr. Minister of Internal Administration's statements when he said it was nothing, that the government had nothing to do with it and that it was Sporting's fault. Do you still want to keep this or do you want to correct Mr. Minister of Internal Administration here and restore the truth how, in fact, should it be restored? Minister Eduardo Cabrita has accumulated, let us say, disasters behind disasters, has hidden truths behind truths, has shaken the waters of the hood with the same ease as he breathes. So, Mr. Prime Minister, you take this responsibility at once. I believe you want to help a friend, I believe, Prime Minister, I believe, faithfully, but, you know what? To help a friend is a virtue from the human point of view and Mr. Prime Minister may even be humanist, but he is not being a statesman, because that help to a friend harms the country. Mr. Prime Minister, you can well prophesy, as you prophesied today, that the day of the release of the Portuguese is almost coming, the so-called "freedom day". I ask you, even to finish, if you didn't go through your head to buy a one-way ticket, for some ministers, particularly for MAI (Internal Administration Minister), then in the first class, to quickly release the Portuguese from some toxic assets that your government clearly still has. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u78	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government. For a request for clarification, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the pandemic has affected all generations, all sectors, all causes. He confirmed communities, delayed dreams. But I would like to speak to you in particular of a generation, ours! I am speaking of the young people who had to adjust to having a classroom or on television, of the young people who have joined higher education in mass but who have lived this period of discovery at a distance, of the young people who have lost their jobs — one in five — and who now face four times more unemployment than the rest of the population. They are the same young people who had to face precarious jobs, low wages, high incomes. They are the same young people who face worse mental health and a future threatened by the climate emergency. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that he did not forget young people in response to this crisis, as he had not done before. He did not opt for austerity, did not impose internal devaluation, did not appeal to emigration. Students today have more scholarships and less propens. The bags are increased according to the cost of housing and automatically attributed to whom it was already pocket. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are more paid traineeships for young people, there is more support for recruitment, which allows young people to stay for 27 % and not for 40 % at another time. Young parents have more daydreams, and free for 1. o and 2. the steps of social action school. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u80	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u81	Clinically-stage students were prioritized during vaccination. People LGBT (Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals and Transgender) became able to give blood. In mental health, responses were strengthened. In nine years we anticipate the closure of coal plants, accelerating the decarbonisation which is even the guarantee of the future of all of us. This is the brand of a reformist government, which invests in better and cheaper public transport...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u82	Where?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u83	... and in dignified and accessible housing, which combats precariousness and recovers income from families and businesses, which promotes innovation and entrepreneurship. But, Prime Minister, the best guarantee for young people to find their future in Portugal is to converge with Europe, the economy and wages. In the last 30 years, with the exception of one, Portugal has converged with Europe only with socialist governments, with reforms that promote decent employment, innovation and qualifications. It's a long, hard way, and it's over. That is why I ask you: how will we continue to converge with Europe, Prime Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u84	Also for a request for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has come to make an intervention which, in short, seems a bit like that song of « now is that it is». This is because we are going to see each of the concrete proposals that the government has come here today, and many of them were already planned before the pandemic. The specific example of the health area can be seen. Mr. Prime Minister said: "Now it is, let's hire, this year, 4400 professionals for the SNS." Moreover : we had already hired more 4000 in 2020, and this follows an agreement, with the Left Block, in 2019, not even the Government, nor any of us here in this Chamber, dreamed that there could be a pandemic. So to the question "what has the pandemic changed in the National Health Service? », we answered that it has changed a lot. What has not changed was the intention of contracting the government to first ensure the care to whom it is with COVID-19 or to those who have long consequences of COVID-19, and secondly to recover the magnitude of work that is still pending in this matter. Another issue in the area of health concerns the National Program for Mental Health. Mr Prime Minister said: « It is now that it is EUR 19 million this year, plus EUR 80 million from the PRR ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u86	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u87	I am repeating the correct numbers that Mr. Prime Minister mentioned here. I will repeat the numbers that were already in 2019: the EUR 19 million this year should have been spent last year, which did not happen. What you are telling us is that in the coming years, it will be EUR 20 million per year — these EUR 19 million in each of them — until the PRR is finished. In fact, a structural problem, which has been identified as such and aggravated with the pandemic, which is the country's mental health response, will again, in the good Portuguese way, be answered with punctual funds. And so, year after year, we're going to have the PRR to pay until, then, there's no PRR and we're looking for another fund to answer this question. Mr Prime Minister, « it is now that it is », but it should already have been and we see the « it should already have been» in various aspects of our economy and social support. It should already have been more support to the economy. Unfortunately, a large percentage of companies were left without that support which was necessary to protect jobs. It should already have been more social support, and the government ran after the damage, restating, in January and February of this year, what it had denied the Left Block, in October of the previous year. But now, in relation to the people who have seen the social unemployment allowance extended from February to July, and will be left without it in August, I ask you what it is for these people. It is because « now it is», for them it no longer responds to them. What the Prime Minister has said here is that they can access new support on a resource basis, when we know that many of these people, many of them women who need this support, are excluded from the condition of resources, because they have already had the support before. Now the « now it is», for them, means that such a full cup that Mr. Prime Minister has referred to is for some to drink with him, while many people like them do not even have a cup to offer. I ask, Mr Prime Minister: "is it now that it is" for these people? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u88	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr João Oliveira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u89	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, before going to the questions I had prepared to ask you, I wanted to leave a note here. We have noted his words about the very positive impact that the payment of the 100 % salary, following the proposal that the CFP incorporated into the State budget, and the fact that the people who were forgotten by the 2020 Supplementary Budget and who, in December, were left without social benefits today — who are in the same situation — are no longer confronted with this problem, because the 2021 Budget automatically renews these social benefits. However, Mr Prime Minister, even by valuing these two aspects, do not forget that there are many others who continue to be a problem, who have the solution in the State budget and who have to be resolved using the resources that the State budget provides. In relation to day care, health, education and social security issues, there are many other problems that still need to be answered and that have to do with the implementation of the State budget for 2021. Mr Prime Minister, we have heard, today, several times, laudable words, including in his speech, for the employees of the Public Administration and are fully deserved. Public administration workers were the guarantee of public services, ensuring the rights of citizens, in the last year and a half, with particular evidence in view of the needs and difficulties that the Portuguese have been experiencing. The question that arises, Prime Minister, is to know how words will turn from practice to practice. How is the recognition of the vital role that public administration workers have had in the past year and a half to ensure that citizens and populations have their rights, with all these laudable words, are given to practice? How will the government respond to the needs and problems that have been dragged on for years, in many circumstances, for many of the public administration workers in the most diverse areas and sectors. We need to know how the government will implement the obligation to move from words to acts, by valuing the wages and careers of public administration workers, by eradicating job precariousness, which in many areas and sectors of public administration continues to occur. How will it ensure compensation to those employees of the Public Administration who, whether in situations of insanity, penosity or risk, maintain their determination to give a quality response to public services that are provided to the people and citizens? It has already been asked and I insist, Mr Prime Minister: how will the Government ensure compliance with the obligation to guarantee the risk allowance to security forces professionals, not only in order to comply with the commitment it has made in the State budget, but above all in order to recognize the importance of the mission they carry out in ensuring the safety and tranquillity of the people? As with SNS, public school, social security and justice professionals, how will the government ensure its obligation to solve career problems that have been dragged down for years and that at the moment they function as an element of demobilization, when what these workers should have was a motivation to continue giving the quality response that they have given to the needs of citizens and populations? Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, in relation to public administration workers, it is absolutely essential that this response be given. To conclude, very quickly, I just wanted to ask you another question, which has to do with a matter that is also absolutely essential to answer a problem that is now very relevant and very meaningful from north to south of the country, the problem of day caregiving. The budget is expected to extend the freeness of daycare facilities, covering all children from the first and second steps, and that is a measure that must be met without difficulties or obstacles, but today there is another problem which takes greater preponderance and which is the problem of the lack of daycare facilities. This is because many institutions have closed doors to justify the impacts of the pandemic that have been associated with already weak financial situations. Regardless of this justification being or not true, the reality is that today there are fewer vacancies in day care centres and the government's response has been to push the responsibility for creating these vacancies to the authorities, but this does not guarantee, from north to south of the country, an adequate response to the needs of families. This response must be ensured, involving the responsibilities of the Ministry of Education and Social Security, to ensure a response that, from north to south of the country, corresponds in fact to the needs of families and also ensure, from the pedagogical point of view, the quality that must be associated with these day care breaks. The question that we are asking is this: what option will the government choose to respond to this problem? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u90	To request clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u91	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, spent a year on the fires in Santo Tirso, a fateful weekend that came to nude the reality of animal protection in Portugal, a reality for which the NAP had been alerting for a long time. One year has passed, but unfortunately we still do not have a rescue and animal protection team guaranteed by the government, we are still waiting for orders at the level of a national sterilization plan, we are still waiting for the money so that the official animal collection centres can recover, so that they can do works, and we are still waiting for the official lifting of illegal canes in Portugal, whether they are from the State, or they are particular. In essence, Mr Prime Minister, we want to know what the timetable for animal protection is for the government after all and why we have been waiting for so long.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u92	Mr Paul Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, I am here to talk to you about something that is very dear to both of us, both to you and to me, and I am sure you will appreciate it: the Azores. This theme that I bring has to do with the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which, as you know from the course of our last debate, has 1 % of the money captivated for State projects to be implemented in the Azores. This 1 % is substantially EUR 117 million. It is a very significant word and the Members elected by the Azores circle will be particularly attentive to their implementation on the ground so that it is not used, like an exercise which is very common in a very low rate of investment, in particular of the State in relation to the Azores. The second subject I bring to you is related to what I have heard, and I have listened very carefully. It seemed to me, I confess, that I was listening to Friar Antonio... I apologize, Friar Thomas, when I was talking about integration and social dimension in response to this crisis. This House has passed a law of support to increase social support to former Cofaco workers. It was a law passed in September 2020, which lacks regulation to be effective and for workers to have effective access to aid. It was a very important law, of the PSD initiative — it must be said! — practically unanimously adopted in this House and, Mr Prime Minister, the Government is failing to comply with it. And to comply with the law is very simple, Mr. Prime Minister, it is regulatory, it is to publish, so that these workers have access to the dignity and social integration which, very well, your Prime Minister, from there to the rostrum, has so much announced. Mr. Prime Minister, I feel like you are strong with the weak and weak with the strong. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u94	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, let us talk about the state of the nation this year that we live implies that we have to talk about education at a particularly difficult time for the country, as we have already said, and therefore we cannot allow this debate to pass on to the debate on the plan for the recovery of learning of our students, and much less we can allow ourselves to ignore the extent of these government measures so that no one will be more harmed by this pandemic. The truth is that, despite all the efforts of the schools, despite all the efforts of teachers, parents, the entire educational community, the authorities, the government, all over the country, this pandemic has left very hard marks that we have to overcome and, in fact, this plan for learning recovery is summed up in the word that it used well: ambition. In the ambition of a country of the future, a country of culture and knowledge, with more than 900 million euros to respond to a priority need, but basically to give shape to a consistent pedagogical approach. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that education is far from being the chaos that many here often like to pass and certainly does not work as an automatic pilot so that when something runs well that should be due to everyone less to the government. So I have a very concrete question to ask you. There are parents and students who accompany us today and who put in public school the hopes of a better life. And the word of trust left here, that lost time can be recovered, that this generation will not be harmed, also leads to such questions as this which must be put: how will this plan contribute to the quality of education in the next two academic years? Mr. Prime Minister, I conclude by saying that we all know that this is a very difficult task, but when we look at the data of the lowest school dropout ever, for the highest number of students ever to graduate from higher education, we certainly gain renewed courage for this fight and strengthen our confidence that everything will do for, once again, not leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u96	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, there has been no increase in taxes in the last two months, but the price of fuel has continued to rise. In other words, what explains the increase in fuel and energy prices is, above all, the profits of oil, the privatization of the energy market and the delivery of this sector to large economic groups. Energy and fuel prices are another obstacle to the recovery of economic activity and family income. They are a burden on the shoulders of a country that already bears one of the highest energy bills in Europe. It is in this context that Galp announces that it will distribute more than EUR 290 million to its shareholders and EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) announces that it will distribute more than EUR 755 million. This is unacceptable! Above all, it is unacceptable for a strategic sector such as energy to be in the hands of economic groups rather than being put at the service of the country's development. In addition to the proposed public control of the sector, the CFP has recently presented solutions to counter these increases in energy prices. We propose the establishment by the end of 2022 of a maximum price regime on fuels which prevents the increase in the profit margins of oil and also covers the tax component. We propose measures to lower the price of the gas tank, to break the differential on one side and on the other side of the border. We propose that the Government reverse the 3 % increase in the regulated electricity tariff, which will have impacts on all tariffs. We propose the exemption of oil tax on the part of electricity produced by renewable energy sources, among other measures. Already after presenting the CFP proposals, the Government has also announced its intention to intervene on the fuel margins without yet understanding the scope of its intentions, and that is what we want today, Prime Minister. How will the Government control the oil margins and ensure an effective reduction in the price of fuels? And in gas and electricity, what measures will the government implement? Are you going to intervene to lower prices or are you waiting for another cold winter to arrive at Portuguese houses while EDP and other economic groups distribute dividends to their shareholders? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u98	For clarifications, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u99	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the last debate on the state of the nation we brought to this House some examples of your government's lack of speech towards Madeira and we challenged him to correct the trajectory of his relationship with the Region. It has passed a legislative session and it continues to be the same. Mr. Prime Minister continues to flee the affairs of Madeira and, in particular, the new Madeira hospital, as the Devil flees the cross. On the other hand, during his last official visit to the Region, on matters pending, Mr Prime Minister said nothing — he went silent and quiet. But the Prime Minister should already know that the Macedonians are not people to give up and the Members who represent them are not. So, Mr. Prime Minister, you can take your horse out of the rain because it can constipate. Mr. Prime Minister may continue to run away from questions, but we will continue to ask him: when will he fulfill his promises? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u100	When will the co-financing of the new Madeira hospital be clarified? When it is going to correct the Council of Ministers' resolution to point out, almost blank, that the promised funding is 50 % and never below that, and much less, Mr. Prime Minister, to discount the cost of other infrastructures. Thanks to Madeira, the new hospital is already on the ground, but Mr. Prime Minister continues to escape his responsibilities and to refuse, as he refused in time of pandemic, all the requests that the Region has made. Until when? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, how long are the Madeirans going to be victims of the omissive behavior and, forgive me, the shameful expression of the Government of V.E.? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u101	To request clarification, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, it is true that the government continues in line with the fight against pandemic and that it has put the State and all its efforts to serve people to overcome this collective challenge. If there is an area that proves, contrary to what has been said, that we have not lost our ambition in relation to the great challenges of the country, in addition to public health and recovery, it is even the area of housing policy. The great reform that continues is the construction of the public intervention that was missing from the social state and thus continue to build the building of democracy. Before 2015, before this government and this Prime Minister, housing was the poor relative of the social state and the most ignored constitutional law of our country, but even with a social crisis that put new pressure on housing shortages, we will turn this page. This design goes far beyond the Recovery and Resilience Plan to respond to those who lack a decent home, to respond to those whose incomes do not reach the uncomplicated costs of housing. Today there are more than 28 000 families covered by the remarkable energy and capacity to realize the state and municipalities through local housing strategies. Today, it is due to the recognition that the state does not finally abandon local power and does not allow it to intervene alone in the housing. There are already hundreds of authorities and municipalities, led by all political quadrants, to implement and develop their housing strategies with the government, showing, in fact, that consensus around good policies and the opportunity that represents the PRR in the realization of more housing transcends to the ideological division. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are all needed to reach 2024, to celebrate the 50 years of April 25, with more and better housing. Mr. Prime Minister, we therefore leave the question about the opportunity to execute, until 2026, the largest investment in housing that the country has memory. But also because today's nation state still has the purpose of housing for all to fulfill, we also leave a question about young families and middle classes that also have excessive difficulties with housing costs to fulfill their life projects. In addition to combating unemployment and other policies, these people need increased strength in government responses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u103	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Nelson Silva, of the PAN Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u104	Madam President, Prime Minister, it is not possible to speak in the state of the nation without speaking about the corruption that costs us all about €34 000 every minute. How can we say that we fight corruption when cases of economic-financial crimes are dragged into time, diluting the evidence and with often dubious conclusions? We saw this with the New Bank, we saw it with Joe Berardo and Luís Filipe Vieira, with Operation Marquis and now we are also beginning to see the same process with the case of selling EDP dams to Engie. Mr Prime Minister, when will the justice pact come out of the drawer, which will really make an urgent contribution to improving justice in Portugal? You, as the Minister of Protection, made important progress, but as Head of Government, you are largely unaware of the whole area. When, Mr. Prime Minister, will the PJ (Judiciary Police) be equipped with financial, human and equipment resources to achieve this fight with dignity, instead of doing what they can with the migales they are delivered to them? When will more resources be given to ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ), whose mismanagement of its inspector-general has contributed to rain in offices, so that inspectors have to pay for the maintenance and fuel of ASAE's cars or, in many cases, of their own cars used at work? The government is slowly letting ASAE die, so important in combating fraud and monitoring economic activities. Mr Prime Minister, the answers to all of this we are now asking you have been left out of your initial intervention, which concerns us, given that this scourge in Portugal costs the State 8, 5 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). We hope, at least now, that you have the answers you have not wanted to give.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u105	For a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u106	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is not enough to say that the SNS is a priority. If this is a priority, then what is preventing the government from valuing and deigning the careers of health workers and creating working conditions? These are essential measures to fix health professionals, particularly doctors, thus allowing more users to be allocated to family physicians. What, then, is preventing accountancy of all points for changing pay positions or linking all health workers with precarious links? It does not lack a political option! For the government, the priority has been the obsession with the deficit, giving the National Health Service to the background. The recovery of screenings, consultations, examinations, surgeries, treatments takes time. The epidemic has shown that the SNS is the solution to ensure the right to health for all, but it has also made clear its weaknesses, which result from the policy options to de-investment in the SNS. The path must be to strengthen its capacity: more services, more valences, internalization of diagnostic examinations, hiring of health workers — they have been hired, but the number has fallen short of needs — and professional, social and remuneration valorization. by not doing so, the government is leaving room for private groups to continue to profit at the cost of health. Mr. Prime Minister, the lack of workers in public health teams continues to be solved. There are teams with fewer workers than at the beginning of the year, again experiencing delays in contact tracking and we all know what that means in the spread of infection. If it is important to increase the laboratory test capacity, why is the public response not reinforced in this area rather than increasing the value paid to private laboratories by performing the tests at COVID-19? There are delays in vaccination due to the lack of vaccines, so the Government is not understood to remain bound by agreements with the European Union rather than seeking to diversify the purchase of vaccines recognized by the World Health Organization, as other countries have done and today have higher vaccination rates. It is increasingly consensual that the solution to the control of the epidemic is to track, test, vaccinate and ensure social support, as the PCP defends. The solution to ensure the right to health is a stronger, more capable SNS with more rights workers, who are respected. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u107	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very synthetic and allow time for the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition to intervene. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, we can walk around here with a risky record, but the reality is very simple: year after year, the professionals of the National Health Service, whatever they are, have been increasing, as has been established. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, recently I had the opportunity to clarify the extraordinary measure that we have created and that the Left Block said it would never solve anything. The truth is that we not only respond to the 250 000 people to whom the Left Block said it was necessary to respond, as we did even respond to 270 000 people, between extraordinary support and all the other measures that were necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, you are not worried because the Recovery and Resilience Plan will not allow you to pay for current expenditure. So we're not going to make this investment now to then be discovered. This is even an additional investment that will be supported by the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u110	Mr. João Oliveira, it is very clear to us that it is necessary to correspond to the issue of security forces. As I said recently, we are in negotiations with the union forces. It is not an easy negotiation—even the proposal that the unions refused would represent EUR 48 million of an increase in expenditure—but we are negotiating and hope to reach a good port. On the question of public administration, we must have a strategy. I heard what he said, but there is a category of the Public Administration that nobody talks about and which we can't continue to forget, the senior technicians of the Public Administration. If we want to rejuvenate and attract newly-licensed young people to public administration and if we want this contract to also serve as an example for hiring in the private sector of newly-licensed young people, we must even look at general careers and in particular those of senior civil service technicians. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the day care centres, we have opened a new competition for the project PARES ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Program ) and, in the course of this contest, 130 applications have already been submitted, already being signed 42, in order to increase day care facilities. Mr Duarte Alves raised the issue of energy price. According to the report we have from the National Energy Security Authority, a significant part of this increase is explained by an abuse of marketing margins. We are looking at this report, but we are also creating a legislative instrument so that the Government can intervene and prevent abuse of energy prices. I would also like to tell Mrs Bebiana Cunha that we have a very clear timetable for implementing the measures contained in our animal welfare programme. On Friday, three tender notices will be opened, precisely for the CROs (official collection centres), for the zoophilic associations and veterinary hospitals. I would not fail to reply to Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa. It's not worth making up problems where they don't exist! The government has already made the commitment, the money is available in the Budget and it is just not complicated to be able to implement the Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would like to say a word about what Mr Nelson Silva said. The Government has presented the National Strategy for Combating Corruption and has mentioned it in my speech as a fundamental reform. Here in the Assembly of the Republic, there are the proposals for legislation that the Government had to submit and I invite the NAP to join in so as to enable the approval of these diplomas quickly so that we can have better legal instruments to combat corruption. As for the strengthening of the judiciary, we will continue with this strengthening. Finally, Mrs Paula Santos, the contract was made in accordance with the terms laid down in the State budget - it was 4366, which was what was in the Budget - and the tenders for their linkage are open. Thirdly, as I have had the opportunity to say, we will start the process of full dedication so that we can give the answer properly. I wanted to leave a last word of synthesis after this vast set of questions. I have heard several PSD Members speak, but I have made sure that nothing has been said about what is a priority for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u112	Nothing said about vaccination, nothing said about strengthening learning, nothing said about the Agenda for Deserving Work, nothing said about the need to put economic recovery into action, nothing said about an alternative vision for the strategy for the country. In short, they can only talk about cases and homes, but they do not talk about anything that concerns the actual life of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u113	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u114	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As in the past year, the state of the nation is still marked by the pandemic that since March 2020 brutally conditions the lives of all of us. The restrictive measures that the country has, and has, taken in this fight and its negative reflections in the economy and in our social balance are consequences to which no nation can escape. Only that the political management of these consequences varies from country to country, and that is exactly what makes a difference in the result, i.e. the level of suffering and economic delay that people will have to go through. in the context of a serious economic crisis, in which it is fair and strategically correct to support companies — and therefore employment — the Portuguese Government was precisely the one that did the least. It is the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development itself, the OECD, which confirms that we are the Member State with the highest percentage of companies to support and the second worst in terms of budgetary effort for this purpose. The level of failures, the rise of unemployment, the worsening of the social situation and the very discouragement of the entrepreneurs suffer the direct consequences of this socialist policy conditioned by the demands of the radical left that Parliamentaryly supports the executive. The Government must govern all Portuguese and not its occasional supporters. There is no shortage of money to bury in the TAP and the New Bank, but there is lack of money to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the bulk of our business fabric. [[PSD applause.]] For the New Bank, the Portuguese have already paid around EUR 8 billion and the audit of the Court of Auditors found that more than EUR 2000 million can be added to them. For TAP, 1, 7 billion have already flown and reveal to us the news that the government still wants to clear more EUR 2000 million there, outside the payment of the permanent losses that, in the future, as in the past, the Portuguese will certainly have to bear. A new ice cream from our money! But EDP also has special government treatment. As long as the tax does not extend, impedibly, the citizens and our companies, the government unfolds in justifications to support EDP in its creative tax escape engineering. [[PSD applause.]] It is very strange that it is the government itself to play the role of EDP's hard defense lawyer, discovering and agitating a blatant tax leak. Only in these three cases are more than EUR 12 billion of Portuguese taxes now. Only for these three cases, which the government so caressed, will a 'bascauca' of taxpayers' money from all of us! [[PSD applause.]] Of all of us, without support from Brussels! The value of EUR 1200 is how much, on average, each Portuguese has to pay by virtue of a government's policy that has gradually strengthened one of its main identity marks, which is precisely, as has already been said, to be weak with the strong and strong with the weak. [[PSD applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The weak government support for companies in pandemic time could be compensated for a greater effort within the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but the fact is that there too, despite all its rhetoric, as we have heard here, the government will turn its backs on our business fabric and favour public spending, which, as a rule, has a more immediate recognition by the elector. [[PSD applause.]] In the Development Bank, which should play a key role in the revival of the economy and which has become a black novel, the government also leaves its traditional brand of customerism,... [[PSD applause.]] ... with the attempt to appoint for your president someone connected to the worst times in the history of the General Deposit Box, the BCP and the New Bank. Times that, unfortunately, the current government has reminded us with concern, Mr. Prime Minister. But to this subservience to the strongest and militant clubism, we must add facilitation, as a hallmark of socialist politics. Facilitation is a notable presence in the present state of the Nation, by the hand of a government that is not only afraid of reforming, as even taking measures that can cause any discomfort. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u115	This facilitation is evident in education, for example, where the current Ministry, in each step it takes, devalues the requirement, lowers the quality and merit of students and teachers. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr President, you will ask the questions, and I will explain. [[Continuation of protests by the Member of the PS Porfirio Silva.]] Thank you very much. I'm available to explain. From the abolition of exams to the lack of planning for the recovery of lost learning, due to the pandemic, going through the pressure that has been made to schools so that students pass, even without filling the minimums, everything competes for the same effect. And that effect is the enormous damage socialist facilitation brings to the future life of our young people. It is the future of all of us who are at stake, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The most recent step in this policy of irresponsibility and contempt for the future of society, in general, and of students, in particular, was the abolition of the curricular goals that the Government has just determined at the beginning of this month. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Another step in the direction of always, the devaluation of knowledge, rigor and organization. We also know that, in the short term, there will be a worrying lack of teachers, with the way out for the reform of many of the current effective ones. Still, nothing has been done to restore the appreciation of the teaching profession. On the contrary, what has been done is to contribute even more to your wear and demotiveness. It is clear that it is much more pleasant to make it easier than to demand and plan, but the quality of the ruler is precisely measured by his firmness and courage to take the measures that the future demands from us, rather than those which commodism and'strengthening' demand. [[PSD applause.]] In the internal administration there are also examples of discoordination and lack of rigour, such as the death of a Ukrainian citizen at the premises of the Foreign and Border Service, the anarchic celebrations of the national football championship, the chaos at the end of the Champions League, the lack of hygiene and working conditions of immigrant citizens in the Alentejo, the invasion of private property in Odemira, and we could continue. There are too many examples that testify in particular to the complete discoordination prevailing today in the Ministry of Internal Administration. It is also in the midst of this disappointment that the Government resolves to extinguish the SEF, not because this option is strategically justified, but because the Government needed to find an scapegoat for what was unacceptable at the premises of this service. [[PSD applause.]] The rulers rule badly, the services and the employees pay, of course! What is required of us is the strengthening of the SEF, which will provide it with the necessary capacity to resolve the very poor control of the borders of the European Union in Portuguese territory. Mr Prime Minister said in this Parliament that he has an excellent Minister of Internal Administration. We have thus come to know the demands of the Head of Government, who sees himself with enthusiasm and pride in the performance of this Minister, so his friend. In the health sector, allow me, Prime Minister, before I say anything else, to remind you that you did not answer the question of more than 1 million Portuguese being without a family doctor. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u116	V. Exa, Prime Minister, did not say anything about Law No. 48/90, the law of bases which, for 29 years, ruled the National Health Service, and V. Exa was twice Minister, very well adhered to this law and had no discomfort. PSD is a builder of the National Health Service, its laws and its financing, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] In health, we continue to struggle, or lack the struggle, against the dramatic situation of waiting lists, in the hope that one day we will be able to treat all other diseases beyond the COVID-19. If it is understandable that, at the beginning of the pandemic, health care has been degraded due to the ignorance that we all had of the new phenomenon that has reached us today, it is no longer acceptable to lack of adequate and effective planning for the reduction of waiting lists. The result of this disorganization is the growth of the mortality rate, which increased more by other pathologies than directly by the COVID. The growing lack of family doctors, in contrast with Mr. Prime Minister's promise, also competes not only for the increased mortality in Portugal, but for the silent suffering of many thousands of Portuguese, who do not have financial resources to be treated in the private sector at their own expense. What happens today in health centers, with the lack of answers, is desperate and tragic, very tragic! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, the state of the nation we are debating here today is not good. We need a government with courage to face up to the interests set up, and we have, however, an executive who is facing the strongest. We need a commitment in companies for faster economic recovery and more robust competitiveness, and we have a government in the hands of the radical parliamentary left and against the private initiative. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u117	We need structural reforms in various sectors of national life, and we have a governance, as is particularly evident in justice, where the first concern is to satisfy the corporate interests and the friendships represented in the current Ministry of Justice at the highest level. [[PSD applause.]] We need a shared public administration, also and especially its leaders, and led by technically capable frameworks, and we have, however, a government with tips of clientelism and even nepotism. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] We need rigour, organization and demand, but we are governed by a political culture of facilitation and subordination to the full privilege of the most or least deserving of this privilege on the part of the Government. [[PSD applause.]] We need a government that brings hope and not disappointment and conformity. of our part, Social Democratic Party, we know what the country needs and we act in consonance. We are synchronized with the Portuguese, we are building a proposal for a modern and bold constitutional review, which we have already launched for public debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u118	Smells like mofo!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u119	We will shortly present a proposal for reform of the balanced and proportionate electoral system. We will conclude the second phase of our proposals for reform of justice, in order to return dignity and effectiveness to our democratic rule of law. It is up to the PSD to lead the opposition with ideas, with courage and coherence. This is what we always have in mind and that we seek to follow with seriousness and complete fidelity to our programmatic principles. And we do so always with the concern of the front of everything most to place Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u120	Mr Adam Silva, you have a request for clarification. To make this request for clarification, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Adam Silva, you have come to this debate without the matter studied... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u122	... and this was very clear in the first intervention you did, when you asked Mr. Prime Minister for clarification. In addition, in his pulpit speech he revealed that he wanted to concentrate in cases, in cassettes, amplifying what is not truly structural for the country. That was very clear, saying something and its opposite. But, Mr President, I would like to concentrate some notes, especially on what you have done, a little while ago, on the question to Mr Prime Minister. Following an intervention by Mr Prime Minister, who said, and well—it is true! — that the PSD came to the PRR debate, a debate promoted by the government, and did not bring a single idea, a single solution, Mr Adam Silva presented a document he had made. To everyone’s surprise, there was a document! Now, in this period between your intervention and the moment I am speaking, I went to see the document and I already understood why you did not bring the answers and the proposals for the debate. It is that the document reveals everything that is the PSD, what it does and what it does not do, what it says and what it does not say, and in the bottom it reveals that the lie, somehow, has short legs. I'll explain what I mean by this. For example, what does PSD propose to strengthen the National Health Service? It proposes EUR 1000 million. What does the government propose? It proposes EUR 1400 million. Mr President, the honourable Member then begins his question to the Prime Minister to say that there is no money, that this is missing, that this and his proposal is less than that which the PS reveals? Oh, my God! Let's start here! It's here, the proposal is yours! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, in the context of a relevant topic, which is school, education, the exclusion of students who do not have digital conditions to be able to access school, what does the PSD propose for digital school? It proposes EUR 400 million. What does the government propose? It proposes EUR 559 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, what is the consistency of your question? Oh, my God! We continue with the alpha and the omega of the PSD speech, in addition to yours in the rostrum, which is support for companies. With regard to support for businesses, Mr Deputies and PSD Members in general often bring to this debate a role, a cry of lies, Mr Deputies. I'm sorry to say this in such a direct way, but it's a lot of lies. [[PSD protests.]] The RPP has provided for 30 % of direct support to companies, which are EUR 5000 million, has an additional EUR 5000 million in PT 2030 and still has EUR 3000 million for companies to spend on PT 2020. You know that you don't spend money, even in businesses, from time to time. So there is a limit, and I have already said it here n times, for which companies have the ability or not to spend. But, look, what is relevant is what the PSD has, within the framework of the PRR. And the PSD has EUR 4 billion. It is less than EUR 1 billion than the government proposes! [[P.S.'s applause.]] How is that possible? Mr President, how is that possible? Oh, my God! Explain this! But it's not just. Finally, Mr. Member, we have come to say that we need more money in the PRR. And despite the care we have to deal with the public accounts, we have always been assigning to PRR 2, 7 billion euros of loans because this is fundamental to companies and is fundamental to the Development Bank. What did the PSD put on? Loans, EUR 1500 million, i.e. less EUR 1200 million than the government in the RPP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I conclude by saying that such speeches are not worth making. It's a fraud that Mr. Deputy brought here... [[PSD protests.]] ...and next time, study the matter again, because, in fact, we're not going there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u123	To reply, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u124	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Carlos Pereira for his questions. I would like to say the following briefly: firstly, we are carefully studying the government documents, of course, and we were also waiting for the Prime Minister to study our documents carefully. It happens that he did not do so and therefore I had the opportunity to send him, with a dedication, the document so that he could read it during the holidays. But, Mr President, our contributions, as stated here, were just a start of conversation! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u125	We were going to build, logic is building! Mr President, at the time we did not know what the value was. Look at one thing: the value of loans has been set very recently, for example. So we had the purpose, we had the idea, we had the project. And we have, they're quantified. They could obviously be adjusted into a logic of conversation with the government, and that's what we expected. [[PS laughter and protests.]] But look, what did the government do? He closed, isolated himself in an autistic logic. It's not a good government, it's not a good government that closes! Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, do you see cases and homes? Oh, my God! So, I'm talking about education problems and that's a case and a house? Oh, my God! I'm talking about justice. Is that a case and a house? Oh, my God! Do I talk about business-related problems and the lack of support for businesses and this is a case and a home? Oh, my God! I understand that what you want is to devalue Portugal, devalue the Portuguese, devalue the opposition and, in essence, create an autistic logic in which only its government, the bad government of the Socialist Party, prevails. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u126	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few months ago, in one of the most difficult moments of the pandemic, a PSD spokesperson said: « We have a tired Prime Minister». And he insisted, with a certain disdain: "The Prime Minister is tired, he needs to go to rest. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Prime Minister may have had moments of fatigue, such as certainly had nurses and doctors, teachers, caregivers and millions of workers who left home every day so that the Portuguese could continue to feed themselves, have garbage collection, safety on the streets, essential industrial production, etc. etc. etc. But even tired, the Portuguese did not give up, they did not follow the bad advice of the PSD Member, whose words illustrated a policy. While the government, like the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, institutions and families, while this great partnership was struggling to preserve health and trigger the crisis, the main opposition party chose to make the pandemic an opportunity to try to destabilize governance, perhaps even dreaming to overthrow the government. And in a few moments they would have believed that they had found partners available to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We've had a pandemic for years and a half, but the greatest party in the opposition has not taken more than a month and a half to give up a responsible position in the face of the greatest struggle in our lives. And he showed this to the country, becoming in continuous and systematic contradiction. The Budget, first gave everything to everyone, then it was short; at Christmas it was to mitigate the measures, but then there should not have been Christmas for anyone; Rui Rio said that there were more teachers, but now it seems to be the opposite; in May it was urgent to open the borders to the British, but when the British finally came, we had been seen by the subjects of His Majesty; first the government did not make reforms, then there were hidden reforms in the PRR. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it was this continuous and systematic contradiction broth that fed the valley all: the « close, close » when it opened, followed by the « open, open », when the preservation of health obliged to close; which gave cover to irresponsibility, as when I heard here, in Parliament, it was said that «the British variant does not determine the closure of schools, the British variant is an excuse from the Prime Minister. Give me a break! We heard this here! The attack on the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union had its prime time when a Euro MP from the PSD compared Portugal to Hungary in Orban, writing that « in terms of political regime, it seems more and more to us than what separates us. » Orban left the PPE at the cost, but apparently the style remained. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, in a democracy, the state of the nation is also the state of opposition. A negative opposition, without a vision for recovery, is an opposition that fails the country. As for that, nothing we can do, but we have done the part that touches us. Before the pandemic, we were growing above the European average and we had budgetary surplus, before the pandemic, our progressive agenda was already underway: the digital bet, applied in health or education, for example, we did not discover it in the pandemic, the fight against inequalities and poverty, the wager in housing, decent employment, public services, a fair climate transition, sustainable mobility, territorial cohesion, decentralization. We did not expect the pandemic to advance in any of these domains and our pre- pandemic agenda prepared the country for the extraordinary response that the Portuguese gave to this challenge. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we are ready for the future and we want to share the responsibility of joining the forces of all those who in recent years have been building a path of progress, where Portugal can only be good if the Portuguese are better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u128	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u129	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years and, in particular, in recent months, it is knocking on us the brutal reality for which scientists and climate activists have been alerting for a long time. What the negationists said was scientific fiction quickly entered our homes in Telejournal reports. What yesterday seemed to be just a portrait of any distant territory today enters into our lives as an increasingly dangerous reality and ever closer. What the news still treat as 'natural disasters', of course, has very little. The economic system relies on unbridled extractivism and climate irresponsibility today takes its dramatic consequences. This is just the beginning of a new world that capitalism created and these consequences are paid over time by all of us, especially by the poorest in the world and by the poorest in each country. In the Mojave desert in California, the thermometers recorded this month more than 50 degrees. For the first time, Amazonia emits more carbon dioxide than the one it absorbs. In the centre of Europe, particularly in Belgium and Germany, violence has taken more than 200 lives in recent days and destroyed thousands of homes. In southern Europe and right here in Portugal, fires are an affliction that is intensified with the approach of each summer. Climate catastrophe is not an opinion, it is a fact. We cannot spend time, which we no longer have, discussing with negationists. The debate of our time is, yes, about the measures we need to deal with climate change. There will be no lack of anyone who swears to fight climate change with the only condition that nothing is done to combat climate change, starting with eco-opportunists, who bring the climate discourse in the lobby, but do not hesitate to forget the climate every time the business speaks higher. There will be no shortage of eco-liberals, whose economic model causes the evils that eco-liberals say they want to fight. in this legend, the salvation of the planet is a business like any other, which, certainly because it is profitable, will close the cycle of global warming generating new fortunes based on merit. Humanity will quickly lose patience for similar fallacies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a country with low wages like Portugal, it is undeniable that the price of fuels is unbearable for most people. In view of this, there are those who proudly launch the climate crisis behind their backs and support the subsidization of fossil fuel prices. Others have, shamefully, to shoot for a future transition to the individual electric car, knowing that this response is at nothing sustainable, equal to the current model. Betting on the proliferation of individual cars in big cities is like trying to stop the wind with your hands. The solution has to go through, yes, by sharing vehicles and collective transport, with more free offer and trend. And it also goes through a territorial policy that, instead of promoting speculation and real estate abuse, ensures sustainable cities and villages and guarantees the right to housing. Without it there will be no fair transition to protect the planet, without it we will just be wasting the time we no longer have. But the most frightening of these days, this day, perhaps, was to hear the Prime Minister, in this debate, commending the Portuguese Presidency for including climate and social concerns in the common agricultural policy, while the Minister of Agriculture—which only has for agriculture a financial package comparable to the entire Recovery and Resilience Programme, 10 billion—is concerned to twist the same criteria approved during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union to divert resources from rural development and biological production to reintist landowners who have accumulated privileges in the south of the Tex for decades and compromise the territorial cohesion and ecological transition of agriculture and forest. The government's climate discourse seems to have the government's own action as the greatest enemy. The Independent Technical Observatory yesterday submitted a report to Parliament on the Integrated Rural Fire Management System, stating even that the lack of proposals for action on climate change is "the most serious omission of the National Action Programme" on forest fires. In the climate, as in the rest, what counts is where the money goes. If you go to the income paid to a few large rural owners and not to the transformation of the forest or to the settlement of the territory, then we learn that the government has resigned to fires. And nothing would be more irresponsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of the nation is marked by the pandemic we are living. One year ago, we were not the only ones to warn that this crisis would not be rapid, that four-month contracts for hospitals would not respond to the effort required by the SNS and its professionals, that short-term and weak-range support would not respond to the needs of the economy and families, but the government always refused to strengthen the crisis response measures. He bet that last summer would be over, he did not prepare the second pandemic strike, neither the third nor the fourth. You asked Parliament for a supplementary budget and then you didn't use the money. He made a budget for 2021 which was already out of date at the time it was approved. The Government rejected the Bloc's proposals and this year it added appreciable, insufficient and late measures to contain the damage. In the SNS, the professionals stretched a too short blanket and are exhausted. The COVID emergency was leaving other care behind, the goal of fixing professionals was delayed in favor of precarious contracts, the number of users without a family doctor increased. Even in the COVID response that blanket is shrinking: with the refusal to increase contracts and make connections, the vaccination process had to go after people to the screenings and now a quarter of the infected is not enough to be contacted by public health. In support, Portugal remained at European minimums and the government preferred to take families and businesses to moratoriums. in an already indebted country, the omission of the public response creates an even heavier situation and we will pay this omission dearly. It is true that thousands of workers throughout the administration — from hospitals to schools, from social security to the military who support the logistics of vaccines — have done a huge job to make things work, and it is also true that the crisis is tough and there are no easy solutions. We know him well. And, as you know, the government and the country, we have never dealt with solidarity with the difficult measures and solutions that this time required, but the government has been engaged in very short-term and even contradictory responses. Today, we look at the year that has gone and what it will be, and the government seems to be not available for another breath, another policy. No new proposals are known and the Government has decided to start the next cycle by maintaining a number of ministers whose mandates are being dragged, without the ability to make the necessary changes. The Minister of the Environment is marked by discredit due to his transition to the fraud of EDP in the dam business. Since the inexplicable silence on the murder of Ihor Homeniuk, the Minister of Internal Administration has already released only one case when he gets into another. The Minister of Social Security accumulates confusions and omissions in support of workers affected by the crisis. Analysts will say that ruling in pandemic causes weariness. It is not to expect anything else, but the only way to compensate for this wear is to always impose the criterion of public interest and answer for the country. This same country that, at the moment of the health, social and economic crisis, hears, incredulous, the reports of the large bank debtors who assault the state's safes. This country which sees the Government continue to inject money into the New Bank, insisting on a path that had been refused here in Parliament by the State Budget. Life has shown that a timid response does not overcome the crisis. And this is the first lesson of the pandemic: short-term governance does not respond to the longest pandemic in our lives. That is why, at the time we debate the state of the nation, we must ask ourselves whether the country can be content with a policy of minimums, which postpones solutions and answers to the most fragile or, on the contrary, we are going to fight for the investment that overcomes the crisis. For our part, we never hesitate: wages and health, dignity and respect. That's what moves us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u132	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u133	Mrs President, Mrs Catarina Martins, has talked about a number of issues, I must say that we do not share your vision, which is yours, in relation to various areas, but I would particularly like to focus on the social dimension. The state of our nation, like that of all the nations of the world, has been marked, over the last year and a half, by the pandemic and the exceptional times that we have gone and are forced to live. But these times also mark the response each government has given to the crisis — to the social and economic crisis caused by the health crisis, because this has made the difference in Portugal. And in Portugal, with this government, there were no doubts: we followed the path of refusing austerity, supporting families, preserving businesses, strengthening the National Health Service and strengthening the public school. That has been the choice of the Portuguese Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u135	That is why, in this debate, we can and should evaluate the state of opposition and the state of the solutions they propose to us when they intervene here. We know that there are those who just want to add crisis to the crisis, with embezzled responses, with austerity responses, and there are those who want to build an alternative around the path that we have been pursuing. Because the urgency of the response to the pandemic crisis is made with the necessary measures in the health and public health front, but also with the social and economic protection measures that the Portuguese Government has been implementing. The government has been implementing a solidarity-oriented action, a vision that has been able to avoid the social and economic devastation caused by the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u137	Today, when vaccination progresses and we have increasing light at the bottom of the tunnel, it seems clear that the measures taken by the Government have managed to safeguard incomes, businesses, jobs, credits in moratoriums, among many other areas, which constituted not a policy of numbers, but a policy of response necessary to the urgency of the crisis. Last known data on unemployment show that we are already recovering to pre-pandemic levels, with the lowest level registered at the IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training) since March 2020. This is not only possible because we protect jobs, not only because we avoid the destruction of jobs, but also because we have also avoided the escalation of unemployment over the past few years by taking measures to disenfranchise labour relations. And the Portuguese know well what we have done in this period, Mrs. With regard to the exceptional social and economic support measures, 3 million Portuguese were covered — many of them certainly listening to this debate — 174 000 companies and more than 4253 million euros of social security support, including contribution exemptions, the Layoff paid to 100 %, support for independent workers, support for partners-managers, support for progressive recovery, encouragement for the normalisation of activity, exceptional support for families, extension of social benefits, low per sickness CVID, support for prophylactic isolation, supplement of stabilization, extraordinary support measure for workers, payment of additional benefits for family allowances and other measures to improve income, increase of pensions and increase of minimum wage, which has increased 32 % since 2015. This is not a policy of minimums, this is the answer we have to give to the country, to the Portuguese, and that is what we have been doing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I conclude by saying that it is impossible to look at all this and much more and find, however much they want, austerity, devaluement of the social state or deprotection of the Portuguese. We know that the only way to continue this path and to prevent it from undoing, in the face of the temptations of the parties on the right, is to ensure the good governance of the Socialist Party, in the parliamentary dialogue on the left, which we have built since 2015. That is what we need to define the positions in this debate, too. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I conclude by asking whether the Left Block still remains skeptical about the path we have travelled since 2015 or whether they are available to build the future on the state of the Nation together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u138	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u139	Madam President, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, it is a pleasure to hear you. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u140	I believe that you have suffered a lot from some of the votes you have made in this Parliament, and I am penalizing myself for the Socialist Party to do this to you. You know, after listening, I ask myself this: "How is it that a Member who is defending the right to work and to pay so strongly feels about some votes he has done in this Parliament and how did he feel after hearing the Prime Minister when he voted against collective bargaining in Parliament days ago, proposed by the Left Block? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u141	He voted right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u142	How do you feel, Mr President, when you hear Mr. Prime Minister say that the social unemployment allowance ends this month? And they're going to run out of support so many women with children who don't get a job because everyone tells them they don't know whether schools will work or not and whether they can miss them or why they just have to come home from their parents and someone get the minimum pension so they don't have any support, as the Socialist Party has designed. How do you feel, sir? Don't you feel that's little? You don't feel like you're giving up people you're defending, what do you want to defend? Mr President, what do you say to the employees of the Altice who are currently being replaced by workers in outsourcing, with the same dismissal rules as the troika did and which the Socialist Party refused to revoke here in Parliament? Sir, don't you feel bad about that? Mr President, you do not feel bad about working for four years in a report against precariousness...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u143	What about the Budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u144	...and then, at the end, the government has handed over to social consultation and made an agreement with the PSD to increase the experimental period and to lie down for the trash can all the work we have done to combat precariousness? Mr President, do you not feel bad about knowing that the government has just handed down the rules of work in social consultation, in which it excludes workers from the digital platforms?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u145	Excluding? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u146	Sir, don't you think it's a little bit? Don't you think that in order to defend work and wage, do you really need rules for the economy? Mr President, if you are here to make these rules, you know that the Left Block never fails to fight this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u147	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u148	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than we can reflect today on the state of the nation, this debate should also serve to assess the state of government. And if the state of the nation is bad, the state of government is a disaster. The state of the nation is, of course, much of the result of the pandemic crisis that we live in, but also of what was the six years of governance of the Socialist Party, with its allies. On the pandemic, which has affected more than 17 000 Portuguese and to which professionals and the country have responded with courage and solidarity, it should be remembered that, in their management, many mistakes have been made. Of course, for strictly ideological reasons, the mistake was made of wanting to exclude the private sector and the cooperative sector in the fight against disease in order to value the rhetoric of the public, when what was needed was to treat patients using the full capacity installed. More: Errors in the information(uses mask/ does not use mask) ; Errors in the rush of the first defination; in the idea that the second wave did not arrive here; in what happened at Christmas and January, and so we became the worst country in the world, in terms of pandemic. Most of these errors were caused by organizational inability, lack of testing, lack of sequencing and, above all, because every time things run a little better propaganda overlaps everything and leads to more errors being made, as was the case with some parties. Having arrived here, and in spite of this, the Socialist Party comes full of itself and is obsessed with shutting down the opposition throughout the debate. After all, it's all great. Arrogants and prepotents, bring what to us? Laughs and propaganda. I would even say that, with regard to jokes—and it is nothing with me—I would not recommend much the jokes about the gifts of Sebastiões, Brussels or Massama, whatever. It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem may even be in the Council of Ministers. You better start looking to the side and see where the problem is. And with regard to dolphins or successions, I mean that your situation is not brilliant either: the one in Lisbon got into trouble with Moscow and the other one didn't take off. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Don't take off! It's ground! Groundforce or not, but it's ground, don't take off. So maybe it's not that good joke about the opposition. But one of the most worrying facts about the state of the nation is precisely how freedom and democratic rights are being threatened in Portugal and parliamentary scrutiny has been decreasing. It is a real scandal how the Prime Minister's presence in Parliament has been reduced to almost one third, with the end of the 15-year debate. Lack of scrutiny, protects incompetence. The Prime Minister has brought us here a list of what we owe his government and the PS only tells us how much we should all be grateful for the government. I would rather remember a few things that we owe to the PS and to the government. We owe the Government the failure to fulfill the promise of a family doctor for each Portuguese and the increase in waiting lists, especially for everything that is not COVID. We owe to the Socialist Party and the Government the lack of credibility of justice, affected by false information about the European prosecutor and the constant proximity, not to say promiscuity, between the judiciary and political power, as well as the unacceptable release of prisoners on the pretext of the COVID-19. We also owe the Socialist Party a no-end of cases and incompetence in the Ministry of Internal Administration. They don't like cases, but who creates cases is we, by the way? We're not! from smoking golos to SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal ), illegal immigration in the Algarve, ZMAR and in the case of the SEF, the latter particularly serious, because thanks to the Socialist Party, it ended with an institution capable of 35 years of service to the country to save the head of a incapable minister. Indeed, management, although now of variable geometry, is always there to save the Minister. In the SEF, it was the Left Block that gave the hand; now, in the case of Sporting celebrations, it was the PCP blocking the hearing. [[CDS-PP applause.]] When nothing happens, responsibility becomes the Prime Minister, but we are left — they are frightened, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! — to know today that Mr Prime Minister did not know anything. Regarding an event with this potential impact across the country, or did not know or want to know. Very strange, very strange, even in a Prime Minister who, moreover, was, for eight years, President of the City Council of Lisbon. We also owe to the Government the lack of support for security forces and the lack of risk allowance. What is true is that socialism feels more and more that everything can. We had already seen it in the scandalous case of sending data by the Lisbon Chamber to the Russian regime, where the PCP also gave it its hand. The essential is rhetoric and ideology, which are used to support the conviction that everything is permitted to the PS, whether in appointments or in celebrations. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It was in the name of this ideology that the Socialist Party attacked the private sector in education, preventing poor students, in places where public supply is insufficient, from accessing private quality education. Despite all the propaganda, this government has not left a mark in the Presidency of the European Union. contrary to what he says, this was the government that did not close the CAP negotiations, and it is so necessary to support agricultural projects! The problem of this government is not even, as some argue, to replace two or three most obvious ministers of incompetence, and that is why the problem is solved. Don't! It is a matter of substance and wrong choices. They are the wrong options when the government is struggling not to provide social support or when it closes its social support base, ignoring the middle classes and liberal professionals, who at the same time are sacrificed by the pandemic and excessive taxes. It is a wrong fundamental option, when, in the most structural issue to get out of the crisis — the PRR — the government has chosen to direct the essential of the European funds to the State, to the public sector — only to the public sector. It is wrong on the part of the Government and the European Union that less support and incentives are given to small and medium-sized enterprises, responsible, yes, for most jobs and for paying the majority of taxes. So the truth is that we are one of the countries that in the European Union is less recovering and less growing. It's an unforgettable fact. This is a government that keeps the rules, it is a government that is not available to change the rules that make Portugal have one of the highest fuel costs in the whole European Union, which obviously penalises companies within Portugal and also exporting companies. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not enough to replace one point. The question is fundamental and it is an option. The choice for the country is very evident: it is between an increasingly arrogant or dominant socialism, or, then, alternative, freedom. If the Socialist Party is convinced that everything can, that everything says, because of the difficulties that the alternative may be happening, is very wrong. In democracy, there is always an alternative and a bad government, like this one we now have, will end up being replaced, and will be replaced, by the will of the people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u149	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It is very clear from this debate of the state of the nation that has been doing much to rescue the Country of the interests by which it has been captured. We begin by seeing that, during the health crisis, thousands of health professionals who have never left the front line continue to fail to see their recognized and valued careers. Structural investments in the SNS remain closed in the drawer, whose key apparently was lost in the face of a State budget yet to be met, which is not accompanied by back slaps or, less so, with empty congratulations of answers and solutions to their professional problems. From confinement to confinement, in the face of the failures in social support, absurd injections were kept to banking institutions — even incorporating the one that has been one of the biggest white collar crimes in our country, such as the New Bank and the « Operation Marques » — tax and perverse subsidies, which rise to EUR 500 million per year, in particular, to the industries responsible for the climate crisis, thus mortgageting the future of the planet and of future generations, despite numerous appeals from civil society. in another drawer, whose key is also lost there, has been closed the decarbonization of the economy and of the intensive and superintensive agriculture itself and the transition to more sustainable models, often claimed by the PAN in debate in this House of Democracy. This state of the nation is actually a snowball to which the government has pushed us in recent months, a snowball that leaves many out, but where one realizes that there are untouchable ministers. This, in a state of democratic law, is absolutely unacceptable. More: the democratic retrogresses we have witnessed, in this matter, even of human rights, are absolutely unacceptable. When we talk about human rights, we don't just talk about equality. We are also talking about the right to live in a healthy environment, where our forests, our oceans and ecosystems are preserved, fighting for climate justice, intergenerational justice and interspecies. This brings us to another closed drawer to the key, where numerous measures are kept to preserve biodiversity and to protect animal welfare, when, on the other hand, the government offers 10 million euros to the hunting baronate, where legislation continues to apply which allows public support for this activity, as well as to the anachronic tournapped.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u151	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u152	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. We have concluded that this cannot be the future. The government cannot have two weights and two measures when it says it wants to dialogue, but then it takes time to implement them. from the NAP, here we will be to act accordingly. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u153	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative session, which is about to end, is marked by the response to the pandemic we are experiencing, a response which confirmed the importance and need for a strong and robust social state, capable of allowing the State to fully fulfil the social functions arising from the Constitution. But this is also a period that has accentuated social inequalities and environmental imbalances. On social inequalities, it is sufficient to address today's frightening poverty rates, which in fact contrast cruel and immoral ways with the dividends distributed by shareholders of large companies, such as EDP, CTT ( Post Offices of Portugal ), Jerome Martins, Brisa, Galp Energy, Sonae, NOS and others, which, as a whole, raised 7, 4 billion euros in 2020, i.e. more 330 million than in 2019. This means that, even in times of pandemic, large companies continue to distribute dividends as one who throws maize to the pigeons, at full hand. It would therefore be fair for the PRR to look into the numbers of poverty and to keep large companies away from any public support, because, as we see, even with the pandemic, they continue to add to their profits. As for environmental imbalances, there is still a lack of protection of our biodiversity and our ecosystems: protected areas are transformed into open-air plastic dumps, as is the case in the Southwest Alentejano Natural Park; intensive olive and almond productions continue to flood our landscape, especially the Alentejan landscape; multinationals choose locations for the construction of important infrastructures such as airports, ignoring public interest and also environmental damage caused; natural resources, such as lithium, surrounded by cloudy processes and lack of transparency, do not meet the environmental impacts and quality of life of the populations. Yes, because in Barroso there are no possible minimisation or compensation measures in the face of the damage caused by the mine, particularly at the water level, but also by biodiversity. And if the process goes on, well we can say that Barroso was already! Behind will be the Barroso, but also the importance and model that represents mountain agriculture, especially when we talk about the need to combat climate change. But at this session we also noted the continued government's devotion to the European Union's taxes, which did not allow it to diversify the options for the purchase of vaccines outside the business framework of the European Union with half a dozen multinational pharmaceuticals. And even when these pharmaceuticals failed the time limits for delivery of vaccines, however, the government was unable to search for procurement solutions outside Europe's business. This session was also marked by the attempt by the PS and the PS to escape democratic scrutiny, which was visible at three levels: firstly, at the level of the functioning of this House, with the end of the 15-year debates with the Prime Minister, with the difficulties created for the discussion of petitions in plenary and with the reduction of European debates; then, with the cooked proposal between the PS and the PSD for the parish, which will prevent many of them from being remedied, even though this is the will of the populations; finally, but not less worrying, with the release of the PS and the PSD to try to change a law with the sole purpose of passing over the municipal chambers which have given them the impression that they do not like the government in such important matters as the location of an airport. This session also confirmed what the Greens have been claiming for a long time: it is absolutely imperative that we come to our production. We need to work seriously to recover our food sovereignty, to bet on small agriculture, to dynamize proximity circuits and local markets, as a way to boost the flow of products and create the conditions for producers to produce and sell their products at fair prices. Betting in our production will undoubtedly reflect on our economy, our food sovereignty, the fight against regional asymmetries, the abandonment of the rural world and even the prevention of forest fires. It is necessary to support micro and small businesses, as a way to ensure their survival and to prevent the growth of unemployment. In conclusion, I would like to say that there has been another legislative session and more reasons to question how we produce and how we consume this growth model based on the unbridled exploitation of natural resources and which insists on unlimited growth, as if unlimited also the resources of the planet. For the future, we will expect the country to defuse from the health point of view, but also from the point of view of the rights of those who work, the value of wages, the environmental values and respect for local authorities' decisions, whether they like the government or not the government, whether they like multinationals or the multinationals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u155	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u156	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The state of the nation is marked by two major elements. That is because of the inability we had to ensure the fight against health at the most difficult time in its history, with millions of consultations postponed and millions of medical acts postponed and because we had a government and a Presidency of the European Union that did not hesitate to spend millions on facts, cars, drinks and other luxuries that, today, in a pandemic, would be perfectly indispensable, when they could not support restaurants, trade, housing and tourism, which they define without stopping. It is the paradigmatic example of a political schizophrenia that does not lose to spend money where it should not spend, always support the same ones who do not want to do anything, while those who have worked to build this country, in recent years, are once again out of the equation. But we could not end this legislative session with the presence of the Prime Minister—which is rarely present in this House—without saying that Portugal has passed a democracy full of failures, a liberal democracy for a purely electoral democracy in all reports. Today, less than 16 % of Portuguese people trust Portuguese democracy when it is only less than 3 % they trust the European Union. In Portugal, less than 16% believe in this democracy. The blame is for a government that wants to make changes in the Court of Auditors, control justice and reduce parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u157	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u158	I shall end, Madam President, by leaving only a warning to Mr Prime Minister: do not think that your government is eternal, nor do you think your consulate is eternal, because I risk telling myself that this is the last year that we have you here, under this background, speaking as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u159	Mrs Maria Antónia Almeida Santos of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u160	What about me? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u161	Mr President, the Bureau does not register any applications for participation by the Liberal Initiative. If you don't mind, you will use the next word, Mr. Please, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u162	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago we found ourselves here on the debate of the State of the Nation. We shared words of shock, dismay and uncertainty and also discussed together policies of civil, economic, institutional and public health solidarity. Today, in view of the magnitude of this pandemic, unfortunately, we still have to utter words of mourning here and now. There is memory of all those who have lost and, because that is what we owe them most, we can now speak of the many measures of resilience, of revitalization in all the valences of society that have been carried out by this executive, by this Parliament, with the support and capacity to overcome and remarkable adaptation of all Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way to deny that we have lived in Portugal and in a challenging world, but we cannot deny that we are seeing a reinvented Portugal today. The adaptation that was possible, among other factors, had an increase of 7% of the expenditure on health; more investment and more than 2500 health professionals only in one year; 42% of the full vaccination, one of the essential keys for our complete release; continuous strengthening of social support to families, the ability of motor companies to adapt our economic life, without looking at its typology or dimension. The level of economic growth is already beginning to feel. I believe that this is not the fact that, even in doubt and uncertainty of a pandemic, the option has always been for help and support. The exemplary way in which the National Health Service responded to the pandemic — nor could it be otherwise — was always the criterion of public interest. After all, it was not by chance that whoever created the National Health Service was a socialist. The vaccination campaign against SARS-CoV-2—with an effective percentage of application, as I said and would like to repeat, which has already exceeded 42 %— demonstrates well the Portuguese Government's commitment to the purchase of vaccines and the fight for an ever-increasing tranquillity of life for the Portuguese. And not only in the national context. With regard to international cooperation, particularly with the Portuguese-speaking African countries and Timor-Leste, by the proximity, it has already been announced that Portugal will triple its vaccine supply from 1 million to 3 million doses in the fight against COVID-19. Portugal will fulfil its part in the commitment that recognizes that if there is no global immunization, no country will alone be able to claim that it is truly protected. The pandemic not only does not recognize borders as it also travels through vulnerability. We must never forget this. The priorities are many: ensuring and promoting the coverage of vaccination, recovering the care activity—and, in this respect, evolution is very favourable. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, promoting the robustness of the SNS today has an instrument capable of leveraging reforms, which has already been discussed here, the Recovery and Resilience Plan. A last word of thanks to Portugal, its health professionals, safety professionals, civil society that, in the context of crisis, demonstrated seriousness, solidarity and responsibility. We are today a country that has regained security and confidence. It is in this Portugal that I want to live. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u163	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u164	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As I have little time, I will go straight to the matter. And the point is that Mr. Prime Minister's initial intervention today illustrates two reasons why we are here discussing a nation state that is weaker than what it should be. On the one hand, we have a government unable to take on any mistakes and unable to take responsibility, because, for this government, it has dealt perfectly with the pandemic, there is no great problem with hundreds of thousands of consultations and surgeries postponed and even with the mortality, still to be explained today, that there has been in excess. For this government there is no great problem with the delay in learning that will mortgage the income and future of a whole generation and the dramatic situations of entrepreneurs, independent workers, sector of restoration, tourism, bars, events, culture, discotheques, all of this did not go through the Prime Minister's speech. But if there is difficulty in taking on mistakes and responsibilities, there is ease in making promises to many million, provided they come from Brussels and are invested without criterion, without return, in an irresponsible way, as if this money had not been paid sooner or later by the next generations. Therefore, on the one hand, deresponsibility, on the other hand, irresponsibility, two sides of this government that will prevent us, while this lasts, from making a better balance sheet of the nation's state.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u165	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u166	We need a new way, because that's not how we're going.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u167	Mr Luís Capoulas Santos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u168	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and Mr and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If anything has marked this legislative session — and, of course, the pandemic and the fight against it in all dimensions — it was undoubtedly the fourth Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The six months of the Presidency co-ordinated a remarkable path of redeployment of Portugal in the European bodies, which reached the highest peaks in the election of then Minister of Finance Mário Centeno to the Presidency of the Eurogroup, and in the contribution made by the Prime Minister and the Portuguese Government to the historic decisions of July 2020 under the German Presidency, and finally in an honorable Portuguese 2021 semester recognized as very positive in all European institutions by the generality of observers and, above all, by the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The moment of eloquent proof of this fact was, as I have already had the opportunity to recall on other occasions, the May 31st meeting of the European Affairs Committees conference which the Assembly of the Republic organized and at which Mr Prime Minister was prepared to answer direct questions from Members of all the political families of the 39 chambers of the 27 national parliaments. All the speakers, without one exception, praised, from different perspectives, the Portuguese Presidency, so often undervalued and even blacked out by some — in spite of all, few — in Portugal. For future memory there will be a time to act, with the closure of relevant files, unlocking and advancing other initiatives, which will constitute new Portuguese marks in the history of the European Union. The most relevant will undoubtedly be the Port Social Summit, the Port Social Commitment and the Port Declaration. But they will also be associated with the Portuguese Presidency, among other initiatives, the EU's CIVID Digital Certificate and the implementation of the European vaccination plan; ratification by everyone of the decision on own resources; the instrument of recovery and resilience; the adoption of the first recovery and resilience programmes; the reform of the common agricultural policy; the conclusion of the Brexit Agreement; the conclusion of the agreements with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and the meeting of European Union leaders with India. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is proud to have been part of the contribution which the Assembly of the Republic has also made to the success of the Portuguese Presidency. At the end of this legislative session we must therefore congratulate the Prime Minister, the Government, diplomacy, the Portuguese administration and also the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the Members of the European Parliament. Members for the invaluable service provided to Portugal and Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the end of the Presidency, a political cycle was also closed and another is now opening up. Portugal and Europe as a whole will, from September onwards, develop in an unprecedented and innovative way the future that we want, listening to the citizens, in a process in which the government, Parliament and other social actors must be deeply involved. I hope that, within a year, we will be able to make such a positive assessment of the Conference on the Future of Europe — whose start was also a victory in Portugal — as we are now doing by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I know that there is no lack of motivation and enthusiasm for the government and the PS Members to overcome the challenges of the future, with the same determination and firmness that we face the difficulties of the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u169	Mr Pedro Siza Vieira, Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During this debate of the state of the nation we heard the same idea, which over 16 months has been repeated, that the collapse of the country is imminent, that the State is unable to respond to the circumstances that overtake the country and that the government is exhausted and without a future project. In fact, over the past 16 months, only on the economic front, which I am dealing more closely with, we have heard that the support to companies would be insufficient, that unemployment would be galloping and the dramatic social crisis, that failures would destroy the productive fabric, that public finances would be out of control, that debt would become unbearable and that the European Union would rush austerity. The catastrophe would be there next time. And today we again heard this: about the fall, for which the SNS would not be prepared; about the new restrictions that have to be imposed throughout this year and that would definitely close the affected companies; and now about the withdrawal of public support, these support that have passed from insufficient to indispensable. Now, what the apocalypse announces is the so-called end of the moratoriums, the new "flying boat" of the Portuguese economy. We must not deny the very adverse impact this pandemic has had on our society and our economy. And yet, companies have always persisted, the country has always faced these adversities. The Government has always extended support to the extent of the circumstances and has already ensured that they will remain as necessary. We have already renewed support for activities that are closed, especially for the night animation sectors, we have already developed a solution to support companies in the most affected sectors at the end of the banking moratoriums. We must continue to work, not lamenting the times but working to relaunch the country. We are committed to protecting the income of families, extending the scope of existing social benefits or creating new benefits. Three million people benefited from this support and we have managed to increase the income of families on average throughout 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is precisely what allowed private consumption to recover again during the quarter that has now ceased. We have affirmed our purpose to protect employment and to preserve the productive capacity of companies. As we have repeatedly stated, our objective was not to eliminate the impact of the crisis, but to ensure that companies were able to respond to the demand, so that it could be reborn when restrictions were alleviated. And that's exactly what happened. The EUR 5400 million of support we have lost to companies, banking moratoriums and credit lines have been able to maintain productive capacity. And that is why every breakdown of the product when the restrictions grew, the economy reacts when they were lifted — 13, 3 % of economic growth in the second quarter of last year, another, or perhaps more, in the second quarter of this year. Exports of goods increased their competitiveness and reached values in the first five months of 2021 above those we had in the 2019 homologous period. Private investment has grown in this same period, and Portugal has grown in the rankings of European countries that receive the most foreign direct investment. The job surprised us all. The unemployment rate remained firm over the last 12 months and in June the total number of unemployed registered in employment centres fell to 24 000, i.e. 6 %. The ability to preserve employment and continue to raise it is the most healthy demonstration of the extraordinary flexibility of our businesses and the fairness of our economic policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This week the Banco de Portugal surprised us with a new news: according to the Bank, the financial autonomy ratio of companies increased in the first quarter of this year to 40 %. Despite the breakdown of revenue, the increase in credit to companies through the Action of the Development Bank, even though in many sectors the own capital of companies has still been affected, on average, the profitability and capitalisation of our companies has increased. We will continue to work with companies to strengthen their capitalisation with a measure that is absolutely unprecedented in all national recovery plans, which is a line for the capitalisation of our companies. No other Member State has the same measure. We work with the Development Bank, which here the parliamentary leader of the PSD has attacked, but whose action the governments of the autonomous regions of its party intend to be extended precisely to the companies and territories of those regions. We will continue to work, literally, with hundreds, thousands of companies and researchers, in order to continue to support investment in new, more innovative, foreign-oriented products. We will continue to work on the qualification of our human resources, on the digitization of the country, leading optical fiber throughout the territory and ensuring full coverage of it on 4G and 5G mobile networks, through public resources of national and European origin. We will use digital technologies to transform our Public Administration and improve services to citizens, in an Agenda for the Decade, on a future agenda with Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u171	Three Mrs were registered. Members of Parliament, the PSD, the BE and the CFP, to request clarifications to which the Minister will reply, according to the Bureau, together. To this end, Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, I do not bring any « home», I bring a serious case. For two decades now Portugal has been moving far and wide towards the last position of the European Union. In 2000 we occupied 15. the position on the European GDP ranking per capita. Today, we're on 19th. the position. We are therefore on our way to 27. the last and last. in the last 20 years, we have been overcome by Slovenia, in 2003, by the Czech Republic, in 2007, by Malta, in 2009, by Estonia, in 2017, and by Lithuania, also in 2017. We have only eight countries behind us, three of which are on the verge of overcoming us: Slovakia, Hungary and Poland. When we compare ourselves with the 14 cohesion countries, we see that these countries have grown much more than we do, which explains that they have gradually surpassed us over the past 20 years. Twenty years ago, Portuguese per capita GDP was 85% of the European average; today it is 79%. To find two decades like these, two decades away from the European average, it is necessary to return to the first three decades of the last century, three decades of chaos, instability and war throughout Europe. Now, 60 years of convergence later, we went back to divergence and never left her again. These 20 years of failure were years in which the Socialist Party has always ruled, except in financial emergency situations that its governance has caused. In fact, I don't know any better description of the fiasco of your party's governance. We understand that the PS and its extreme-left partners do everything they can and cannot to spread the reality of this sad situation...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u173	So much ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u174	...and thus ensure that Portuguese society lives on a bubble. To recognize it would be to recognize the damage that its governance imposes on the country, but without recognizing the disease it is very unlikely that we can overcome it. The next few years won't be better. According to the European forecasts, followed by the OECD in 2022, Portuguese GDP will be only 1 % above the pre-crisis level. The European Union as a whole will be 2, 2 % above and the other cohesion countries will be 4, 1 % above 2019. This crisis, Minister, has shown the fragility of the Portuguese economy, which has pushed us systematically—and without hearing a word from the PS and the Government—to the last place, to the poorest place in the European Union. in this crisis we have fallen more than the others, we have had a lower budgetary effort than other countries, we have protected less than other productive fabric and employment and we are recovering more slowly than all the other countries of the European Union. Here is the summary of our sad situation, here is the summary of the socialism of poverty which condemns our collective future to a stagnant country and which does not leave the cake strain. And why? We can talk about the very low levels of investment (where are already the famous pilgrimage promises of 2015 by Mr. Prime Minister! ) or from several bureaucrats which affect citizens and businesses; we can speak of a high tax burden on work, employment, which only prides the socialists, this high tax burden that cannot even ensure quality public services, or a competitive fiscal system, a country that is not attractive to those who want to invest, an inefficient justice system and without consideration for those who invest and create jobs, a State that constantly distrusts citizens and businesses, or the productivity of our economy, stagnated 20 years ago, of the qualifications of our students coming down on the international scene or of permanent disregard for merit, talent and private initiative. Well, there are no miracles, there are no curses. We are not the poorest nation in Western Europe by chance. We do not walk to the last place of the European Union by chance. But we also do not expect the most immobilist and conservative party of the Portuguese political system, the Socialist Party, and the extreme radical left-left that supports it to change. As we have come to say, the continuation of these 20 years of socialist failure, in which the PS has always ruled, except in the situations of financial chaos it has generated, is what we can expect with the continuity of your majority of PS, BE and PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u176	However, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, even though he disagrees with some of the recitals I have made here, because they obviously come out of a subjective and political analysis, I am sure that he cannot disagree with the sad reality of the facts. So I ask you today in this debate about the state of the nation, if you do not put your hand into your mind when you watch this slow journey from Portugal to the tail of Europe, making our country one of the poorest of the European Union. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u177	For clarifications, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, in fact, the state of the economy in the last year and a half has, of course, been strongly affected by the consequences of the pandemic. And, as we have said several times, we believe that it was possible to have chosen a different path in response to the crisis. In fact, the way in which the Government has communicated over this year and a half has turned the support measures to companies of difficult reading and has resulted in confusion and doubt over several of the measures which should have deterrent effects, but which are ultimately protecting the recovery of economic activity. In addition, we also know that the effects of the pandemic have aggravated the weaknesses of the Portuguese micro and small, and we remember, as the Minister well knows, that they represent the overwhelming majority of Portuguese economic fabric. Therefore, the concentration, as we have been criticising, of the public response in bank loans and moratoriums led to an increase in the indebtedness of companies, aggravating a pre-existing problem, as confirmed by a recent study prepared by the ISCTE ( Higher Institute of Labour and Business Sciences ). We also recall the successive alerts, for example, of the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, that the various lines and support measures are not reaching the overwhelming majority of the micro companies they need. We have made this alert often without account, but the Minister, whenever he comes to Parliament, owes many figures on the various million already paid, although they continue to contrast with the reality that is coming to Parliament, particularly of micro and small enterprises. On the other hand, we remain concerned about the maintenance of employment. The Minister mentioned here some information about this maintenance of employment, but there is another face of that currency that the Government is afraid of wanting to ignore. Not only do many companies that have received support have already passed the deadline so they can not fire, and they have already done so, as other large companies, some with profits, continue to use the pandemic as an excuse to carry out collective redundancies — even today, there has been a strike and a demonstration of one such case, of the workers of MEO. But we also have these threats in many other sectors of activity, namely: in the bank, in the energy sector, in the Groundforce or in the TAP. Finally, there are several sectors where the risks of job loss, which are very objective and with a very large value, are real. Finally, the role of the Development Bank has been far from what has been requested, leading to the government itself to create controversy, notably with the appointment of Vítor Fernandes to that Bank, despite the warnings that the Left Block has left, already in February this year, about its curriculum and the dangers that this involved. Therefore, obviously, in view of the situation in question, the Government had no choice but to give up this appointment. Moreover, there is no strengthening of measures to encourage the economy. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, how it is expected to mitigate the effect that this increase in indebtedness on companies may have on the increase in bankruptcy and, consequently, on the increase in unemployment, and whether or not the Government is going to take effective measures that combat the wave of collective redundancies that we are witnessing and which are very worrying. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u179	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Member of the Government, Minister of Economy, in Portuguese society there are still structural deficits in production, scientific and technological, energy or demographic levels, with problems accumulated by decades of right-wing policy, promoted by PS, PSD and CDS. These problems were compounded by the impact of the epidemic and the use of which it has made the great capital to accentuate exploitation, emerging social problems associated with unemployment, poverty, the increase in the price of goods and services, the insufficiency of social support, the difficulties and even the failure of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs ), the various constraints that persist on the realization of numerous economic, social, cultural and sporting activities. The response to the pandemic at the economic level has been marked by benefits for large companies — main beneficiaries of measures such as Layoff — while supporting the MPMEs, which are the basis of Portuguese business fabric, are the ones that create more employment and greater turnover. It is sufficient to see the difference, as a percentage of GDP, between economic support measures in Portugal and other European countries and, within this, the issues of support given to large businesses and micro and small enterprises. Instead, we had bank moratoriums. In business support measures, even in this regard discrimination is maintained under the EAC ( Code of Economic Activity ), whether to have workers or not, from debts to banks or even the type of accounting, as if the entrepreneurs who decided to use the simplified scheme were outside the law. These discriminations violate Article 359. the State Budget Act for 2021, a Budget which also approved the exemption of payment on account, which has to be applied without further subtly. We once again say: it is not the increases in wages that affect the accounts of companies, on the contrary, they are a condition for the growth of domestic demand. And you can ask businessmen of trade, tourism and restoration what was and is the importance of domestic demand for the economy to face the pandemic crisis. The measures which are announced, but which do not reach the ground, the support that comes with months' delay, the support for the managers who are blocked, the energy costs, with the tolls, with the incomes, with the credits, the unfair competition of the multinationals, has brought more despair to the small companies who try to survive this crisis. We're not talking about plan options for the years to come. We're talking about effective decisions to comply with now. The budget which has been approved for this year and has the necessary conditions to respond to the problems. We must move on to practice and give a concrete answer to the demanding problems of this economic fabric, of these thousands and thousands of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and workers. It is about this emergency framework that we are asking you, Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u181	To reply, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transition has the floor, which benefits from the transfer of time from the PS Parliamentary Group to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by responding to Mrs Isabel Pires and Mr Bruno Dias together, since the concerns they have expressed are somewhat similar. We have never said that the measures we are taking to protect employment and the protection of businesses would reach everyone, we have never said that we would go through the most serious crisis of our economic history without impact on business fabric and without the creation of unemployed — 100,000 people have lost their jobs this year. Obviously, this is painful for each of them, but what we have always said was that our concern was that, in the economy as a whole, we could preserve our ability to answer. And the test of the effectiveness of our measures is to know what happens after there are containment measures that restrict economic activity. What we have seen, as I have already said, is that we have had very significant growth, we have had the ability to ensure job creation as soon as the restrictions have risen and that, in my view, is the measure of the success of an economy that is capable of reacting and responding to the increase in demand. In any case, I would like to make it clear to you that during the first half of this year 202 collective dismissal proceedings have entered the Ministry of Labour, which represents a decrease of approximately 45 % compared to the same period last year, and these processes aim at dismissal of less than 25 % of workers than exactly in the same period of 2020. We are obviously concerned about preserving family income. That is why the measures we have taken — many of them, on the proposal of the CFP — were those that have enabled us to extend an absolutely unprecedented social network in our country, which has enabled us to increase the available income of families and we are able to precisely have the internal demand as a recovery engine as soon as restrictions arise. Mr Alexandre Poço, I think you did not hear my speech because, when you did your own invention, you actually mentioned some aspects that I had already mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Private investment increased during this year not only for last year but also for 2019. We have gained more foreign direct investment than in 2019 in this period of 2021 and have grown in the European Union, in relation to other countries. We agree, as Mr Bruno Dias said, that we have many structural deficits in our economy: skills, capital, innovation and knowledge. That is why, Mr President, I would like to say the following: over the last decade, Portuguese exports have increased by 50 % in value, with 37 % of this value explained by exports of high and medium-tech goods. It is remarkable that Portuguese companies have made progress and is precisely to encourage, emphasise, accelerate this process of structural transformation that our PRR is aimed at supporting our companies to incorporate knowledge and innovation, to make better use of our most qualified human resources, to create products and services oriented towards the global market and capable of increasing our productivity. A more prosperous society is a society based on productivity growth, not on reducing wage costs, but on the growth of its differentiation and the use of innovation and the quality of our human resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u183	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : At the end of this debate, it is still worth stressing some of the central ideas that we have brought, from the issues we have raised, of the issues we faced by the government, from the national reality. One of the central issues in the debate, which today marks the national reality, is the realization that the epidemic has come to nude and aggravate problems that have already existed. Our external dependence, the lack of national production, the inability to make use of resources to meet national needs, putting us in a situation of dependence on foreign countries, the control and domain of the strategic sector by economic groups or the difficulties which, daily, deal with liquidation, which over the years has been occurring, are structural problems that existed in the country already before the epidemic and that the epidemic has become even more evident and, in many circumstances, has worsened. In view of this, however, the main message the CFP wanted to leave in this debate is this: it is necessary to respond immediately to the problems which are indeed urgent and immediate, but this response must have a framework and aim to respond fundamentally to the structural problems of the country. In our view, this cannot be done with the same right-wing policy options that created these structural problems. We therefore reaffirm that it is necessary to break with the options of right-wing policy and to adopt and implement an alternative, patriotic, left-wing policy, as we characterize it, that we value work and workers, strengthen and qualify public services and social protection and ensure the public control of strategic sectors, which, moreover, we have brought here with the question of fuels and energy, which are one of the most flagrant examples of the bill that the country pays, not only in relation to its future development, but in living conditions today, by placing in the hands of levers economic groups and fundamental instruments to respond to the satisfying of absolutely essential social and economic needs. The issues related to supporting national production and the productive sectors, the issues related to a fairer fiscal policy, all these elements are elements of an alternative policy by which we continue to beat ourselves. The question you are asking today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, it is to know what options will be made, not only in the immediate response to the epidemic and its impacts, but in the response to these problems and these structural deficits resulting from these years of right-wing policy options that have led us to the situation we are facing. The CFP has left here a message especially for the future, a message for solving these problems, and we will continue to beat ourselves so that these are the options to be realized, because this is the way to solve national problems and to ensure a future of development, progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u185	We are in a position to move to the closing stage of the debate on the state of the nation. You have the floor by the Government, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health and social crisis caused by the pandemic has been a huge challenge for all, people and families, workers and businesses, and has still put great pressure on not only public health but also on schools, social security and other sectors of the state. Now, the first thing we should highlight was the resilience of the Public Administration, which was able to decide and implement the measures that allowed hospitals and health centres to respond, that education should continue, that social support should be processed and guaranteed services of all order, from internal security to civil protection, and that vaccination should be rapid and efficient. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is more than fair to leave here a greeting to all public service workers and social institutions who, at such a difficult time, said and said « present». But we must also withdraw the political lesson. It was once again demonstrated how necessary it is to invest in the social state and public services, because they represent the most effective and inclusive response to the crises we are suffering. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is another lesson that reality gives those who fear to have as a political programme to weaken, dismantle or privatize essential public services. For its part, the economic consequences of COVID-19 required public policies capable of first mitigating the effects on the productive tissue and on the labour market and then accelerating recovery. On both sides, we knew in Europe and Portugal not to repeat the mistakes of the previous financial crisis and sovereign debts. Companies and workers benefited from measures such as simplified layoffs or moratoriums and credit lines, preserved employment and productive capacity and created the financial instruments indispensable to the relaunching of public and private investment, the resumption of demand and the green and digital transformation. I know that this causes strangers to devotees of austerity solutions, who only imagine as a solution to crises the destruction of value, the cuts of income and the degradation of services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the current level of employment, the increase in investment and exports, the improvement of qualification indicators and the low interest rates of public debt are there to show that our policy is correct because it opens the way for economic growth with innovation, wealth and decent work. These are two lessons from the pandemic that we must retain in this debate: in the face of crises, the social state is our best protection and anti-austerity policies are our best answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is, however, a third lesson, as important as the previous one: the recovery of the crisis is both faster and stronger as it integrates the transformation of the economic and social structure, so as to make it more resilient. This is precisely the line of government's conduct: to act by reforming, to act by intervening in critical points, to act to change. Within the Presidency of the European Union, we have led such important reforms as the financing of the economic recovery of Member States, by joint debt issue, the Climate Law or the revision of the Common Agricultural Policy. At the national level, we are acting with will and reformist logic: ordination of the forest, such as the best prevention of rural fires; decentralization, as a key instrument of territorial cohesion; betting on rail and electric mobility, as essential engines of reducing emissions; reform of the higher structure of national defence, to modernize it; systematic digitisation of the Public Administration, to facilitate life for people and businesses; and so many other reforms, not to pretend that any dogmatic cartilage, supposedly universal, is applied, but to direct policy and public resources to areas in which it fights inequality and underpins the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Faced with this agenda of strong social emphasis and bet on growth and reform policies, the right has shown, once again, today, to have nothing else to counter than a repetitive lada to the old style of cases of the day. The opposition proved to be lazy, because it does not focus on the underlying problems and does not present, as it did once again, alternative proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The opposition proved to be monothematic, because obsessively focused on something that is not its competence but, yes, exclusive competence of the Prime Minister, which is the composition of the government, and showed to be inconsequential because, from the restaurant schedules to the fight against misinformation, one day says something and the next day says its opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u187	There's a narrative!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u188	It is recognised, however, that the largest party in the opposition is consistent in two points, moreover, critical of the constitutional system: one of them is the desire to reduce its own electoral losses through the ad hoc change of the electoral system and at the cost of representation of small parties and low-density regions — there, they are always coherent and insistent; the other point where they are always consistent is the permanent fixation, which is still seen in the proposal for a constitutional review, to challenge the independence of our judiciary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying that the time we are living does not allow us to be wrong in our priorities. The time is not to question the Constitution but to comply with the Constitution. The time is not to bring the problems to the political debate. The time is not to assimilate the populist agenda or normalize the hate speech, for example, against the gypsies, but to build political solutions capable of supporting and accelerating national recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the Government's commitment: to build and implement concrete solutions to the real problems of Portuguese people. To this end, we have the critical requirement and the constructive collaboration of all our parliamentary partners in all relevant areas, of the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan to prepare and approve the next State Budget. This is for all of us to have the necessary policy measures and financial resources to advance a clear social agenda for equality, rights and fair remuneration,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... so we have the necessary financial resources to advance this clear social agenda, with policies for growth and employment and with a sense of urgency, reform and action, for Portugal and for Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u189	We have thus reached the end of the debate of the State of the Nation of 2021. I am grateful for the participation of all Members of Parliament, all parliamentary groups, as well as of the Prime Minister and all members of the Government. Before announcing the agenda for tomorrow, Secretary Diogo León has some information to give you about presences outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u190	Mr. President, the name relationship of Mr. Members of Parliament present in this videoconferencing session are: João Azevedo Castro, of the PS ; Emília Cerqueira, of the PSD ; Diana Ferreira, of the PCP ; Ricardo Vicente, of the BE ; Ana Passos, of the PS ; Nuno Carvalho, of the PS ; Nelson Peralta, of the BE ; José Moura Soeiro, BE ; Nuno Sá, of the PS ; Paulo Leitão, of the PS ; Francisco Rocha, of the PS ; João Gomes Marques, of the PSD ; Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS ; Isabel Oneto, of the PS ; André Pinotes Batista, of the PS ; Hugo Carneiro, from PSD ; António Lima Costa, from PSD ; Pedro do Carmo, from PS ; Susana Correia, from PS ; João Gouveia, from PS ; Alma Rivera, from PCP ; Joacine Katar Moreira, Member not registered; João Dias, from PCP ; Antonio Filipe of the PCP. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-21.u191	I would like to introduce the agenda for tomorrow's meeting on Thursday beginning at 3 p.m. At the first point, we will have the timeless presentation of Law Projects No. 592 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Gondufe and the border regions, in particular Ribeira, Gemeira, Gandra, Beiral do Lima and Serdedelo, of the municipality of Ponte de Lima, 593 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amends the territorial limits of the Beiral parish of Lima and Serdelo, of the municipality of Ponte de Lima and 855 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the parish of Labruja and Labrujó, Rentufe and Vilar do Monte, of the municipality of Ponte de Lima. Secondly, we shall have the motion for a resolution No 25 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the extension of the application of transitional measures under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement. Finally, we will have a regiment vote, which is expected to be a faster point, as is obvious. Thank you all very much, until tomorrow and good night. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 24 minutes.]]
