ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 7 minutes.]] from our plenary meeting today there are several important points, one of which has to do with the authorization of the renewal of the state of emergency. In the meantime, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I take account of the withdrawal of draft resolution No 851 / XIV / 2. a ( IL). Then I announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: the Proposal for a Law No 70 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), Bills No. 651 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV), 652 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 653 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), and 654 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) and Resolution Projects Nos 864 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 865 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 866 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 867 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 868 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 869 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 871 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 872 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 873 / XIV / 2. a (BE), 874 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 875 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 876 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 878 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 879 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 880 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 881 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV), 882 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 883 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 884 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) and 885 / XIV / 2. a ( IL). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u3	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I had the opportunity to recall last Tuesday, noted on 26 January the passage of 200 years of the inaugural session of the Extraordinary General Courts and Constituents of the Portuguese Nation, natural consequence of the general elections concluded in December 1820, which determined the composition of our first Parliament, of the Portuguese Parliament. These general elections were one of the most daring steps and one of the most important moments of the Liberal Revolution, whose origins - together with the liberal movements of 1817 and the Synod of 22 January 1818 - can be found in the proclamation heard in the Campo de Santo Ovidio, in the city of Porto, on 24 August 1820 : « (...) A reform is necessary, but this reform must be guided by reason and justice, not by license. Help the order; I took the tumults; I swung the anarchy. We create a provisional government in which we trust. He calls the Courts, which are the organ of the Nation, and they prepare a Constitution that guarantees our rights». « A Constitution that guarantees our rights. This was the first mission of the Constitutional Courts: the adoption of our Constitution on 23 September 1822. A Constitution which has provided for the rights and duties of individuals and enshrines the principle of the tripartite division of powers — legislative, executive and judicial, strictly independent, in which our political system still rests today — giving shape to the idea of a parliamentary assembly as a national body, in which we can find the historical roots of the Assembly of the Republic, the seat of popular sovereignty. Unfortunately, circumstances have not allowed or allowed this date to be celebrated as I would like, but it is my duty, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, and it is our duty, Members and Members, to call on parliamentarians who, 200 years ago, would start the long journey that brought us here: to 200 years of Parliament. Two hundred years back from the inaugural session, we must recall this one that was one of the founding moments of the constitutional regime and the liberal and democratic principles and values of which we have been celebrating since 2018, in a vast and robust programme of commemorations, under the coordination of Professor Guilherme d’ Oliveira Martins, which has all been involved and will extend to 2026, when 50 years of the Democratic Constitution of 1976 is completed. As Professor Miriam Halpern Pereira reminds us, « (...) of the Revolution of 1820 was the courage lesson of the first step». This is the first step that, 200 years later, I would like to remind you here, by doing so at the moment that we are going through one of the most serious crises in our history, and that, despite all the inconveniences it has caused, has not determined the suspension of Parliament. To keep the Assembly of the Republic in effect is also to honor the Constitutional Courts and its Members, who today, 200 years later, here we recall, with pride of their legacy. Thank you very much. [[P.S., BE and P.E.L. applause.]] This statement by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, we then turn to the agenda, which has as its first item the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 24 December 2020 to 7 January 2021. To submit the report, Mr. Minister for Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's report covers the period of emergency determined by decree of the President of the Republic, approved by this Assembly of the Republic, for the period from 24 December 2020 to 7 January 2021. That is why we should highlight the lessons at a time which, with a very general consensus, involved all parliamentary groups, regardless of their vote on the state of emergency decree, agreed on how the celebration of the Christmas period was accepted and the imposition immediately thereafter of more significant restrictions in the period corresponding to the New Year and the following week. This report is an exercise of transparency and therefore does not hide that during this period there has been a significant increase in the number of cases, an increase in the incidence size, which rose by about 50 % — i.e. from 509 to 728 cases per 100 000 inhabitants at national level — an increase in the number of active cases, which increased from 68 000 to 93 000 and, unfortunately, an increase in the number of deaths. There is information that we have at this time and that has led, and will lead, to the taking of particularly demanding additional decisions, in particular with regard to the so-called English variant, which at the time, that is, when that debate was held, had not yet been recorded by the British authorities, since the debate took place, as will be recalled, at an earlier point. Nevertheless, from the weekend after 20 December, restrictive measures were taken on flights to the United Kingdom, which led to the passing of an ever greater number of passengers than 1000 in the days prior to Christmas for a particularly limited number of passengers, always less than 250 per day, provided these restrictive measures were taken. The answer was the courage, response capacity and resilience of the National Health Service, the extension of the network of backup structures, which today reach about two dozen units, about 2000 beds, to support the health response, was essentially the awareness of the Portuguese measures which, at the end of this period, were adopted and which will be deepened in the debate that we will immediately have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u5	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u6	Mr President, Minister, the report presented to us today in the Assembly of the Republic shows two things: impreparation and disloyalty. It shows impreparation in relation to the lethality rate, which in this period is around 1, 6 %, but above all it shows a large waste. On 3 January we already knew that there were 34 cases of the new variant related to the United Kingdom; however, we managed to have fewer airport controls and fewer controls on land mobile borders in that period. It's in the report and we can see it with the analysis of these data. Nevertheless, this report shows us that, despite the ideological blindness that has distanced private and the social sector from the fight against this pandemic, 50 % of the tests were carried out by the private sector. So far they gave him a huge lesson in democracy! But it's important that I end up with the analysis of the homes. During this period, something that this report omits, we had household and others to be vaccinated without meeting the vaccination criteria, in addition to an incredible delay in the vaccination of the elderly in our homes, which no one understands throughout Europe. That's what I should say right away in your report. That's what I should open the state of emergency report with.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u7	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. The state of emergency report should open with this phrase: "We cannot vaccinate the elderly! That was what should have been said in this report.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the Report on the Implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration for the period from 24 December 2020 to 7 January 2021. This debate is at a very complicated time of the pandemic, in which the numbers of infected are higher than ever before and in which the number of dead also exceeds what we could imagine. This is the starting point for an increasingly difficult, demanding and more complex debate. The period under review refers to a time when everyone expected it to be possible, with all care, to be closer to the loved ones from whom they had been away since spring. The holiday period was very lonely for more people than those we can imagine. It was a period of anxiety and suffering for those who lost their jobs, for those who did not know how long they would be employed and for those who saw their family economy becoming more fragile during much of the year 2020, between layoffs, prophylactic isolations and days without working. It would certainly have been a sad period, without the brightness of other years, a period of poverty. It is not surprising, therefore, that despite the month of December having been of greater economic intensity, it has been far below the dynamism seen in previous years. The period of time under discussion shows that the cases of hospitalization during this period have risen and that the number of infected people has reversed the decline trend that has been coming since November. This is another report confirming the relative futility of the state of emergency. More: the most incongruent and confusing measures are taken at the emergency crisis. Now, the government has decided that coffee, which can be sold under takeaway regime, can't do it if it's just coffee or water. Thousands of small establishments have closed their doors, but some are forced by the government to continue selling fleeing the law. If there is no reasonable and comprehensible criteria in the decisions, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, their compliance will be increasingly difficult. We would also like to refer to another issue, which has been raising the concern of many specialists, that it is necessary to care for and care for the mental health of Portuguese people. It is natural that people are concerned about the situation and it is natural that they are afraid and feel insecure, but we cannot help but denounce the true psychological terrorism that certain means are promoting. Informing is a right, questioning is a necessity, promoting panic is disastrous. Also in terms of strengthening mental health care, the state of emergency is useless.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u11	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in these reports, it has been said that the state of emergency declaration has a very limited scope of largely preventive effects, but since the Government has done so, the doubt that it remains throughout this health crisis is precisely where prevention has been. In September, the data showed signs of growth, still slight, which required that we all be alert. They went up expressively during the month of October and, in November, they were already completely out of control. When it should have been prevented, this was not done and therefore, or these data were devalued or the pressure of other ministries surpassed the Ministry of Health. When the virus in the community was controlled, it should have acted differently and after-summer should have been guarded. We remember that in November the government called for a decline in the increase in new cases, but a slowdown in growth is not the same as a reduction in new cases. More than maintaining the Rt (transmissibility ratio) below 1, it was important to halt the transmission of new cases in the community, but government brakes were broken. Speeches that indicate that we could never expect these results are unacceptable. We could and should. We bought fans without cautioning human resources; we approved the hiring of human resources, whose competitions take an unacceptable time; we denied the existence of other strains in national territory, when it had already been given to point out otherwise. Current data show a greater number of cases of infection in women under 50 years of age. Are these people who are more at risk right now? Why? Are these the people who can't be on telework? Is it because of mobility? We remember that the promised reinforcement of public transport, due to the way the government has made the order, has not yet moved forward. The North region has, as a rule, a greater number of cases, but it is also in the North that more tests are done. Do these data correspond to higher levels of infection, higher test capacity, or both? The Centre region, despite having, systematically, fewer cases of infection than the North region, often presents a number of similar deaths; fewer infections, but more deaths. Are there cases of underreported infection in the Centre region? Does the highest mortality in this region have any known justification? Are health services more fragile or under pressure? Finally, I refer to a final concern, that of communication as a strategic factor in combating the crisis. one day, the government says that schools are not closed, even after the alerts made in hearing with the Minister of Education, but then says that schools are already closed and teaching with the digital transition is prohibited because, although this is a pillar of the government, it needs another three weeks to do so. People start getting tired of « today yes, tomorrow no ». The measures must be understood so that they can be implemented. This, in order to have accountability and unity of all, is fundamental to the fight we are currently living in.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u13	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention. In the meantime, I inform the House that we already have quorum to proceed to the vote that will take place at the next item on the agenda. Mr Telmo Correia, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This report corresponds to a critical period, which includes precisely the period of holidays and Christmas, but does not explain what happened or points out the failures that existed during that same period. The report tells us that each sector, the security forces and the others, has done its job. It is true that they did, but the problem was not in the work of those who did it and gave it their best, be it the security forces, be it the health professionals, be the teachers and educators. The problem was — and we know this clearly today — in whom he did not prevent, did not notice, did not organize, had no answer to this situation. And there was no answer in any of these plans. The problem is that there is no credibility in the area of security, as is the case with the Minister of Internal Administration, because it has proved to be a figure hostile to the security forces themselves ; the problem is in which the British strain has now been explained, etc. But that so far denied its existence and its importance—or, then, they gave it the wrong information, which is even more worrying! — as is the case with Mr Prime Minister ; or he is in whom, in health, he now recognizes the existence of a collapse, but did not take the necessary and preventive measures to prevent this same collapse. In schools, for example, planning was completely deficient and ineffective. In health, this report already covers the period of vaccination, so I ask: why is this period not envisaged here? Why does the report not say anything about what was happening, the rules and the work done in terms of vaccination? It is clear, as has already been said, that the great problem we have encountered is not what is in the report, which is a description of who has been working on the ground and surely has been doing his best. The problem is all planning, all previous preparation that has not been made; all that should have been valued and, on the contrary, was underestimated by the government; the idea of the precautionary principle, which was not followed; the experts who spoke and were not heard; the time it took and the hesitations in making decisions; and the inability to respond to this same situation. That's the point. The problem is what is not in this report and there is a government that at one time says one thing and then says another that can take a few hours between an absolute decision, presented as being exactly as it has to be, and another. Between the idea that private people have nothing to offer — do you remember, Minister? — and the request for assistance to private persons may take one or two days. Between the decision that schools can never close and the decision to close can take a few hours. And it is not even a matter of communication, it is a matter of decision-making capacity, but this report does not mirror, so from this point of view, it is not very useful for what we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Prime Minister, who has, however, joined our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the period we appreciate shows that restrictive measures and restrictions on the rights and freedoms imposed by the state of emergency have not contributed to the fight against the epidemic and that the necessary measures, especially in the field of health, are still not adopted, not allowing rapid and effective intervention in the identification of outbreaks and breaking transmission chains, that is, essential measures to deduce the epidemic. in this period, there has been a huge increase in the number of new infections. The experts estimate that between 24 and 29 December, approximately 5000 cases have not been identified, noting that a clear correlation between mobility and transmissibility is not observed and that the high rate of positivity in the tests performed is necessary to increase testing. Since the beginning of the epidemic, the PCP has alerted the public health structure problem and the very few elements of the public health teams. Increased capacity and effectiveness of these teams should be a priority. However, there are delays in conducting epidemiological surveys and in tracking contacts, which has not allowed to break down contact chains. The government can take more restrictive measures with regard to movement, because if these contacts with positive cases are not identified, these chains cannot be broken and the fight against the epidemic will become much more difficult. There is a lack of health professionals in public health teams and we understand that exceptional times require exceptional measures, so we believe that reformed health professionals should have been used to do these screenings, as the PCP has already proposed. Another aspect that marks this period is the difficulty in accessing primary health care, which are essential to ensure the proximity of care. We have recorded numerous difficulties in the presence of consultations, in the follow-up of chronic patients, in the screening of diseases and, of course, this also creates difficulties in referring users to hospitals, when this is justified, as is obvious, for the provision of more differentiated care. The Vaccination Plan against VOCID-19 was initiated, with the administration of the first vaccines to health professionals and workers and home users, and we have already identified numerous difficulties in the vaccination process. The failure to comply with the supply of vaccines by industry, which always favours the business to the detriment of health, requires that the government not be bound by the EU's pharmaceutical agreements and that it seek to diversify the purchase of vaccines so that the vaccination of the population — and, of course, by risk groups — can take the most quickly. In the homes, difficulties remain, rapid intervention teams do not reach or are insufficient and, at the economic and social level, reality is marked by the worsening living conditions of families, inequalities and support that are not enough. None of these problems identified see in the state of emergency declaration concrete measures aimed at strengthening the SNS (National Health Service ), which in fact have the capacity to provide the necessary response in the social protection of workers and in support of the maintenance of jobs and economic activity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u17	Mr Moisés Ferreira spoke for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report we are discussing refers to the period from 24 December 2020 to 7 January 2021, during which the pandemic has worsened, and much, as the pressure on the SNS has increased, and much. On December 23, the number of cases was 4378 and on January 7 had climbed to more than 10 000, plus double. The number of interns increased from 2853 to 3451 plus 20 %, and the pressure on intensive care increased to 536 interns. The worsening of the pandemic in January was likely. More than that, it was expectable, and the Block had already said it here, when we discussed state of emergency renewals. So we also said that it was necessary to demand everything to request, to hire everyone to hire. In fact, the epidemic has worsened, the third wave has arrived and what has not happened and has not arrived was the government's determination to demand the private sector or to strengthen the public response. And it is incomprehensible that all available capacity in the health area, of all sectors, is not already under the command, planning and management of the SNS. It is incomprehensible to continue to bet on punctual, sporadic agreements, on a case-by-case basis. It is incomprehensible to let public hospitals reach almost the breaking point, as happened recently, only after that to activate a nurse in a private hospital. It is not clear the government's obstinacy, which admits sending patients abroad, but does not activate the civil requirement. It was also during this period, from 24 December to 7 January, that the ability to trace and reconstitution of contagio chains was lost. And it was in this period that the percentage of positive tests increased from 10 % to 20 %. This means that if you are running behind the virus, that you are running behind the damage, that the spread is Community, that the daily numbers of new infections will be much higher than those detected and reported daily. That also means two things: that the government should have greatly strengthened the screening capacity, but it did not; and that the testing strategy should have been changed to a massive approach to the population, and that has not yet happened. We know that, from January 7 to here, unfortunately, the situation has worsened a lot, but the issues continue to be the same. Why does the government not continue to place the private under the management of the National Health Service? Why does the government still not hire all the professionals available and why does not the testing strategy change? These are urgent measures, which the Government continues to fail to implement and cannot explain why it has not yet implemented. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u19	Mr José Cancela Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, Secretary of State, Members: Portugal is today the country with more cases and deaths per million inhabitants. There are more than 10,000 deaths and the various experts predict that so many others may die by March. We could lose for the pandemic, just in a year, more than twice as many of those we lost in the Colonial War in almost 15 years. With 10 times more cases and more deaths than in March and with all the indicators to point to the worsening situation, the government decreed a state of light emergency, with measures to penguins, where exceptions are the rule—were more than 50. There are ambulances in queues waiting hours at the doors of emergencies and suspended lives, with millions of pending consultations and surgeries. Health professionals are exhausted and hospitals, on the brink of ruin, improvise, transferring patients to tens. The vaccination plan changes every day, now favouring the holders of political office, with the loss of those who should be vaccinated before, such as the police and firefighters. The country is in a state of affairs, because, unfortunately, the government has failed across the line. Instead of a Council of Ministers, we now have a board of resignations that navigates in half-words, half-truths and half-measures that sometimes, as in the case of schools, even change day by day. This is a confined government, which does not act, only reacts, that does not decide, only manages expectations. And we are soon reminded of Mr Prime Minister's assurance that "there has been nothing missing in the SNS so far and it is not foreseeable that he will be missing". The PSD today has a duty to point the finger and denounce, now, what is wrong, because it has legitimacy for so much: legitimacy because we voted favourably, from the beginning, all states of emergency, without tibias; legitimacy because we were collaboration and we were not opposition; legitimacy because we were next to the national interest. The moment of human suffering we live in is dramatic and the Portuguese do not deserve the desert government of their mission. The PSD therefore wants to make a serious and sincere appeal to the Government. On behalf of the common citizens who support public transport to go to work every day, on behalf of the health professionals who have to choose between those who live and those who die, on behalf of the elderly and the patients at risk who, in the fragility of their condition, yearn for the vaccine and see the priorities exchanged, please rule! They rule with courage and sense of state. They govern according to a greater good that is life, because life has no color or ideology. They govern without ideological prejudices about the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees, because exceptional times require exceptional measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u21	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u22	I shall conclude, Mr President. They govern with patriotism, about what really matters and is important for the country and not according to political and party agendas. They rule, please, because the country can no longer wait to be able to move forward. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u23	For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: We again welcome a report on the implementation of the state of emergency in this House. Let us be clear about what we are considering: the report of implementation of the state of emergency of a specific period, with concrete data, regarding the knowledge we had, at the time that state of emergency was decreed and how it was executed. And once again, the difficult balance between balancing the fight against the pandemic and continuing to prevent the worsening evolution of the economic and social crisis that it inevitably has as a consequence is revealed. The government is always accused, when it prevents it from being killing the economy and when it reacts—because things actually change and it is necessary to react, measures need to be changed — it is accused of being changing the measures, because it has not previously foreseen them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we want a debate with a sense of state and patriotic, as Mr José Cancela Moura was now saying, then let us be serious about the approach and analysis of the data. Mr Telmo Correia, it is not serious to say in this House that perhaps you knew the variant and the British strain before the British themselves. That's not serious! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] And when he said and all the political forces, without exception, said they agreed with the option of the Government and the President of the Republic, that we had measures that would allow us to move to the Christmas court in a different way — all of them recorded — we all, with consistency, accepted that there was a risk, but that we knew him on the basis of the data then known. We know things that we did not know today, Mr President. And it is based on what we know today and what science allows us to make today change the measures, deepening and increasing the degree of protection. That is what we must do. Then we will discuss the renewal of the state of emergency, with more serious measures, with the need to tighten further the measures that guarantee social distance. Why? Because today we know more than we knew at Christmas. And I have no doubt that all members of this House, all members of the Government, all people with decision-making capacity, if they had known today what the consequences of the British strain would certainly have taken different measures. I should like to state in this House that this is not the case that it is an exercise that does not seem serious, in a debate that should deserve, on the part of all, the mobilization of the national interest. However, let us look at some of the things that are reflected in this report and which, unfortunately, are also not true in the way they were presented. There is a lack of measures, for example, with regard to contracts, and delays with regard to the strengthening of means. But it is this very House that, well, determines that the rules of transparency and public procurement must be respected. It is this very House that, well at various times, says that we must not disregard the functioning of the democratic rule of law. The democratic rule of law has deadlines. For example, in the area of education, we have heard a little about the last few days. There has been talk of impreparation, neglect, but since July the competitive procedures are being launched, which were published in October, which were awarded in November and December, and now the contracts are signed. It is the course of democratic institutions! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Telmo Correia, don't do the gesture of someone who's parroting, because that also didn't prestige you while you were in parliament. Just take the documents, just read the contracts, just check that the measures have been taken to enable us to do this debate with the seriousness it deserves and not only use the debate, which all Portuguese are interested in, as a box of resonance of measures that are really not those that are being examined.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u25	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u26	Finally, and because the issue is important, when we discuss the fundamental and fundamental matter of vaccination, we do not give in to populisms and do not once again transform a debate, which must be serious, into something else.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u27	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u28	I will finish, Mr. President. If criteria are discussed, it is based on what is previously fixed. And what is previously fixed is the definition of essential services that are also worthy of vaccination. This is the debate that must take place: it is the definition of this criterion and, in the definition of this criterion, all those responsible are called upon to set this value and, therefore, we do not use populism.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u29	You have already greatly exceeded your time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u30	You are right, Mr President, I will conclude. Let us not use populism and demagogy with something that should be serious and that should mobilize everyone in the same way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u31	You have the floor by the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido, which I take advantage of to greet and greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The moment is serious and therefore the debate must be, as has been said, serious. So let's be serious. Let us be serious about saying that for a year now, the country, not only the government, has been making an overhuman effort to prepare for all the dynamics that this pandemic has brought us. We did so when we identified the needs of individual protective equipment, which we bought and which we argued in a very aggressive market context; we did so when we ordered it and brought it to the ventilator country; we did so when we endeavored to establish exceptional human resources contracting regimes; we did so when we extended the National Health Service laboratory network, covering more than 120 units, between the public and private sectors; we did so when we asked the Portuguese to help us fight this pandemic every day. And that is why, within a serious context, when the United Kingdom notified the World Health Organization in mid-December of the existence of a new variant, we took action. We have taken measures on travel, on flights and have begun to follow, what we have already done, the laboratory results with genetic sequencing. Therefore, the National Institute of Health Ricardo Jorge, soon in the first few days, said that he had not yet identified any of these variants to be circulated, as he later reported that he had already identified some, specifically in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and that they then extended, in their expression in terms of incidence, to the continent. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are dealing with a disease that has mutations and that this new variant has a potential that now begins to be described as more lethal. I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the United Kingdom, initially asked — this is documented — what should be the attitude on the closure of schools in view of this new variant. So, unfortunately, we are dealing with a disease that surprises us every day and presents us with new challenges every day. What do we do? We're not deserting, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to fight every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at this moment, so difficult that the presence of the new variant is already estimated, according to the last report of the Directorate-General for Health, by 50 % in the Lisbon Region and Tejo Valley, we continue to fight. Yesterday, we reached 7 million tests—there were more than 1 million and 300 thousand only since the beginning of this month. We continue to fight with the administration of vaccines, we continue to fight, with the work in the National Health Service, in collaboration with all other partners, as we have always done, with the tranquillity of those who have to respond daily to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, above all, we continue to struggle with weight and solemnity, which at the moment cannot be removed, from which it is not acceptable, it is not even acceptable — on this day so full of symbolism, as has been mentioned by the President of the Assembly of the Republic — that we use death and disease as a political argument. They are not, they can never be, and no one will forgive us for doing so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u33	We will move on to the second item on our agenda, which consists of the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. To open the debate, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We actually lived on dramatic days that no one had ever imagined a year ago. Today there are more infected and more dead, a new English strain of this virus that continues to threaten and condition our lives; there is a vaccine that still takes, despite all efforts, to reach all so that group immunization can be real. Therefore, we all continue to have to live with the mask, which we have already been used to, regularly disinfect our hands to avoid the virus, maintain social distance and with it increasing the missed families, friends, our lives before all this. The days have become different, there are no restaurants to join us, there are no cinemas or shows to take us to other worlds, there are no family meetings that allow us to taste memories and build a future in the nests that made us the people we are. The schools are today empty spaces, where the children's laughs are not heard and where the teenage dreams are postponed, where the teachers' attentive voice is not heard to take the new discoveries, and the gardens have a deafening silence. The mornings have less azáfama, because people don't go to work. Telework became part of the lives of people and many Portuguese reinvented themselves in the world of labor relations. The anxieties of those who fear losing their jobs are many and those who have lost their jobs now face new uncertainties. Health professionals have no hands to measure and, over these months, have saved many lives, in a titanic effort of those in dantesque scenario with an invisible enemy. during these months they spare no effort in the fight against the pandemic, inexhaustible and with enormous sacrifice, personal commitment and sense of mission. Today, Antonio Arnaut would be 85 years old. To him we are grateful and recognized for the resilience and quality of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we do not forget all the professionals who daily expose themselves to risk, who work hard for our most basic and elementary needs to be satisfied in times of pandemic: the municipal workers who ensure the cleaning of spaces throughout the country; the pharmacists; the employees of supermarkets and minimarkets; the bakers; those who bring food to our homes; the firemen; the security forces; and so many that do not stop so much that our lives are less difficult in these times. Yes, the days are different, but everyone, each and every one of us must contribute to this pandemic being overcome! It is in this scenario of more infected, more hospitalized and more dead that we defend and approve the renewal of this state of emergency. Because the pandemic situation demands it, because our collective responsibility is to do everything to save lives, for us, for our families, for our friends, for all Portuguese! This is a state of emergency decree that gives the government powers of greater supervision and, therefore, social behaviour is now so essential that we all help in this battle. Return to my words of March, to the first state of emergency statement: "It is not in any light that, in the house of democracy, we vote for the transitional and partial suspension of the exercise of certain rights, freedoms and guarantees, but this is the moment when this is imposed and the situation so requires. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, no one expected it to be possible to vaccinate so many and so many people today. In Portugal more than 180 000 people have already been vaccinated, especially the front line professionals and the most vulnerable. And the speed with which the vaccine was created — with the overwhelming mobilization of the world's scientific community — echoes the speed with which we want to vaccinate our population. It was unthinkable, a year ago, that the science of this giant step and made a vaccine. What took a decade earlier was possible in less than a year and this gives us more hope to overcome this pandemic. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the importance of the pandemic cannot and should not be the cause of demagogy or political exploitation. Refusing a vaccine may seem popular, but it is, in fact, hiding the risk that, not being vaccinated, it may endanger the lives of others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This health emergency does not forget the economic and social emergency and therefore we respond immediately to the economic emergency so that our industrial fabric will not be crushed. We protect income and employment. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have injected some EUR 22 billion in support into the Portuguese economy in a robust and necessary response to avoid the degradation of the business fabric.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u35	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u36	I'm done now, Mr. President. But to our economic emergency response we also gave a social response because, beyond our differences, the fact is that this pandemic showed that without a strong social state we would not have been able to reach so many Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u37	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u38	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I end by calling again on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group: all of us, Portuguese, are asked for responsibility — the responsibility of staying at home, the responsibility of not using exceptions as an excuse to leave home. The virus does not choose age; the virus is invisible and implacable. We will continue this struggle in the name of Portuguese health! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u39	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio has the floor. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u40	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: If a declaration of the state of emergency is always a painful act for any democratic Parliament, the one we are debating today assumes, for all of us, an increased penorism. Today we are voting for an emergency declaration in a very serious economic, social and health situation. She's a little different from the rear-end situation in a war. The PSD, as an alternative power party to the current government, has from the outset assumed a position of responsibility, rejecting any political use of this difficult task for the Executive. We voted in favour of all the statements of the state of emergency. We have never shared cooperation, whenever it has been asked to do so, and we have always listened to those who seek to push us into a political position of permanent attack on the government, at such a serious moment of our national life. This is the position that we will continue to have, but in the face of the serious failures that the government has shown, it is fulfilling us here and at this very moment, to put a stop to the table and I have mentioned them with all frontality. [[PSD applause.]] We did not at first, because that would be politically dishonest. No one could manage the pandemic without mistakes at its beginning, and no one should criticize when he is not sure that he can do better. [[PSD applause.]] But today, almost a year back, the situation is quite different. Today, the Government has an obligation to respond with much more competence to the problems of the country, because today we all have much more knowledge than a year ago. As the Government has done with regard to the measures to be taken, it therefore obliges us to remind ourselves of the military maxim that 'order and counter-order gives disorder'. [[PSD applause.]] To insist, stubbornly, on keeping schools open, when the overwhelming majority of the experts had already demanded their closure, shows a lack of courage to do what is required to be done at every moment. Not having prepared schools for digital classes, after, in June, having cried out, with fanfarre, that they were a success, evidence of excessive obedience to marketing and lack of respect for our young people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u41	And to ban private schools from doing so is envy, it is to impose, for their incapacity level, on all those who have done what the government has not been able to do. [[PSD applause.]] To have patients dramatically held in ambulances for lack of places in hospitals and to continue to keep a hospital completely ready almost two years ago is to lead theimosia to an unacceptable end, in the chaotic situation that the National Health Service is living. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] To try to relieve their responsibilities by repeating, until it is true, the lie that, for example, the PSD defended the opening up of restaurants beyond 13 hours, it is at least an act of ingratitude before those who have so far worked to cooperate and even to save in criticisms to whom they already deserve so much. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall once again vote responsibly in favour of the statement of emergency state. We will continue to provide the Government with all the tools to combat the pandemic it needs. We will continue to give up easy and permanent political attacks, which no longer aim at seeking party dividends at the expense of the difficulties that the country is experiencing. Today they remain here — right at the right time and in front of them — the criticisms that the government's excessive failures force us to make. But here too, with this same frontality, is the continuity of our cooperation commitment, in respect of the highest national interest. For the sake of Portugal, we hope that the Government of Portugal is worthy of it. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u42	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u43	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are witnessing a disaster scenario in health services. The third wave of the pandemic is being brutal, in the new infections, in the demand for hospital admission and intensive care units and in the number of deaths. There are already more than 10 000 deaths by COVID-19 in Portugal and, for all victims, all families and friends lend our solidarity and the greatest sense of regret. « The situation is serious », Mr. Minister of Health said recently. It's true, above all because things are worse and you don't know when they'll get better. In fact, it is very likely that they will get even worse before they get better. The renewal of the state of emergency is only and only one more request from the Government to the Assembly of the Republic to have the conditions to face this difficult moment. And, as in the past, the government will have these conditions to face the pandemic and the crisis that accompanies it. Will the government be able to make good use of this trust? That is our question. Aid applications in the SNS are repeated. There are missing means, especially health professionals, in particular nurses. The government has a mandate to require private professionals, but it continues to protect. It does not give the SNS the ability to manage, just to make punctual contractualizations. There is no preparation, it runs behind the damage and instead of defending health professionals lets them flee to the private or to the foreign. The 1000 nurses — I repeat, 1000 nurses — who emigrated in 2020 are a huge lack, in the suffocation that is now living in hospitals. There is a lack of preparation to deal with the closure of schools. Would it not be here today that the government should say how it intends to frame the return to classes in the new state of emergency? Yeah, you don't get it. You don't realize why it doesn't give stability to schools, students, teachers, or families. It is not clear, because schools should, from the beginning of the year, be prepared for distance learning and still have no computer equipment at their disposal to do so. It is not clear why this assertion of a plan now for the future is not in the Government's perspective. And to families, mothers or parents who have to stay at home to take care of their children, there is no horizon for this perspective and it is not even more natural to the current Layoff regime than the support that exists for those who are forced to stay at home because it has nowhere to leave their children. Today, where the Government decides to pay 66 %, it does not realize why it does not pay 100 %, exactly the same as it would pay if it were the layoff of a private company. It is in this stability, in this preparation and in this prevention that the government is failing. But now we also remember that the government does not respond, alerted to this effect, to those people to whom unemployment benefit ended in November or December and who have no access to any social support. And, as we all realize, it is not confined and with a paralysed economy that these people can get to work. You don't realize how these people stay behind, without the support they should have. And the question was whether, if there was money to help these people, we were able to respond to the 2020 budget implementation yesterday: in view of the estimated deficit, the government has a target of EUR 3500 million below the forecast. In other words, in the face of the maximum crisis, the government is spared, lacking support for families and the economy. It is a whole Supplementary Budget to be executed, it is support that is delayed or that is not even legal, but that is needed for people and for the economy, or it is public investment to be made. That is why, because the Government has been slow to do what is indispensable, that the Left Block, recognizing the need for the state of emergency, cannot vote in favour of its renewal. Our abstention is a yellow card to a government that, to face one of the worst crises that we have ever faced, always choose the minimal answers, the savings, those that cost both families and the economy and so much in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u44	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u45	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These are two of the main priorities that reality imposes, in view of the seriousness of the situation we are going through. Priority to strengthening means to identify, isolate and test contacts and priority to social support and economic activities. In the health plan, it is important to use the full capacity of hospitalization and hospital response, either in general or in intensive care. However, it is not inexhaustible. More than increasing physical structures, such as campaign hospitals, beds and equipment for the treatment of acute patients, it becomes evident that we are very close to the limit of health professionals. It is not possible to train doctors, nurses and other professionals one day and it is not sustainable that those who exist work 24 hours. In terms of health, the priority must therefore be to stop the spread of the epidemic. Contact reduction measures — such as the so-called "containment" — may make a significant contribution, but on their own they only do not arrive, nor can they last indefinitely. The immediate and future solution that needs to be considered is the strengthening of the means to identify, isolate and test contacts. Strengthening public health teams, recruiting and mobilizing professionals to make contact with those who are infected faster and to identify their risk contacts, isolate them and test them, breaking transmission chains. The same applies to health protection measures for workers of essential services which must be ensured, whether in their travel to work or in their own workplaces. We also insist on vaccination and on the need to ensure compliance with the vaccination objectives that were defined. This is also a central aspect of the response which needs to be considered for the timely resolution of the health problem we are facing. Portugal cannot fail to vaccinate because it is limited to contracts made by the European Union with pharmaceuticals which do not have sufficient production capacity and do not accept subcontracting the production of vaccines or sharing or suspending patents. It is necessary to ensure the diversification of the purchase of vaccines in order to achieve the vaccination objectives. At the economic and social level, the support provided for in the State budget for 2021 must come out of the paper and begin to respond to whom they need. contrary to what happened to the Supplementary Budget in 2020, there is in the State Budget for 2021 measures that need to be implemented so that the problems ahead are overcome. It is therefore necessary to make payments to 100 %, to extend the unemployment allowance and to increase its minimum value, to support micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, partners, workers with green, informal or precarious receipts. The sectors of restoration, hotel or culture, which are once again fused with the effects of health measures, need support in time and time and without restrictions, as was decided in the State Budget for 2021. The families of workers who are at home in telework must have access to support for the family, especially when it comes to essential service workers. It is unacceptable that a worker in telework, since he is at home, can also take care of children at the same time, leaving the family unable to access family support. In terms of education, health security conditions must be created to resume present education as soon as possible, the only one that guarantees adequate learning conditions and whose lack has irremediable consequences for the current generation of young students. When, in March 2020, people were responsible for fulfilling the measures imposed by the health authorities, the President of the Republic, with the agreement of the Government, which should determine the state of emergency. After that, the country needed health protection measures, SNS strengthening measures and social and economic support measures, in particular measures enabling economic activity to be resumed in conditions of health security, all the attention of the President of the Republic, with the agreement of the Government, continued to focus on restrictive measures, restrictions on movement, schedules, the general functioning of economic, social, cultural, sporting and other activities. When the health situation began to worsen and it was necessary to give priority to strengthening the SNS and the health security measures necessary for the development of social and economic life, the President of the Republic, with the agreement of the Government, again resorted to the state of emergency and to new restrictive measures. They are now afraid that the state of emergency and restrictive measures are not understood and complain that the restrictions are not producing the necessary effects. More than the state of emergency, what is needed is to promote the rationality of consciousness and the responsibility of attitude, ensure the response of health services and SNS and adopt the necessary health protection measures for the functioning of society, because our future cannot be permanent confinement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u46	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u47	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us debate and vote today on the tenth emergency state renewal decree, and the situation is serious. However, its foundation causes some strangeness. Of course, because, although in its recitals, it supports its need, and I quote, 'in the lack of rigour in implementing the measures' — of course! — experts have also said that the increase is due: the way the second and, above all, the third vacancies have been underestimated; no effective measures have been taken at Christmas; the confinement light; the sales to the post office; and the government's hesitations. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] And specialists have always said that confinement is directly proportional to the reduction of contagions. The question of schools was the greatest example of disorientation. Earlier today, we heard Mr. Prime Minister say that people did not realize that until the schools were closed, it was necessary to confine themselves. Excuse me, Prime Minister, did people not understand or did you not want to understand? Oh, my God! I told you that, with 2 million people circulating, there was no confinement possible! Were the people who didn't understand or were the government that couldn't understand? I asked the Government on 8 January at the meeting we held, whether the English version of the virus and the reports that it was more transmissible, especially to younger people, were relevant. The answer was that neither the English variant was relevant nor the schools were places of contact. How is that possible? Oh, my God! We are all reminded of Mr. Prime Minister's theimosia, saying that schools could not close by the irreparable damage that this would cause to the students. Now, it did not take 48 hours to change everything, having passed from irreparable damage to students to the total prohibition of teaching. The government, who promised a computer for a student, and failed, who promised to have everything ready for online teaching, and did nothing more than fail, has this arrogant attitude never to recognize their mistakes, which is worrying. It's a government that has a problem with the truth. We saw him in the case of the European Public Prosecutor... [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u48	...and we've seen, now, with the schools. It is a government that makes propaganda every time something goes right. But when something goes wrong, it's nothing with him — there, it's the Portuguese's fault, it's from the British strain of the virus, it's from the cook, it's from the world in general! Open... Speaking of British, the British Prime Minister, after everything they said about him, said yesterday this very simple phrase: "I take full responsibility". What a difference and dignity! This was the government that refused to contract with the private and the social sector,... [[PS protests.]] ... that proclaimed the self-sufficiency of the SNS, which took refuge in the ideology to please the extreme left, which required the request. We are now witnessing a worrying situation in the Amadora-Sintra hospital. Fortunately, the situation was controlled, because there was also help—and in particular, the Hospital da Luz, which opened a nurse to receive patients, and the hospitals of the CUF and Lusíadas had already done so. In other words, the private are helping, while here they are attacked on the left—and helping without demands, or wild occupations, and without their doctors and professionals being vaccinated, like firefighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u49	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u50	I don't want planning! All those who occupy these beds are people and they're Portuguese. We saw in Lisbon what we had seen in Manaus. It's just, this way, it's the people's fault, it's never who's in charge. [[PS protests.]] It has to be explained — and it is important to realize — how we have passed the ‘Portuguese miracle’ to the worse parts of the world, how we are about to ask for international help. Continuation of PS protests. A short time ago — Mrs. PS Members, who are so excited, the PS bench spoke here in the « chance of the virus to find such a capable government ». The chance of the virus? Oh, my God! The truth is, at the worst moment in our history, in pandemic, we have one of the most incapacitated governments of our democracy. In the Internal Administration, in justice, in education, in health, fragility is evident — our randomness! Continuation of PS protests. What's missing from the government? He had the permanent support of the President of the Republic, he had, as has been said, the collaboration of the major opposition party and even we critics, never failed with the vote to make the measures viable. Those who voted against — PCP, Arrival and Liberal Initiative — were always minority. And if we understand the difficulty in managing a situation like this, victimization has limits. in this sense, it is not acceptable what we heard by Mrs. Minister of Health to victimize herself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u52	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The Minister has come to say that criticising the lack of planning is criminal. Those who do not bear criticism cannot rule in democracy, however difficult it may be, and I understand that it is. If criticizing the government is a crime, I confess: guilty!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u53	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u54	In Moscow, it is a crime to criticize the government. In Pyongyang, it is a crime to criticize the government. In Portugal, it is not. In Portugal, it is a crime to abandon people! That's crime and that's unacceptable! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u55	Mr André Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like a moment of peace to hear Mr André Silva from the PAN. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u56	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health situation we are living in is disastrous and its seriousness continues to grow, despite the efforts and serious measures already taken. Portugal is the country of the world with the highest number of new infections per day. The lack of control of the new infections by COVID-19 is putting the National Health Service under unprecedented pressure, with professionals exhausted after 10 months of combat and with intensive care units to burst through the seams. We've reached the limit. The increase in case transmission is exponential. There is no control in the community. Human resources are lacking to respond to this situation, particularly in the National Health Service. The mathematical simulations tell us that it will take at least 45 days of confinement so that the effort being made by people can be effective. To get out of this cycle, to reduce and reverse the numbers of this third wave, certain and difficult measures must be taken, which maintain the distance, which minimize the contacts and control the exits. But this general confinement only makes sense if we are all on the same boat, so that the effort is worth it, so that we do not continue in perpetual confinement/defination cycles, with the high social, economic and emotional impacts that we already know they are taking. We are aware that the instrument of the state of emergency cannot be used lightly, since it leads to the restriction of fundamental rights and has severe consequences on the economy, life, health and emotional well-being of people. But considering this health framework and the result of the forecasting models presented, there are no alternatives to the state of emergency declaration. The NAP will therefore vote in favour of its renewal. But all this suffering has to be worth and therefore we demand even more from the government. The evolution of the social situation is quite worrying, especially when we consider the problems affecting the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as the elderly, chronic patients and people with disabilities, while increasing levels of unemployment and situations of poverty and social exclusion. It is urgent for the Government to move forward with the additional measures for companies. There is an urgent need for support for the treasury expenditure of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises or for the creation of an exceptional scheme to increase staff expenditure. Only in this way can we avoid an acceleration of insolvency and the loss of people's income. But it is also important to draw the Government's attention to the problem of mental health. If already before the crisis was an area with a lack of investment and resources, it must now, more than ever, be a vital bet for Portugal and for people's lives. The sustainability of the country cannot be done without a psychological, emotional and physically healthy population. The NAP knows that it is possible from now on to prevent and caution the potential impacts of confinement on the mental health of populations. This is done by ensuring the means and resources for timely monitoring of all situations, minimizing the risk of worsening symptoms. Mr. Prime Minister, for almost three years it is about to complete the competition for the hiring of 40 psychologists for the National Health Service. The impact on mental health is not confined to the duration of the health crisis, its effects will be much more extensive and lasting. We cannot close our eyes to this reality. It is necessary to act now, prevent in order to minimize the risk associated with mental disturbance of confinement and plan to integrate resources and resources into the National Health Service, schools and universities, businesses and homes. But there are other impacts that the pandemic has brought, perhaps more hidden, not spoken. The preliminary results of the study of the National School of Public Health are very worrying: 34% of the respondents reported having been victims of some kind of domestic violence for the first time during the pandemic, a scourge that seems to have affected mostly the less educated people, with economic difficulties or who have been harmed in their jobs. Even more worrying is the fact that the overwhelming majority of these people have not asked for help because they feel embarrassed about the situation, fear of doing it or because they consider that they would not have an answer. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other Members. Member of the Government, despite the necessary confinement, we cannot push towards the path of fear and silence that currently live at risk. With this renewal — which the NAP accompanies — it is necessary to ensure social responses to the protection of victims of domestic violence, children and young people, of people with greater physical and psychological vulnerability, such as elderly and disabled people. A country worthy and fair does not leave any of its citizens, much less in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u57	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u58	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last renewal of the state of emergency, we ended our intervention by saying: "There is an emergency to protect the health of Portuguese, to maintain jobs, to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to invest in culture, to change policies in the protection and conservation of nature. What is needed is for the State to respond swiftly to this emergency. Do not keep on seeking. ” Here, in the discussion of another renewal of the state of emergency, the question arises: What is the use of the state of emergency? We will try to contribute to the answer to this question in three or four aspects, the first of which has already been mentioned times and times without account: the state of emergency has not so far been necessary to take the necessary urgent measures to strengthen the SNS. And, say, for these even there are means that have been approved in the State budget: hiring of personnel; immediate investments; strengthening the response capacity. For none of this, the state of emergency is required. But this is the central issue of today's day, which needs to be answered with the speed we spoke about 15 days ago. The second aspect refers to the costs of confinement for families, particularly in electricity. The Portuguese state obliges hundreds of thousands of people to stay at home, transferring business and state costs to families in many areas, without forcing companies to take on all the costs that were theirs. However, housing in Portugal is not prepared for this situation and, in particular, for the low temperatures that have been felt. The state of emergency is not necessary to answer this simple question. It is necessary to reduce energy costs in order to make the life of families bearable. At a meeting with the Government, the Greens proposed this very thing to Mr. Prime Minister, who responded to his understanding of the problem. After three weeks, we asked: how, how and how? Yesterday, the Minister of the Environment said that the bills of January and February will already reflect this measure. If « the preacher does not miss the truth», the questions remain: how and how? In the debate of the State budget, the Greens proposed that EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), a company with profits to hundreds of millions, should also contribute to the costs arising from COVID, but this proposal was rejected. And they do not respond to energy efficiency, because measures to improve it should have been taken long ago, but their results will have no immediate effect and the Portuguese need help now. The third aspect is the response to parents who have to stay with children at home because schools are closed. The solution the government has for them is to stay at home and lose a third of the order because they are considered in family care. Well, they're home because the state compels them. On the other hand, parents who are working at telework have to stay with their children and fulfill their work obligations, without even having the right to invoke family assistance. How can you be eight hours in front of a computer or a phone and have to take care of one, two or three children? Not only are the parents workers in conflict with companies, because they cannot do their service, like the workers parents in conflict with their children and with themselves, because they feel they fail in family support. Where is the state of emergency to answer the questions here? One last aspect is the attention that it is necessary to give to the most unprotected. The latest data indicate the increase in domestic violence, whether on women or on the elderly, and also indicate the impacts on the elderly who live alone, who are increasingly significant. The situation we are living in implies a greater permanence of victims and abusers in common spaces, with very serious consequences. The follow-up services of these situations were already limited before and have even more difficulties now to follow all cases. Here too, the state of emergency serves no purpose. If the state of emergency serves nothing, in addition to limitations of freedoms, which the Portuguese demonstrated that, realizing its scope, they would accept without impositions, the exit should once again be the emergency in the response of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u59	It's enough time. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We understand today, with this decree, that the closure of borders was the key to what we should have done long ago. And now, that we think of closing borders and that this decree allows us now to look at the best examples and that it turns out that all the best examples have closed borders, we realize that we have been wrong. But we also realize that we have been wrong when the others are closing our doors, as is the case with Germany, which now prohibits anyone from entering from Portugal. It couldn't have been worse! Let me also say that we are not only the worst example of the world in new cases, but also — and, Dr. Rui Rio, let me disagree with you — that it was not because of the government's lack of courage that was banned from teaching at a distance but, yes, because the computers that were promised were never brought, and we know today, by the press, that they were bought eight months after they were promised. That is why distance teaching has been prohibited, so schools have been closed and that is why it has been zigzag between teaching in Portugal, playing with parents, children and young people, at one of the most dramatic heights in our history. But, to our shame, others come from outside to support us. We have German doctors and other European countries to say: "They need help, we are here! » The old strategy of hand extended to the world, and to Europe, which should shame us all, at this time of struggle against the pandemic! Worse : we give and we will vaccinate politicians, when the Portuguese, outside, have not yet been vaccinated, when health professionals have not yet been vaccinated, when firefighters have not yet been vaccinated and when police haven't been vaccinated. There's only one word: shame! That is what we can say in this House when we vaccinate politicians in front of citizens who are dying in the front line. In the midst of all this, Mr. Prime Minister — who is here in front of this House — Portugal is able to come down in the Perception of Corruption Index and have the worst performance since 2012! Shame! Shame on a country that can't fight the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u61	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u62	Mr. President, I will finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u63	Stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President, with a phrase from Socialist MP Joana Sá Pereira, who said "the virus had, I would say, the chance to find a capable government in front of it". Let the evaluation of this sentence remain for history in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u65	You have the floor for an intervention by the IL, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u66	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every renewal of the state of emergency the panorama of the pandemic in Portugal is more gloomy. of the first wave's "Portuguese miracle", we have moved to the worst country in the world — I repeat, the worst country in the world — in recent weeks, with regard to infections and fatalities by millions of people. A health system to burst through the seams and a pandemic tracking system unable to control transmission chains. A government lost in its hesitations and incompetences, demonstrating to those who want to see that it has no idea what works in combating the virus and therefore confines everything, prohibits everything, deepening a social and economic crisis that will ultimately cause as much damage as the pandemic. But worse than all the mistakes committed is the inability to admit, to take responsibility and to catch up. Those who dare question the government's strategy are for the PS government — imagine! -, criminals. Those who have brought us to the worst country in the world in combating the pandemic do not admit to being questioned, do not admit to being criticized, do not admit mistakes or responsibilities and, most importantly, do not admit that the strategy needs to be changed. And the criminals are those who criticize? Oh, my God! Immediately, the priority is to save lives, to use the full capacity of the existing public, private and social hospital structure. But I must insist here that we should be preparing for the next phase, because there will be a moment, which is expected as close as possible, in which we will have to definate. at that time, we can no longer show the same shocking lack of preparation, because, if we do, defining will only be the interval until the next confinement. Therefore, it is important to recognize the mistakes made, change the responsible ones and adapt the strategy. We need to make the proactive testing policy to manage transmission chains, massify rapid tests, including a random component, to reduce asymptomatic contagio. We must ensure that the vaccination capacity never, but never, will fall short of the vaccines that are now available. We must verify the immunity of about half a million recovered, a number of Portuguese people who may be the basis of economic recovery or a need for health support. We must ensure that the structure of monitoring this fight is politically and technically competent, which the reality to which we have arrived shows, of course, that it is not. That is what we have conveyed to the President of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. He's finished his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u68	... so that these successive renewals are no longer blank checks to the current strategy followed by the government. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that this renewal decree follows the lines of the previous ones. It is true that the Minister of Education puts in order that he thinks well to level education below,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u69	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u70	... but also removes an entire article dedicated to the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms of the Portuguese. If it wasn't important, why was it there? And if it's important, why did it come out?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u71	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time by almost 50 %. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u72	Because this new decree does nothing to encourage the change of strategy, we will vote against the renewal of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u73	It is the time of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira's non-registered Member to intervene. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, it was the International Day in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust. I remembered Aristides of Sousa Mendes and also recalled the threat of fascism and fascist violence. Today is exactly a year ago that André Ventura sent me to my country of origin. This house was completely quiet. Then, in an environment of sanitary pandemic, the same individual tried to insinuate the need for confinement of the Gypsy community. They heard voices up high. The municipality of Castro Verde recently insinuated an ethnic confinement, by mistake... It happens that neither the state of emergency nor any pandemic should allow discrimination and violence against any citizen, regardless of their origin, regardless of their ethnic-racial origins. I would also like to recall that it is in environments of vulnerability that we must, as never before, fight for humanitarian values, that we must fight, as never before, for equality and for the possibility that everyone should have due recognition in society. I would like to remind you that, at the moment, we want, yes ma'am, strict confinement. But a strict confinement of poverty, social exclusion and lack of housing, which makes no community, no individual or citizen in unhealthy situations. We want strict confinement of racism and all discrimination, strict confinement of poverty, strict confinement of domestic violence, populism and political tactics in times of pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u75	This is the time of Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues' unregistered speech. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We see ourselves again in the circumstances of having to debate the renewal of the state of emergency and it is no surprise that I will vote again in favour. There is no way to deny this health crisis and we must join forces to fight it. However, it is important not to forget other scourges. I'm talking again about domestic violence. With regard to another debate on the renewal of the state of emergency, it had already drawn the Government's attention to the fact that the instability caused by COVID-19 had a particular impact on women who, fear of exposing their children to the virus, because of fear of unemployment or economic crisis, were particularly vulnerable to situations of domestic violence. And I come to reiterate that concern. Yesterday, a study was released at the National School of Public Health, which reveals that one third of respondents were victims of domestic violence for the first time during the pandemic. According to the same study, there was an increase in cases not officially reported, because most of the victims did not seek help or report, because they considered it "necessary" that "would not change the situation" and because they felt embarrassed. And the most worrying is that, according to data from the Public Prosecutor's Office, by 1 September 2020, the number of registered complaints increased by 8 % compared to the same period in 2019, resulting in an average of 40 domestic violence complaints per day. In addition to the most serious cases, which culminate in the murder of the victim and whose number we also know is not residual, we are still in January and we already have two deaths. The confinement has turned out to be hell for the victims. Our focus must be on resolving the pandemic, but we cannot abandon the most vulnerable, especially when we know that this health crisis has accentuated economic and social inequalities. We must not forget the elderly who live in homes and whose quality of life and health has worsened in the current context, but also those who live alone and who are now deprived of any support. We cannot forget children and the importance of strengthening the first line of signage of cases of the protection system, since there are no regular contacts with teachers, who often detect situations of abuse or neglect. I cannot but say that confinement, which is necessary for public health reasons, has a high impact on the welfare and mental health of all, which must have an urgent intervention by the Government. Finally, I appeal to the Portuguese people who stay at home and those who necessarily have to leave to comply with the guidelines of the DGS ( Directorate-General for Health) and the rules in force. The more satisfied we are, the faster we will return to normal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u77	To conclude the debate, the Government has the floor, through Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today in the tenth debate on the adoption of a decree by Mr President of the Republic, establishing another two-week period of emergency. We are following a period which, since November, has brought us into a very difficult fight that has mobilized the whole Portuguese society. But we are at a particularly critical moment, when the global dimension of this pandemic reaches evidence that prevents and makes scandalous all the demagogy and populist use of the global tragedy that we are living in. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This week — some of them will have been distracted — a total of 100 million people have been infected by the pandemic, and in Europe more than 30 million people have been infected. It is this dimension that today mobilizes a global response from the World Health Organization to that which is the European response which, throughout this week, has been taking more demanding measures that will establish the limitation of contagions in the European framework, restricting the movement of people. It is in this framework that we are also having this debate in Portugal. That is why, once again, we have this state of emergency declaration adopted by more than 90 % of the members of the Assembly of the Republic, mobilising all the sovereignty bodies — the Presidency of the Republic, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic — I cannot fail to mention how the right is to follow this debate, halfway between amnesia and the spirit of the football commentator who, on Monday, knows all that went wrong in the game last Sunday. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When a sense of national responsibility and cohesion is required, the amnesia of those who forget that two or three weeks ago were here to question the opening of restaurants only during the weekend morning,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u79	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u80	... and that, yes, Mr. Rui Rio, they said that either in trade or in restoration was fundamental, at least, to be open by 3:00 p.m. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we said here that the alternative was between that and what we have today — the global confinement which, unfortunately, we will have to follow, as many European countries do. That is why, too, it is very strange that today, those who have called into question the limitation of contagios, adopted in the framework of measures in previous times, come to say: "But why did they not take different measures at Christmas? Why have they not adopted more restrictive measures in previous periods? », forgetting that there is no memory that any of these defended either at Christmas or two or three weeks ago the adoption of any more restrictive measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this picture that today we are confronted with what even Prime Minister Boris Johnson was aware of during the Christmas period. We are confronted with the scientific evidence of a projection dimension of the so-called "British variant" which today is responsible, on the basis of the best available information, for 30 % of the new cases at national level and for 50 % of the cases in the Lisbon and Tejo Valley area. That is why, when we see a terrible increase in the number of deaths, an increase in the number of cases and an increase in active cases that have exceeded the 170 000, i.e. doubled since the beginning of this month, we must courageously take the appropriate and necessary measures at this time. That is why all means are mobilized: the means of health of the Armed Forces; the means, by agreement, of the private sector; the means of the social sector, such as, in fact, have already been made,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because, as early as November, there were agreements with either the social sector, or with the private sector, mobilizing means, beds, for the response to the COVID-19. That is why a network of backup support structures has been mobilized, which now has more than two dozen units in operation in all districts of the national territory and which already exceeds the 2000 beds available for positives that do not lack hospital admission, but do not have housing conditions in their homes, nor to return to residential units where they are installed. That's why we've passed the 7 million tests. And, yes, we are from the European countries that test most of their population. And, yes, it was in the period immediately after Christmas that we started vaccination, that until today, at 13 hours, for those who have doubts or who think it is secret the progress of the vaccination programme, allowed 249,337 first doses and 53,652 second doses to be allocated. No, it is not secret, it is a great involvement that has as a clear priority health professionals — 71,600 already vaccinated — and people in the homes and their professionals — 165,000 already vaccinated! Say the right, which comes here to criticize the vaccination program, who would leave behind: were the people in the homes? Oh, my God! Were they the health professionals? Oh, my God! [[PSD Member Protests José Cancela Moura.]] It is this clear answer that they have to give regarding the vaccination program,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...that will now advance now, yes, for firefighters, yes, for people with comorbidities, yes, for people over 80 years old. In time of national cohesion, in time to fight the pandemic is not time for demagogy. That is also why, in the answer we have to give, we protect the right to education, but we protect young people, so we anticipate the educational interruption and we are making the necessary preparation so that, following the period of educational interruption of Carnival, distance education may be the alternative to the impossibility of present education. Telework is also part of this response, whenever possible, and not the flight to telework, increasing the risk of contamination, so that there is a limitation of activities, which is necessary to reduce contagios. And for this, adequate social and economic support is also needed. And, yes, with transparency, we assume that the pandemic caused a fall in GDP (gross domestic product) of EUR 15 billion last year, but it is also true that 22 billion of economic support has been mobilised. This was the national bazauca, which did not wait for the European bazauca, which we want to speed up this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we also responded to the most fragile and it was not the right that helped in this response, it was those who approved the State budget, those who made it possible, who extended the unemployment allowance in another six months and allowed the allocation of extraordinary social support to those who did not have access to the unemployment allowance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And in this picture, yes, we're not going after others. As we have already limited the flights from the United Kingdom and, in the meantime, we have suspended these flights, we have already suspended flights in connection with Brazil and we will contribute to the European decision limiting flights between risk areas throughout the European Union and requiring testing and quarantine by joint decision at European level. The Government will also, within the framework of a national strategy, adopt the measure of limitation of travel abroad of national citizens in the next 15 days to protect national citizens, to contribute to the reduction of contamination and limitation of the pandemic, limiting air, river or land exits except in exceptional cases. It is this mobilization, in which, as a sign of hope, the vaccine advances, which is fundamental around health professionals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u81	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u82	... around the whole Portuguese society, and also to the Assembly of the Republic, the voice of all Portuguese, it is not enough to legitimize the state of emergency, this mobilization is required by hope. It is this solidarity that is due to the Portuguese, health professionals and the infected.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u83	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u84	The government, with courage, with determination, will be here to fight for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u85	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. As I have already informed you, we have a quorum of deliberation more than enough, moreover, there are 203 Mrs and Mrs. registered Members, and we shall therefore proceed immediately to the vote on the request for authorisation, requested by the President of the Republic, for the renewal of the state of emergency declaration. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of BE.]] Before we move on to the next item on our agenda, I congratulate you. Members of the Government currently leaving the Chamber. Now, yes, we will move on to the current debate, required by the PCP, about the problems in the homes of the elderly. To open the debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u86	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, which I welcome, Mrs. Members: The epidemic outbreak that the country faces has had especially difficult and painful consequences for the elderly in homes and their families, as well as for the workers of these social equipment, in their overwhelming majority women and with very low wages. In March 2020, the Secretary-General of the CFP, in a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, placed the imperative need to ensure conditions for the functioning of the homes of the elderly as well as measures for the prevention and containment of the contagion. More than 10 months later, the alerts and concerns that we left have increased importance in the face of the reality that has worsened. We are faced with a reality that requires immediate and effective action, an action that guarantees the necessary emergency responses to the hardness of the situation in many homes. The realities of the contagios and the outbreaks that are identified every day and the consequences for the elderly and their families, for the workers and for the institutions require the urgent implementation, without delay, of several measures to prevent this situation. Working conditions in homes have worsened significantly. More demands are put on the workers of these social equipment and there is no more hands to respond to a reality that is much more difficult. They are essentially the same workers to ensure the functioning of the homes, from the beginning the cleaning and hygiene of the spaces and also the various care they have to provide to the users, with an overload of work and an increased exposure to the risk of infection. At the same time, the elderly in homes are heavy sacrifices, resulting from family and social isolation. This isolation, this loneliness, this physical separation from their families, which has lasted for many months, which causes suffering to the elderly and their families, will have for many irreversible consequences at the physical, emotional and social level. All these dimensions have to have a response and therefore we have adjourned this debate. It is urgent to strengthen the number of workers in the homes so that they ensure, under conditions of health safety, the necessary and quality response in support of the elderly. But workers with rights, not under precarious conditions, in which the worker is asked to work for an institution for 15 days, one month or two months, to return to a situation where he does not have a job. Just as it is necessary to ensure the necessary training of workers for the tasks to be performed. It is urgent to ensure and strengthen the individual means of protection for workers and the elderly. There is an urgent need for conditions for rapid identification of the contagions and for the isolation of such situations. There are many institutions that do not have the conditions to ensure this isolation and must be given answers to these difficulties. It is urgent for social security to accompany, in a close and continuous manner, and to monitor the performance of institutions, the means and conditions for the fulfilment of contingency plans, and to articulate with the health area responses to the specific and specific needs of each institution and of each user. There are elderly people in hospital situations because there are no social responses to receive them; there are elderly people in homes who need more in-depth health responses, but the continuing care network has no vacancies; there are elderly people who have enough autonomy and conditions to stay in their homes, but home support is not guaranteed. All these realities must be considered. The urgent answers to be assured cannot be disengaged from measures that contribute to solving the structural problems that are being tackled, because the difficulties, the problems that are being felt today and their seriousness are also the result of the seriousness of structural problems that cannot be ignored in this debate. The urgent and immediate responses must be included in structural solutions, which face the various problems existing in the home network and which are prior to the moment we live. It is urgent and structural to strengthen the number of workers, whose ratios were already insufficient, to value them and their working conditions, as the CFP has proposed, as it is urgent and structural to face and reverse the proliferation of illegal homes and waiting lists that continue, because the existing vacancies are insufficient, adding the fact that many elderly people are unable to pay the monthlyities practiced. It is also important, therefore, that new vacancies be created in public management homes, in the responsibility of social security, assuming the State's responsibilities, as the CFP has defended and proposed. The quality of the responses should be ensured, the privacy and respect for the individuality of each user, as well as the guarantee of the physical and psychological well-being of each individual. This also means that conditions must be created for more qualified and specialized support, in a more continuous and permanent way, also meaning the existence of professionals from several areas in the most diverse social responses. It is important to extend the home support service, according to existing needs, by creating new responses to ensure that the elderly are provided with the necessary support for their stay at home, provided that they have these conditions. It is essential to implement a public network, planned and articulated according to the needs that aging places, and which realises everyone's access to the answers that they need, on an equal basis, regardless of the social and economic conditions of each one. The CFP has put forward several proposals with concrete solutions to these problems, with immediate measures and with substantive measures. We will continue to intervene in this direction... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u87	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u88	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I said in the CFP, we will continue to intervene in this direction and we will still deliver initiatives this week with proposals that respond to the problems and concerns that we have mentioned here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u89	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, very late. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a time of enormous mobilization of all and it is also a time of recognition of the work of all who, in the social sector, in the public sector and in the private sector, day by day, from March, for 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, protect the people who need it most. But this is also the time to address a special word to families and to all those who have suffered the effects of the pandemic, which has affected so many people. There are thousands of people who, day by day, have been supporting and protecting the weakest and most vulnerable people to this pandemic—and, for all these people, my eternal gratitude and recognition—of course, with all difficulty, all the demands, all the responsibility of those who have not lowered their arms in the service of others, in such a difficult context. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have identified permanent work with institutions as a priority to protect those who are most vulnerable to this pandemic. Therefore, from the beginning we sought to work at two levels, acting in the emergency and acting in the structural response, from then on with an integrated programme of prevention and home support, taking into account the vulnerability of these institutions and the people living in them. Just look at what has happened in many countries, where we have seen disturbing images, including the abandonment of people who were without any protection. It was also thanks to the work of all these people in the field that we have come to the moment when we are today, in which we have had a capacity for some protection of people living in institutions, through special prevention measures, particularly at the level of prevention measures and the training of institutions. I give the concrete example of what has been a constant and permanent work in anticipation of measures that must be created in an extraordinary way. I am afraid that it has been done in continuous collaboration with the social sector, with a task force that we created in March for this purpose, but also with a daily monitoring of all situations on the ground, with a very large proximity of linkage between social security and all institutions. We also have a special programme for the distribution and support of the purchase of personal protective equipment, a special programme for strengthening the human resources of the institutions, which has so far placed more than 14 000 people in 1645 institutions,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a special programme for recruiting qualified technicians for homes, which had the appointment of 937 people, to strengthen permanently the frameworks of the institutions, but also the mobilization of all efforts to solve problems of social rights, including the placement of 1626 people who were in hospitals and could be placed in institutions, what was achieved, and still with ongoing joint visits on the ground, social security, civil protection, health, which arrived at 4221 institutions, for on-the-spot verification and aid to the implementation of preventive measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have also done so with the mobilisation of the Armed Forces, which have been untiring in all these support actions and which, at present, have already done 2000 training actions in their own homes, covering about 21 000 people, with the strengthening of the financial capacity of the institutions, with extraordinary measures worth EUR 465 million to help the institutions face at this time and also at the level of special programmes dedicated only to the workers of the homes for preventive testing of situations, which have already exceeded more than 220 000 employees in terms of preventive testing, which has made it possible to prevent the occurrence of 650 outbreaks, in anticipation and previous identification of positive situations. Also at the level of intervention in the context of outbreaks, I give the concrete example of the rapid intervention brigades, which have been created with much difficulty, a lot of demand, which have been reinforced and currently have 557 people. 363 times have already been activated in outbreaks, currently being 99 active outbreaks. We also have a great deal of concern with the vaccination programme to protect people who are at home and in institutions, having taken priority over the people who are at home and now we already have 165 000 people who are vaccinated within these institutions. But our concern has also been to work on the structural response to what the pandemic has shown to be fragility and, therefore, we must work in terms of diversification, enlargement and requalification of responses, recruitment and qualification of human resources for the social sector. It was in this sense that we launched the notice of PARES 3.0 ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ), with 110 million in 2020, which had so far 1300 applications, which are currently under review but also identified in the Recovery and Resilience Plan 420 million euros dedicated to a program for new responses and new social equipment. This is clearly the time of action and the time of mission, and our mission is to be on the ground permanently with who needs and to support those who are responding to the enormous challenge we have in front of us, always facing the problems, without lowering our arms. This is clearly also the time of the joint mission...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u91	Mrs. Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u92	...and this is the time, above all, of responsibility and union to continue to work and to protect those who need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u93	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to move on to the first round of questions to the government and the party that took the initiative of this agenda. To this end, the first intervention is for Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u94	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP brought here a very relevant issue, the problem of the homes of the elderly. As you know, it is a problem that has been identified by the PSD several times as a dramatic situation, requiring the government to do more than what it is doing. This is because, in fact, there are numerous problems that happen and the honourable Member has just mentioned many of them, in particular, and we can list, has failed to test the homes, which has not been an integrated and systematic test. Mrs. Minister, this is the reality! And it fails to vaccinate the elderly in illegal homes, so it is important to realize if, in fact, the elderly are being vaccinated and how many are being vaccinated. The rapid intervention brigades, a measure which the PSD welcomed but which, we also had the opportunity to say, arrived late, Mrs Minister, needs to be strengthened. We are witnessing huge outbreaks in homes and, indeed, this need to strengthen rapid intervention brigades is crucial. And it continues to fail the link between health and work and social security. Mrs Deputies, it was because of these shortcomings that the PSD, if Mrs Deputies well remember, proposed here in the House a subcommittee, a working group, so that we could specifically monitor the specific subject of the homes, so that all, in particular the parties, society, institutions, could identify problems and present solutions. It was in a constructive spirit that we put forward this proposal for a sub-committee to monitor the situation of households, which the honourable Member and her parliamentary group have failed, which we had the opportunity to regret at the time and once again regret. Now we would like to see a very relevant aspect here, the opinion and position of the CFP Parliamentary Group, as it is a group that supports this government, in relation to the aspects it referred to there. We are aware this week that there are delays in compliance with the social sector institutions, particularly with regard to support. Mrs. Minister, I'm glad you're looking at me with this amazing air, because it may be that way that you're more attentive to this issue and find a solution. It is that what was said by CNIS (National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions) was precisely that public support for the purchase of material for support and protection for the elderly and household employees are not arriving in time and time. It is essential that this support should arrive and we would like to know what the CFP's opinion on this issue is. Even to finish, I will say the following: still today we know that because of the outbreaks in homes, there are more than 30 000 elderly people who have not been vaccinated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u95	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in the first round, so you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u96	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the CFP on bringing this issue to the debate. Since the beginning of the pandemic the Greens consider that there is a need and urgency for strengthening home care, and that the same rules must be applied to the workers of the homes that have been applied to other health professionals, with access to individual protective equipment and with the strengthening of human and material resources, so that it is possible to protect the elderly most vulnerable to the disease. The virus has highlighted many weaknesses in our society, from the very point of view of how we deal with and treat our elderly people. The virus has also made it clear a scenario, often hidden and ignored, of reality and structural problems, with overcrowded and deprived homes of human resources and resources, which calls into question the very conditions in which many elderly people live. The lack of human resources overburdens the workers of these equipment, some working under very precarious conditions, without training and largely taking the minimum wage, which limits follow-up due to the elderly, who are often unnecessarily referred to hospitals, even overloading these units. The rapid brigades, an advanced solution by the government, have shown little effectiveness, either by acting in a late phase, or by the fact that they end up being scarce in the face of the outbreaks that have gone away. We know that the solution must go through prevention, from the outset strengthening human resources affecting homes. So, Minister, I wonder: is there any mechanism in place to strengthen the number of professionals in the homes permanently and not precariously? In view of the fact that the vacancies between the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and social security are very limited, families are required to support high monthly stays, although pensions are extremely low. As a result of the pandemic, many families, as we know, have seen their incomes reduced significantly and many have difficulty in supporting monthly expenses, in particular in order to continue to pay the monthly allowances of their elderly people who are institutionalized in homes, which, above all, have been increased at the beginning of this year, in many situations. Mrs. Minister, I would like to ask whether it is acceptable that the households have significantly increased the values charged by the monthlyities, the majority supported by families, some of which have seen their income fall with the pandemic. I would also like to ask whether the Government has provided for a mechanism to support families to support home messality, taking into account low incomes, low pensions and the consequent increase in monthlyity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u97	Before giving the floor to the next speaker or speaker, the Bureau would like to clarify that the current figure of the current debate follows the previous figure of the urgent debate. We therefore have two rounds of interventions which the parliamentary groups, the sole representatives of parties or the non-registered Members will use in the way they understand, not necessarily in the form of questioning, not being prohibited from doing so in an interrogation manner. So this is how things are going and we will continue to continue to sign up. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mr João Paulo Pedrosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I begin by welcoming this issue because life is not time spent but meeting time. I meet the families who suffer from the absence and distance, meet the professionals and volunteers who in all homes in this country do their best to go to those who need and also meet the State servants, with the members of the Government here present, either with the Minister, or with the Secretary of State coordinator, who have done a herculeum work in response to this problem. The State, invoking here the Biblical parable of the abandoned, is who, through the social minimums, takes care to give first priority to the work of the homes. So it is never too much to remember here everything that has been done, because the question is, fundamentally, what would have happened if this answer had not been given. And the answer is that of training, with 4221 visits for disclosure of standards, 1, 9 million individual protective equipment, the Social Adapter +. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, Dr. João Ferreira de Almeida came here at last week's hearing that if it were not the support for all these equipment and in these activities the homes would not have had the answer they needed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And then there were 220 000 tests, which avoided 650 outbreaks, 2000 training actions for 27 000 people, through civil society and the Armed Forces, 18 rapid intervention brigades, 365 situations, and at the moment 557 people are turning to 99 outbreaks. Again, I will remind the civil society player, Dr. Manuel Lemos, who says, in an interview with Jornal i, the following: « The Red Cross has done an extraordinary job. It is not because of a lack of money that people have not reached home». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u99	You don't have to remember me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u100	Mrs Diana Ferreira spoke to the professionals. In the last debate of the CDS initiative on households, I said here that there had been 8,000 professionals in 1000 institutions. currently, the number is already in 14 000 professionals in 1645 institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then it is also important to say that even criticism, which is legitimate and healthy, if we make a hermeneutic, has slowed down. I think that has a very big sense of responsibility. Even now, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, who always used the question of illegal homes as the political flag of the PSD, has been shown last week that the government had almost gone to exhaustion in identifying illegal homes...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u101	Did he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u102	...and by the interlocutor we had here had not been able to identify any more illegal homes in which the elderly were about to vaccinate, today, left this topic in the drawer. I'm glad you did, because the response the government has given has been extraordinary. On the issue of vaccination, we have already vaccinated people in our homes, removing those who have outbreaks and whose elderly cannot be vaccinated. All the elderly in homes were vaccinated, which is a great gain. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u103	So your initiative makes no sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u104	In addition, we have the new answers that are already being considered, with PARES 3.0, with 150 applications. The Minister may even say, then, what the estimated value to support all these candidatures. So it's a step forward that we're taking. Now, I wanted to finish, because Mr Ventura has not yet spoken but will eventually intervene next, saying that I have noted that he recently criticized the fact that Portugal has asked for help and solidarity at such a difficult time. from his words, he felt that the elderly and the needy in this country should continue to suffer as a symbol of their martyrdom.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u105	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u106	We think solidarity is a social virtue of Portuguese behavior. So right now, throughout this pandemic, the Portuguese have been very supportive and if we resort to international solidarity it is very good because it is in favour of our elderly and those who suffer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u107	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : Once again, I would like to welcome the CFP for bringing to debate an important issue, which has been widely discussed in the last 10 months in the Assembly of the Republic, but which, because of the vicissitudes, is also a very topical issue. I give a first word to all officials of institutions of social solidarity and to the leaders who have replaced the State, in a fundamental role that is of the State. The constraints and difficulties felt by social economy entities are not new — it is true, Mrs Minister — but they have become worse with the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr Minister, you have already had the opportunity, in various forums of the Assembly of the Republic, to say that the Government has increased the reinforcement, but this reinforcement does not arrive — we are not the ones we say, not the Social Democratic Party, are the entities that are on the ground, in support of people — to cover the expenses that entities have with social protection equipment. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, it is not enough to say that the support is coming. It's not the Social Democratic Party that says so, it's the CNIS! I will ask for a news to be distributed—to get to the Minister and the Socialist Party—to realize that it is the CNIS, composed of the institutions that are on the ground and that support people, who say so and that it is not us who invented it! Madam Minister, it is important to clarify when the second phase will be paid to the institutions and how the new period of applications will be guarded. Is it going to be a new period of applications or not? Madam Minister, I have another issue concerning rapid intervention brigades. News has come to the public—we are not telling you—that, even last week, in Torres Vedras, there was a request for support from volunteers to be able to respond to the institutions because the brigades were not enough. The brigades were a good measure — the PSD welcomed her — but they are insufficient and do not reach the ground when necessary. in this period of pandemic and aggravated outbreaks, it is important to know when these brigades actually reach the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u109	Mrs. Deputy, would you like to conclude, if you do the favor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u110	Mr. President, I will conclude. And it is also important — taking what Mrs Bastonaria of the Order of Nurses has pointed out — to know when the people who make up these brigades will be vaccinated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u111	I now give the floor to the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. José Soeiro, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u112	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: It is true that they were the oldest, especially those 150 000 whose confinement has begun for decades, who have suffered more harshly the impact of the health crisis. I am not talking only about lethality, I am also talking about loneliness, prohibited visits, about contact with the family that was often parked and which tends to disappear in this context. In Portugal there are more than 2500 homes of elderly people — 2520 are legalized — the overwhelming majority of these are managed by IPSS. There is, however, a need to add, according to the association we have heard here, about 3500 clandestine homes in which about 35,000 people will live. What happens in these high-risk areas must deserve our greatest concern. The problem is not now, but the question is whether we will now be able to respond to the emergency, but also whether we will be able to look at the root of the problem and find alternative paths, especially the model that we have and which does not serve. In Portugal, formal care for elderly people is scarce, only 12, 8 % of the elderly have access to them. Every year, the State invests EUR 600 million in IPSS cooperation agreements for responses in this area, which operate in a basically private social sector monopoly scheme, but where there are still numerous shortcomings. We have a financial state, however, which resigns itself from the direct provision and which does wrong in doing so. This shortage of formal care offers has several consequences: first, many elderly are at home, at home, in self-care; second, there is an overload of informal caregivers' families; third, there is a worrying volume of clandestine responses that perpetuate themselves. In addition, there is also — this issue has already been brought here by the CFP — a problem of professional and wage devaluation in this sector: wages linked to minimum wage, absence of careers, heavy shifts, work overload without compensation, excessive turnover of professionals, in a sector where training in the context of work practically does not exist. The ratios of workers that the law itself defines are often disrespected by the IPSS, by the institutions, being more flagrant - there are studies pointing out precisely in this sense - in the night and as regards health professionals. The supervision by the State is far from what would be necessary. Therefore, we need to respond to all these problems with more working conditions for these essential professionals, for caregivers and professional caregivers in the homes of the elderly and home support. More professionals are needed, more investment in hiring professionals and not only because of precarious schemes resulting from government support. So we need more investment, as has been said here, but we need something else. Adding to all these difficulties is the question of the operation model itself, of the intervention model itself, of the prevailing institutionalization paradigm. We need to rethink, from high to low, the entire care model for the elderly. The challenge I would like to raise to you, Mrs Minister, is to know whether the Government is available to fully rethink this model, contrary to institutionalization, which is always a rupture of the daily life and a limitation of autonomy, contrary to outsourcing to private institutions, to the IPSS, and the consequent resignation of the State in the public provision, overcoming the totally artificial separation between health care and social care and also investing in responses that are more capable of avoiding institutionalization. This is what we propose: more responses in multidisciplinary teams, in supervision, in home support, better working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u113	Mr. José Soeiro, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u114	Yes, Mr. President. It's only another 10 seconds. But we also propose a deinstitutionalization plan, which must be a great challenge for the country, which I will talk about in more detail in the next intervention. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u115	You now have the floor, in this first round, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make a few comments, considering also the previous speeches. From now on, I begin by answering, until a very specific question has been asked to the PCP, to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD. We believe that the cooperation agreements and the government's commitments with the institutions must be fulfilled, and in due course, so that the institutions will naturally have the conditions to provide the answers to which they are required. Madam Member, allow me also to tell you that the CFP defends — we have already said several times — that social rights are a first obligation of the State. What this situation demonstrates is that the transfer of the State's responsibilities in this area to institutions of social solidarity, taking the responsibility of ensuring a set of responses in fundamental rights, also contributes to the situation that currently exists of a lack of answers and difficulties from many institutions that have even seen the increase of responsibilities in responding to what they actually have in their hands. Therefore, this is the great failure: the deresponsibility of the State and the transfer of these responsibilities to other institutions. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, let me just say that, with regard to the number of workers you referred to here, it is of course referring to the workers who are covered by the door which the government has published, which provides that they are, for example, workers in layoff working in homes. We're talking about this, we're talking about the door that doesn't guarantee a job for workers, that doesn't guarantee them a salary, but that guarantees them a scholarship! We're talking about this precariousness! To the people who are going to work for the homes, often without the complete training that has to be guaranteed — this is absolutely priority — even at increased risk of contagion, we are saying: « Stay here for a while and then return to your unemployment situation, then return to your layoff! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is not the solution at all! The rapid intervention brigades, Mrs Minister, have just been the necessary solution to the situation we have, but they are also the solution to the structural problems of lack of human resources in the homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u117	It's an emergency, it's not a final situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u118	I believe that we all agree with the fact that there is a lack of workers in the homes, as a whole of social equipment, and that the number of such workers, as the CFP has proposed and insisted, needs to be strengthened. We need workers with rights and that the permanent needs that exist in so many institutions correspond to effective links, so that it does not go with precarious links trying to cover up the permanent needs, because this precariousness also affects the care provided to the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u120	Often these care fails because there are no hands to reach everywhere. This situation cannot continue in this way! The CFP has presented a set of responses because there is a reality that is tremendously worrying in the homes at the moment, although we also have to say, as we have already stated, that there are a set of problems that are not new but that have been deeply aggravated by the reality of the epidemic outbreak that the country faces. Mrs Minister, I would like to ask two very specific questions. From that point on, I would like to know what measures the Government is available to take in order to strengthen the number of workers in the homes, workers with rights and with links to institutions that need them permanently, as the CFP has already put forward in proposals. How will the government intervene in all institutions whose buildings do not have the conditions to ensure separation between users who may be infected and users who are not infected? This separation is decisive until the spread of the contagion is stopped. What answers does the Government also give to the institutions in this regard? Now, from the point of view of the rights of the elderly—we have spoken here about the rights of workers, their effective linkage and their necessary wage valuation, as the CFP has placed— these users who have been in a situation of isolation, loneliness and alienation from their family for many months, and it is also necessary to intervene properly, due support, so that there is no physical, emotional and social damage to those who are already in a situation of tremendous vulnerability. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u121	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the CDS. Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u122	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister and telling her that, of course, we welcome her restoration. Obviously, due to many differences in perspective, consideration exists and must also be expressed at this time. It is a very good sign that we may be conducting this debate in person. Having said this, as it is known, the CDS, since March, began to work and present solutions to questions that allude to the elderly, not because we had a higher notion than that of all others about what was going on with the elderly but because we had the cases of Italy and Spain well present and because we all knew that in Portugal the elderly population was especially vulnerable. On the other hand, we also knew that homes were an easy location. These two realities together, which cannot be disconnected from each other, led, from the beginning, to special attention should be paid to the homes and the elderly, or, better, to the elderly and the homes, because the elderly who are not at home also. The concerns that we had, at first, had to deal with logistical issues, which are important, so that there would not exist what, unfortunately, by the height of summer, ended up existing, which was the simultaneousity of a series of contact points in different institutions and locations in the country. There were several outbreaks, as we know, and the case of Reg going was the most spoken. from our point of view, from the outset, there should have been more effective, either at the level of individual protective equipment, or in an issue which we have already discussed with the Minister and with the Minister of Health here, in Parliament, specifically. I am talking about the link between the health authorities and the social security authorities. From the very beginning this joint should have been more effective. That is not a problem today and we know that several governments have dealt with this problem. But obviously, at such a demanding time as this one to fight a pandemic, this difficulty of articulation generates much more serious situations than in ordinary times. Not always, at this time and now, the articulation with health is sufficient for timely interventions and to prevent outbreaks from occurring in the homes. I refer to personal protective equipment, the link between health and social security and, from a certain point of view, the issue of tracking. from our point of view and from the point of view of the experts—we only welcome what the experts have been saying— one of the best ways to combat the outbreaks, even before entering the vaccination phase, was the screening, so that tests were not done massively in the homes after a case appeared but could be done before cases appeared, so that it could detect itself and isolate itself in time. It didn't always happen. Mr President, I will finish for now — I am continuing in the second intervention — but I would like to say that we still believe that this cannot be the debate of the «is all right». It must be the debate in which, with responsibility, we all assume that it was impossible, under any circumstances, to be all right and therefore better recognize it and contribute to making it effectively better.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u123	The next intervention was Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We congratulate and greet the CFP on the subject which brings the debate and we would like to address some comments and requests for clarification to the Minister, who we hesitate to see restored and available to come to debate with us. Mr Minister, in fact, the government needs to do more and more in response to the social problems of the elderly. It is necessary to look at the elderly before they reach home. It is necessary to look at our elderly people who do not have the possibility of having a decent home and a comfortable home, nor do they have enough support to do works. It is necessary to look at our elderly who do not have an efficient public network to respond to their needs. It is necessary to look at those elderly who are pushed, often days, weeks, months and years, in hospital spaces, not for clinical reasons, but for social reasons, often being even forgotten, either by family contexts, or by the State itself. It is also necessary to look at the elderly who need home care but do not have the financial capacity to have them. It is true that the health crisis has indeed come to present structural difficulties and has aggravated a problem which, over the years, has not had an effective response. Data from January this year report that about 1300 elderly people without a family background were placed in homes, since the beginning of the health crisis, because they occupied hospital beds for social reasons and not for clinical reasons. The outbreaks in the homes have also mirrored those difficulties that were already structural, for example, due to the lack of internal health teams capable of acting closely and quickly in critical situations. One of the issues we would like to address to the Minister is precisely when and how the Government will solve the problem of this lack of internal health teams in the homes, to ensure these rapid responses in critical situations. We remember that the structural lack of environmental health technicians and public health professionals raises the risk of infection by this virus or other infectious agents in the context of home. This cannot, in fact, be ignored, even more in the context of illegal homes, which we know are not always on the radar of public control, as they should be. After these 10 months of health crisis, it seems to us quite incomprehensible that the outbreaks continue to manifest themselves, as they continue. It is therefore essential to ensure adequate follow-up responses to residential structures. The truth is that we also need, Mrs. Minister, a diverse and comprehensive set of responses for the elderly, in addition to those already characterized, which promote active life and active aging and respond to the real needs of our elderly. What we would like to ask you is the following: for when, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u125	Mr Ventura, from the East, has the floor now, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs. Minister, as my time is short, I will start with questions, because I want to answer Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa. I will begin by asking you how the situation of household workers is, which is another of the problems we have had, in the various reports that are pointed out. Have they, or have they not, been identified and have they, or have they not, been vaccinated? We have information from several people in homes who do not meet the vaccination criteria and have been vaccinated. I ask you if you can foresee, in terms of time, the full vaccination of the elderly home users. Can we have a final reference time? I ask you, yet, why we do not have this information, at least complete and up-to-date, in how many homes are currently active pandemic outbreaks. It's information that no one has and it was important. Finally, the epidemiological bulletin of January 24 indicated an outbreak in the Home of Santo António, in the Campelos, with 40 infected: 34 users and 6 employees. I ask you if you know what the situation is like. I will finish by answering Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa : my question is not Germany to help Portugal, or Spain to help Portugal, or Italy to help Portugal. My question is always to be Europe's 'long hands'! [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] That's my question! If it were Portugal to help Germany, or to help Italy or Spain, how proud it would be, Mr. Deputies! [[Protests of PS Members.]] There we would all agree: Portugal would have done a good job!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u127	Mr. André Ventura, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u128	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, to be proud of having to come from outside to help us in the midst of a pandemic crisis is that I can't understand everything. That is the lack of national pride we cannot have.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u129	Even in this first round, the Socialist Party, which still has 4 seconds, wishes to intervene, I suppose that through Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, which I congratulate, from now on, on the ability to intervene in 4 seconds. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to make four very brief notes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u131	In 4 seconds? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u132	In four seconds! I wanted to tell the CFP that there is already public procurement. What is done for social minimums guarantees a public contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u133	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u134	There could be more or less. With regard to Mr Ventura, I would like to congratulate you on correcting the shot because, in fact, what you said is that the elderly, the suffering ones, should endure, as a symbol of your martyrdom, suffering...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u135	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u136	...and that it is not a pride to ask for help. We have to go to the needy and the poorest.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u137	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude. There will be an opportunity in the second round to make other considerations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u138	There, it's not pride at all, but it's a need. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u139	To close this first round, the Government has the floor, through the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, trying to answer the doubts that have been raised by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, on the first question, put by Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, perhaps, I admit that we have often little to disclose the operationalization of the measures we have taken. In fact, I think that is why you have no knowledge of the number of preventive tests that have been carried out to employees. Portugal was one of the only countries that implemented this programme on the ground and has now exceeded 220 000 preventive tests to employees,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that allowed to identify before and therefore avoid 640 outbreaks. It was thanks to this preventive testing that it was possible to identify positive tests in employees and therefore avoid the spread of the virus within institutions. On the other hand, our concern has always, I repeat, always been to support all units and institutions, regardless of their legal or legal nature, including. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we are concerned about is the people who are in these institutions, whether they are legal or illegal. We don't care! We are interested in protecting people and that is what we have done. That is why we did, during 2020, a comprehensive articulated programme between social security, civil protection and health, to identify all illegal homes that were possible locally.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u141	The PS doesn't believe it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u142	It was possible to identify 788 illegal homes. Our concern has been that measures cover all people, because we are protecting people and not institutions. Still with regard to the brigades, I also have to penalise myself for, often, we do not disclose what we do and do not use so much communication. [[Representatives of PSD members Clara Marques Mendes and Helga Correia.]] We are more concerned about action and being on the ground, next to whoever needs it. In fact, rapid intervention brigades have already been strengthened.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u143	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u144	They were originally created, Mrs. Clara Marques Mendes, with 400 people. at this moment, they have 557 people. Therefore, they have already been strengthened with more 157 people and are constantly being strengthened... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because we feel that it was a necessary and fundamental tool to respond to the situation and the outbreaks we have all faced. I repeat that the outbreaks result from the contamination of the community. Of course, right now, those who take the virus into their homes are the people who come in and out. Therefore, the effect of contagion and spread in the community leads the outbreaks to the homes. Just look at what has happened internationally in other countries, and just look at numbers in Portugal: the percentage of deaths of people in homes is still 28 %. It is, of course, a number that concerns us, but if we compare and see the numbers of other countries, we realize the seriousness of the situation in other countries, namely Spain or Italy, with very disproportionate percentages, which show the difficulty of the situation well. In relation to the concern about the link between health, social security and civil protection on the ground—it adds civil protection—from the outset, I, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Internal Administration and the Minister of National Defence have been defining intervention and articulation protocols on the ground, to ensure that throughout the territory it was acting in the same way, with the articulation of the various entities. these joint interventions include the 2000 on-the-spot training actions by the Armed Forces, together with social security, or more than 4000 visits to the site together by social security, health and civil protection, precisely to monitor and monitor the implementation in the field of prevention measures. As for the Social Adaptar +, which was the program that we created following the direct distribution of the individual protective equipment in which 1 million and 900 thousand individual protective equipment were distributed, we chose to create a program to provide financial support of 10 000 € to each institution for the acquisition of individual protective equipment, and at the moment, support for 2161 institutions have been contracted. Moving forward to a question put by Mrs Helga Correia, we are preparing the third phase of the Social Adaptar +, which will not need applications, i.e. we will automatically reinforce, with financial support to the institutions, so that there is no need for applications, to be faster. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as the brigades are concerned, the vaccination of both the brigade elements and the rear equipment elements is concerned, which I think was put to me by Mrs Bebiana Cunha with regard to the concern that responses should be created when there are outbreaks and where people should be placed where they should be put. It was in this sense, moreover, that we created several throughout the country, and the people who are placed in these spaces are also covered by vaccination. Mrs Mariana Silva, on the great concern about human resources, could no longer share. I have a huge concern about the valorization, qualification and increase in the number of people working in the social sector. I think it is one of the strategic areas of investment, qualification, conversion of human resources, whether in the social area, whether in the digital area, or in the area of environmental sustainability. So I think it's critical. In fact, we have identified the social sector as one of the areas for this to happen, particularly through the recruitment support programmes we have launched. The MAREESS programme (support for strengthening the emergence of social and health equipment), which is an emergency programme for strengthening human resources, has so far covered more than 14 000 people, but we have created a special mechanism for the conversion of contracts so that people stay in the institutions at the end. On the other hand, we also issued the notice concerning the Programme + CO3SO(Constituir, Cocretize and Consolidar Synergies and Opportunities ) with a view to hiring qualified professionals to the institutions of the social sector, provided that they are not precarious contracts, i.e., contracts without end, having had 937 applications. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, on the concern she has raised regarding the need for diversification in the responses, clearly that this is a path that we all have to take, as Country. I think a huge investment has been made. Just remember the various programs PAIES ( Social Equipment Investment Support Programme) which were launched over the years for requalification and investment in responses and new social equipment. The consequence of this legacy was the launch in 2020 of a new warning of EUR 110 million, but we also, of course, designed a programme under the Recovery and Resilience Programme, the European bazouca, which is a programme dedicated only to investing in social equipment responses with EUR 420 million. Therefore, what we expect as a whole of these two instruments is an amount of EUR 530 million devoted to requalification and diversification of response, including investment in strengthening home support measures and programmes, support mechanisms for people, including adaptation of their dwellings so that they can stay at home, and strengthening of the monitoring teams on the ground. So this is what we have identified, with the forecast of some 28 000 new vacancies to be covered by this investment of EUR 530 million. With regard to the concern signaled by Mrs Diana Ferreira on the question of the qualification and valorization of workers in the social sector, I cannot agree any more. in this sense, moreover, we are preparing the launch of the Qualifica Programme, exactly for the training and valorization of workers because, the more valued and qualified they are, the greater their valorization and the ability to be absorbed in order to be part of the institutions. On the other hand, I want to note that from the outset our concern has been to protect people. Therefore, over time we have been implementing and measuring measures, removing the most serious measures, particularly those that gave them more isolation, precisely with the concern of people's well-being, both physically and psychologically. Moreover, visits have been allowed for a long time, because we have removed this prohibition precisely with that concern. Only at local level, depending on specific conditions, can the health authorities define some limitation depending on the specific situation of the home. With the Social Adapter + Program, what we did was provide financial support for the adaptation of spaces so that visits could be made safely.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u145	Mr. Minister, please conclude if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u146	I conclude by saying, Mr Ventura, that we now have 364 active outbreaks — I think it was one of the questions that you asked us. In terms of the percentage of deaths in households, in Portugal we have 28 %, in Spain 47 %, in France 43 %, to give some data from other countries. Thank you all very much. Above all, I am grateful for the contribution of all in this which must be a joint and collective mission of society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the second round, and the first intervention is the Socialist Party. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u148	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries : This debate is important and we welcome the CFP because it has been scheduled. It is important to be able to clarify, to be informed, to be able to support better measures to support the pandemic. If we make the debate a kind of competition about who is more concerned or who is more supportive of the elderly people who live in homes, as some parties seem to want to do from these debates. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Socialist Party it is very clear: we believe that all of us, all the parties with parliamentary seats, are equally concerned about the situation of the homes and the situation of the elderly people living there. But this debate is at risk of losing its effectiveness if we make the table of the measures that have been taken by the government since the beginning of the pandemic. And no, Mrs. Member, do not think that the Minister has disclosed enough. We simply go to the hearings that the Minister has made in the past, in this Parliament, we take in some documents which she has distributed so that we all have an obligation to know what measures the Government has taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Helga Correia, we have noted the evolution of the PSD position on rapid intervention brigades!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u149	That's not true! It's a lie what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u150	I remember from Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite saying, in the Health Committee, that Mrs Deputy is not a member but I am a member of...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u151	I do, I do!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u152	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u153	... I repeat, I remember Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite saying: " Impossible! They can never be mounted, because there are no doctors for these brigades! Now, these brigades are not only mounted as they are on the ground. My colleague mentioned all the numbers, which in the end, if you want, we can deliver to him. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u154	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, it is absolutely incomprehensible, unacceptable even, that the honourable Member should come here once again, insinuating that the elderly in illegal homes are outside the support measures for people in the pandemic, when the honourable Member knows — you know! — there is no discrimination either in the vaccination plan or in the test plan. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And it is funny that one day I discovered an interview in which Mr. President of ALI (Association of Homes and Houses of Rest), that the PSD called this House a few days ago, about the number of illegal homes in 2012 — I don't know if they remember who was in the government in 2012 — had already referred to some 3000 illegal homes. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I would like to know if the government then made a list that can now provide this government with a view to doing its work better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u155	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u156	That's enough! Oh, my God! For God's sake! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u157	But the essential question, Mrs Deputies, and the Minister has already mentioned it, is this: from the outset, there is a strategy to identify all illegal homes that are possible. Every day there are several agents on the ground, at national and local level, to identify these same illegal homes and to protect the people there, because, as the Minister says, it is about protecting people. It is not the status of institutions that matters, when we are in the context of this pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u158	Let's be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u159	Yes, Mrs. Member, let's be serious! It's not worth scaring people about illegal homes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u160	But who's getting scared? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u161	Mrs Diana Ferreira, it is true that the conditions of the homes have worsened. But it is also true that they significantly increased home support, with more workers, with more volunteers, with more training, with more protective equipment. Is it always possible to do more? Of course! And we believe that there has been the ability to adapt and increase measures in line with the evolution of the pandemic itself. Mr Soeiro has put here a very important question, which we must take into account and we must not forget, not only in these debates, but after the pandemic, which is the model of response to older people and the diversification of responses. Institutionalization is neither the answer nor the answer, but it is a necessary answer. We know that generation of people who are in our homes today have conditions that never had in their lives until that moment and that they would not have if they continued in their homes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u162	But now we must also promote the diversification of measures so that, as far as possible — I believe that our ambition should be that — each person can have as much as he will best conform to his own will in that period of his life.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u163	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u164	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying the following: this debate had an important question which should be answered. And the question is this: has the government, from the outset, had the ability to act and monitor the evolution of the pandemic with the right measures? From our perspective, you have! It's always possible to do better. It is with that spirit that the Government has acted and that spirit that the Socialist Party is always in these debates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u165	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ofélia Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The problem of households requires deep reflection and, above all, demands actions by the government. The problems of homes are not new, but have been ignored by the government at a serious human cost for those who, because of their advanced age, are in a situation of great economic and social vulnerability and dependence. These are structural problems that existed before the pandemic, but unfortunately because of this, these problems gained space on the political agenda, exposing everything that has been ignored. There are many shortcomings in the system and many of them can and should be resolved by the government, because this is a responsibility of the government. The system fails because it does not guarantee adequate coverage of this social response. When there are no vacancies in the social network, families in despair are forced to resort to illegal homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u167	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u168	This demand inevitably gives rise to the proliferation of illegal homes. The system fails because the underfinancing of the State to the social sector and the demanding legal requirements for the functioning of residential structures for the elderly raise the prices of this social response. Even if shared by social security, the prices practised are unfeasible for most families, who have to spend more than 1000 € per month. These prohibitive prices cannot compete with the prices of illegal homes because they do not have the operating costs that legal households have, whether in the social sector or in the private sector. The system fails because the vacancies shared by social security are insufficient to meet the needs of the elderly population and are not intended exclusively for the most disadvantaged elderly. In fact, in many cases, older people with higher pensions have a preference in vacancies shared by social security, to the detriment of the most disadvantaged elderly. The system fails because it does not ensure adequate coverage of the integrated national care network and as a result the households are often playing this role unduly. The system fails because the slowness, complexity and demand of the home licensing procedure, with double license, by the municipal chamber and social security, prevents the legalization of numerous homes, which often meet excellent conditions for users. I recall that it is enough to welcome four elderly people so that a home is licensed, with often disproportionate requirements for public purposes to be safeguarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u170	The system fails because it does not monitor illegal homes, allowing them to continue to function in the eyes of all and putting thousands of elderly people at risk, at the level of human health and dignity. Therefore, the President of the Union of Mercy said, and well, that the State is responsible for the existence of illegal homes and that the State closes its eyes to illegal homes because it has no answer. Therefore, the President of the Social Solidarity Cooperatives said, and well, that illegal homes exist because there is not enough and affordable offer to families, and it is the State's fault. It is unacceptable that in a country with around 2500 residential structures for the elderly, there are also 3500 homes in an illegal or even clandestine situation. No, it's not 788 illegal homes, as Mrs. Minister has just said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u171	Tell me how you know. How do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u172	There are 35 000 elderly people living in illegal structures, to which neither health authorities nor social security have access. By ignoring these problems, the government is leaving 35 000 elderly people at risk, and this is unacceptable. The PSD has been alerting the situation of illegal homes and has long been requesting a social security survey in collaboration with the security and civil protection authorities. But, my lords, this has not been done, nothing has been done so far. The situation is particularly worrying in the current pandemic environment. Without this survey, the Government excluded from the first phase of the Vaccination Plan against COVID-19 thousands of elderly people who, out of despair or need, are forced to live outside the system. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u173	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u174	I conclude, Mr. President. The mortality rate in households is unacceptable, and this is the result of the underfinancing of the State to the social sector and the insufficient coverage of the social equipment network, causing a degradation of the services provided to the elderly. Talking about death with numbers may be politically incorrect and even seem insensitive, but we must look at these numbers with seriousness and responsibility. How many more deaths will be necessary for something to be done? [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] The audits and inspections determined by the government, such as those carried out in a home of Reg Lunds, are of no use when any conclusions are reached to prevent future errors. The government can't keep whispering to the side...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u175	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u176	... nor to relativize numbers, because more than numbers are people in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u177	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the considerable increase in the elderly population, and given the pandemic scourge in which we live today, more than ever, it is imperative that we look at people. This is our political, moral and civic obligation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u179	Mr. Carlos Pereira asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u180	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u181	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u182	Mr President, I ask the Bureau to ask the PSD Parliamentary Group to list the more than 3000 illegal homes mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u183	The Bureau will request that Mr. You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u184	Mr President, Mrs Ofélia Ramos said the system fails. But the system fails for many reasons, and it is not worth being simplistic or demagogic. And now we know what the right solution for the homes was.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u185	Oh, yes! [[Congrats from PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u186	The right solution was to increase the number of elderly people per room, the number of people placed in the same spaces, with the same ratios of professionals. [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u187	It's not a lie, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u188	Therefore, this model of storage of elderly people, to artificially increase vacancies, with less conditions, was the response given by the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u190	Mrs Ofélia Ramos now went up to the gallery to talk about illegal homes, but the only solution she presented was to lower the requirements of the institutions, worsening the conditions of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u192	Madam Member, this happened at the same time—because I have memory! — that the PSD, for example in the city of Porto, closed up the few public support equipment for the elderly, as was the case with the Home of the Fontainhas, which had 200 vacancies, or allowed the Lar de Monte dos Burgos to be degraded. So we know the model.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u193	And they had conditions?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u194	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, also wanted to point out the agreement with the need to diversify responses, and that is to move into the model. But moving in the model is also changing the relationship that the State establishes with the provision of care for elderly people. And it is true that the Constitution itself points to a wrong model on social care when it places health care under public responsibility, as being a care carried out by the State through the National Health Service, and throws social care into the sphere of family and civil society, in fact, reproduces in this way a familyist and conservative view of these care. The State has to assume a direct responsibility for providing these care and, therefore, the challenge we face is not only to finance private institutions of social solidarity. That is why we say that there must be immediate answers, such as: strengthening multidisciplinary teams; hiring professionals for social security inspection; strengthening the link between health and social security; a recruitment plan for home support professionals who are directly linked to the Institute of Social Security. That is why we say that the professional conditions of workers in this sector need to be valued. The Minister did not have time to respond to my speech, but I insist: the social and cooperative sector support programme has the wrong model of the use of scholarships and the forms of precariousness which do not even provide for a work contract. We have already proposed it here, but I insist that the contracts of these 15 000 professionals under this programme should be converted into work contracts. We need a multiannual plan — a recommendation has already been adopted in this House, but, as I know, the government has not yet followed it up — to equate the IPSS wage tables with the tables in the public sector, because these professionals are poorly paid, have poor wages and bad working conditions. Finally — and in conclusion — we need a plan to deinstitutionalise the elderly, which from our point of view should include several dimensions. First, it must be done in partnership with the authorities, with local intervention teams in people's homes, so that they can spend more time in their own homes. Secondly, there must be substantial strengthening of home support, with the hiring of 30,000 workers, not only in order to extend the offer, such as extending what is offered and the type of care provided in home support, and also extending the time itself, because there is no sense that there is no home support at the end of the week, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u195	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u196	I'm done now, Mr. President. in this model, we also need to strengthen support for informal caregivers, programs, projects and community cohousing responses that guarantee autonomy. Being on the arm with the emergence of the pandemic, we run, purely and simply, the risk of limiting ourselves to reproduce a model that proved not only insufficient but inadequate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u197	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, may I begin my speech with this idea, with which you will certainly agree: a country that respects and dignifies its elderly is a country with more and better quality of life. Of course, question: why does the government not implement social protection policies for the elderly, faced with very difficult situations, in the final phase of their lives, with more and more difficulties to cope with the final phase? More than the weight on the conscience of your government — but also on the conscience of other PS governments and PSC and CDS governments — is the responsibility of not implementing these policies. It is not a stereotype that negative feeling that aging exists as a weight for society; it is, in fact, a feeling that people have, but it is also a reality lived by them and therefore it is important that measures be implemented. The greatest measure that may exist is the appreciation of the reforms and pensions of these people, because that is also where the government fails, making increases that do not arrive, even to pay a piece of fruit per day — that is, Mr Minister, when we suggest that each person eat five pieces of fruit per day. This is a practical example of what these insignificant increases represent. It is necessary to combat poverty in the elderly and to be aware that the elderly population is the poorest among the poor. The PCP fights for it. The CFP is against those who have worked their entire lives in the final phase of life, in need of support—they can no longer take a bath alone and can no longer, even, feed themselves, get up or go to bed alone, with a reformed park and have no economic capacity to access a decent institution that takes care of it. Therefore, social policies have failed for the elderly. Mrs. Minister, I want to leave you with another question related to access to health. Much has been said about the lack of linkage between the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and the Ministry of Health, where it is necessary for this joint to deepen and improve. I have already told you — the Minister knows, of course, that once an elderly person enters a residential structure for the elderly, he almost loses access to the doctor and the family nurse. You lose it because, as the Minister knows, often this elderly person does not go to an integrated home in his community, to his social ties and where he lives, but to the nearby municipality or district, far away, without access to his family doctor. She has access to the doctor and nurse of her institution, but she no longer has access to complementary diagnostic examinations and treatments she should have. As the Minister knows, if she needs treatment to take care of wounds, for example, it will have to be the family to buy them, when at the health centre she would be entitled, free of charge, to these products, which are very expensive. Therefore, it is essential that there is a link with the Ministry of Health, even because there are many patients admitted to the National Health Service who should already be in an institution like these, as there are many patients who should be in the National Health Service, but they are in these institutions. Madam Minister, I also want to leave you with an idea regarding the apparent intention of health protection. In fact, it has been apparent, because it has not been effective. If there is a group that has fulfilled isolation has been this group, that of the elderly, which proves that responsibility is not only on the side of the Portuguese people. Responsibility is also on the Government's side, which has to implement protective measures and, in this case, more testing, because we have to go to the virus, and do not let the virus go to the elderly population. Finally, I also wanted to tell you that there is an apparent intention of vaccination because many « died on the beach». Many homes, many institutions protected their elderly and now, already in the final phase, when the following day these elderly were vaccinated, these institutions were left with a chain of contagio.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u199	Mr. Deputies, please conclude if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u200	Finally, Mr President, these elderly people have lost access to vaccination. Mr Minister, how is it going, then, to resolve the situation of those who have had contagion chains in their homes and who have lost access to vaccination? For when is that answer? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u201	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to speak on the next speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: Recently, trying to make a constructive intervention, I said it was not time to be saying that it was all right. It seemed that I was guessing what Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos was going to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u203	That's not true! He didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u204	It's just, Mrs. Member, it's worth everything! It was worth putting in the mouth of others what they never said, it was worth saying some numbers and hiding others, it was worth telling one part of the story and not telling another!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u206	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, with all the consideration I have for you, I ask you: at a time of pandemic, at a time when we all know that the elderly are the most vulnerable population, at a time when we know that we have problems with our homes, do you really think this is a matter of parties against each other? Do you really think so? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u208	I ask you, Madam Member: when this debate ends, when you leave this Chamber, are you satisfied because you said badly about the other parties? You think that's what we're all looking for? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u209	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u210	Or is everyone here satisfied if we contribute so that the elderly actually have more attention and more care?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u211	He'll be denied!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u212	No, no, Mrs. Member, I will not be denied! I will give you two examples, Mrs. Deputies. And I'm willing to, because what I'm going to say doesn't apply to me. She said that the PSD changed its position with regard to intervention brigades. It's a lie! The CDS has been critical since the beginning, but not the PSD! I'm happy to tell you, because the CDS has been critical from the beginning, and I think you were right, but the PSD didn't. That's not true! With regard to illegal homes, does the honourable Member think that, at the moment, what is important is to discuss how many illegal homes there were in 2012? But even though I think that what is important right now is not to think about the elderly who are there, but how many of these homes there were in 2012,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u213	He didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u214	... does the honourable Member remember who ruled between 2005 and 2011? If you remember, you probably didn't say that nonsense, because obviously that debate doesn't make sense. And even if she did, Mrs. Deputy was wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u215	Do you know how many homes we supported?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u216	There are those who want to make this debate conditional on the ideological issue—I am not speaking to the Socialist Party now, rest assured— by introducing the question of the nature and property of the homes at the moment. Honestly, it's not time for that! on this issue we are in disagreement, as you know. But there is a question on which we can agree, which is worth discussing, which is the issue of combating institutionalization and combating the autonomy and active ageing of the elderly and a caregiver's status that effectively takes place in practice. This is a very important discussion, but obviously we cannot do it at the same time as we have a problem of elderly people who are alone at home and who have stopped having a home support structure that reaches them — and this is a priority — or at the same time that we have homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u217	Do you know how many homes we supported?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u218	Madam Member, you can believe numbers solve the problems, but that's not true! We're talking people!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u219	Mr. João Almeida, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u220	I will finish, Mr President, but I just have to say something to Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u221	Do me a favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u222	The honourable Member thinks that what solves the problem is that the Portuguese know about government initiatives. We think that what solves the problem is that the elderly have the care they need. That's the difference! [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u223	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In fact, I cannot but begin by speaking to Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, because it seems to me that it is a negationism or an alienation, Mrs Deputies, to say that the Portuguese or older people are better at home than in their own homes...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u225	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u226	We all heard what the honourable Member said! Therefore, Mrs Deputy, this is a lack of notion, in this debate, not to recognize that there is a serious problem in Portugal with the illegal homes of the elderly. We don't need to be indicating the location or the street, in particular, of the approximately 3000 homes that have been referred to...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u227	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u228	...to know that there is a structural problem of combating illegal homes and of decent conditions for people who are at the age of age can live, Mrs Deputy. Therefore, let us be serious in this debate, which should be transversal to all political forces here. I can therefore not fail to mention this initial note. These illegal homes—I address in particular to the Minister, because the work or the path that has been done here is not at all involved—a structural reality that we cannot continue to ignore. The lack of response for these entities, which are injured by illegality, has in fact to be a priority for the government and for all of us. The House also, of course, has its share of responsibility in the issues and in the way we have to do, which cannot be, alone and exclusively, the path of institutionalization. We have only to offer people who are in their old age the path of institutionalization is very little to what we have to do, as a country, to ensure a full and active life of their rights. They are confined to a life of poverty, abandonment, loneliness, isolation, illegal homes, without any conditions, cannot continue to be forgotten or left behind. We must guarantee them support so that they have a minimally dignified end of life. Therefore, Mrs Minister, we would like to see, in addition to the plans, beyond the identification and diagnosis, which obviously has to be done — we understand that there is a diagnosis that has to be done — what measures are planned. On the basis of the opportunity to be vaccinating and testing in homes, including illegal ones, what concrete measures, in terms of government priority, are planned to ensure that, from here to the future, we will be able to intervene, regulate and withdraw people from these absolutely illegal contexts? But not everyone needs to be integrated in these responses in terms of homes. Many wish to live—and have that right— autonomously and independently. It is therefore necessary to ensure that responses are also found for these people, whether at home support, autonomous residences or informal caregivers, among many others. This reality does not lie in the homes of the elderly, whether they are illegal or not; it spreads to elderly people who are alone in their homes, many of them isolated, without family backing or even confined, in contexts of domestic violence, physical and emotional abuse and even financial extortion, which we continue to fail to fight as a society. in this sense, there are, in fact, very interesting projects, such as the Radar Project in Lisbon, which should be spread throughout the national territory, which allows to create a community so that, in the frenzy of the days we live today, we do not leave behind the most fragile population. Therefore, Mrs Minister, it seems to us that, at this time, it was very important to realize, in addition to the emergency responses and from a strategic point of view, that structural responses are being thought of by the Government, in a case which is quite clear and obvious responsibility of the State, so that older people are not continually left behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u229	Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u230	It is to make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u231	About the conduct of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u232	Yes, Mr President, about the conduct of the work, because it was said that I said something I did not say. [[Protests by PSD Members and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u233	I understand, but actually, the conduct of work is something else.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u234	So I ask you to intervene in defense of honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u235	You have to identify where your honor has been stained, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u236	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I will have the pleasure of taking her to some homes I know, some in my county.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u237	I hope it's not now with this pandemic!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u238	There are people from the generation of our grandparents, from our mothers, who had much worse living conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u239	Madam Member, may I ask you to identify your honor...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u240	This is important, Mr President, because I do not admit that you say something that I did not say. [[Protests by PSD Members and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] What I said was that many of the people of the generation of our grandparents and our mothers, if they continued in their homes, would have worse living conditions than those in their homes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you want to, I'm taking you to some of these people, because I'm not talking about cases in the air, I'm talking about cases I know! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u241	If Mrs Inês de Sousa Real wishes to say something right now, she has the floor. It has 2 minutes for this effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u242	Mr President, I don't need any more time to challenge Mr Deputy to accompany me to the illegal homes where the elderly are deposited...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u243	Ah! I'm not talking about illegal homes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u244	... and where they spend the day looking at a wall or subjected, too, to abuses, reality that we all know exists in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u245	As a matter of fact, it is beyond this incident. You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Homes are spaces that accommodate elderly people whose social, family, economic or health situation does not allow them to stay in their homes, ensuring the provision of adequate care to meet needs and, whenever the situation of the elderly allows it, seeking the incentive of their independence and social relationship, in order to ensure a healthy and happy life. As we know, the outbreaks that have occurred in the homes are not alien to the spread of the virus by the community, but are certainly determining the serious structural weaknesses of many of the homes, from the lack of space, of means, of human resources, such as geriatric assistants, nurses and doctors in appropriate numbers. If it was already obvious, more in this pandemic context was the need to strengthen human resources in the homes, to ensure the effectiveness of these workers and to provide them with adequate training. Only then will it be possible to combat the outbreaks and ensure the quality and comfort these users deserve. The homes of the elderly must have staff to ensure the provision of services 24 hours a day, with staff covering health personnel, sociocultural animation, geriatric technicians, direct action assistants, cooks, kitchen assistants, assistants, among others. However, the workers of these equipment must be valued, have decent rights, stability and wages. Over the years the State, by means of options of successive governments, has resigned from direct responsibility by delegating this competence to the social sector through cooperation contracts. However, controlled vacancies are manifestly insufficient in the face of needs, and it is necessary to increase vacancies in homes that are protocoled between social security and IPSS. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members, it is to be hoped that the impacts of the pandemic we are facing will help to put an end to disinvestment in public services, that the efforts that are being demanded today will mean such permanent reinforcement. Let this situation serve, once and for all, to bet on the creation of a network of public homes that responds to needs and to ensure that all elderly people, who want it, are placed in a equipment with quality responses. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u247	I have the floor, for the last intervention at this point before the intervention of the Government, Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, to whom the Bureau has not, however, allocated time in the first round, so there will now be some delay.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u248	Mr President, Mrs. Minister, I am delighted to see you recovered, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In March, the Liberal Initiative alerted to the risk situation in the homes. In August, with the situation of Reg goings home, the whole country stood out with the problem. In September, in the face of government inertia, we proposed measures and also questioned what happened in the situation of the illegal home of Évora. It was not due to lack of warning or proposals from various parties, not only the Liberal Initiative, that the Government did not control the situation of households. But what is true is that you did not control it. Just over a month ago, one third of the deaths by COVID-19, in Portugal — it was said — occurred in the homes of the elderly. I mean, the government failed. It is therefore urgent to do what we have been asking for months: to plan for rapid mass testing in the homes, users, employees and, as confinement is being lifted, also family members and visits. It is also very important that the Government does not fail to vaccinate these homes, nor allow bad examples, such as what has already happened when the socialist who is President of the House of Reg Duras of Monsaraz has been vaccinated, without belonging to any priority group. Although a member of a social body of that home, the author should not have been vaccinated, as admitted, in fact, the coordinator of the Vaccination Plan. The Minister said that the government would define control mechanisms for these and other situations where there is vaccination of people who do not have direct contact with home users. We hope they will be announced shortly. And we hope, above all, that they will come out of the role faster than the famous fast-intervention district brigades, which have never even covered the national territory. Those who fill their mouths with the slogan "don't leave anyone behind" would do well to start by not leaving the elderly behind, who are the most vulnerable of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u249	In order to close this debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Action, Rita Mendes, has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u250	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : I thank you all for this session in which we were able to express our concern about a strip of the population extremely vulnerable because of their age and which is hosted in residential structures for the elderly. And you are not welcomed in these structures by, let us say, the commodism of your families, but, yes, by the absolute need of this social response. Not being the only social response for elderly people, it is, however, often, or most of the time, and for those who are currently there, the right one and the only one who can respond to the need for social support and nursing care they need. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u251	But it does not, in fact, exhaust the answers to other needs of other older people with another profile, with another lack of support. in this sense, the Government, as already said by Mrs Minister, proposes to extend and promote other social responses which - that is the objective -, on the one hand, delay institutionalization and, on the other hand, maintain the elderly in their habitat, with their family, neighbourhood, social connections, and to which different services can be provided according to their real needs. This is the purpose, of course, with PARES, through the eligible SAD ( Home Support Service ), but also through applications to other responses for the elderly, who are increased if they have coupled the SAD response. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it has also been said by Mrs. Minister, in other hearings, that we intend to launch or universalize the Radar Social response, precisely with a set of technicians with a differentiated profile to respond at home to the needs of each elderly person and of each disabled person or other more vulnerable groups, depending on their real needs. As regards the homes, which is the subject that brings us here, as has already been said and even acknowledged, many have been the measures which, since the beginning of the pandemic, the government, in an intersectoral way, devoted to these answers, essentially to the elderly who are welcomed there, which is what concerns us. I would refuse to mention the enormous measures, but I mean that without them, in fact, and recently Dr. João Almeida said that it was impossible for everything to go well — it would certainly have been much, much worse. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u252	And with others it would have been even better!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u253	With regard to this concern and priority in relation to homes, I mean that we never excluded any one home, whether from the profit network, whether from the solidarity network, be those who have an irregular functioning, from the outset, through testing, from the beginning, in the intervention of the different entities in situations of outbreak, in the allocation of brigades and now in vaccination. With regard to illegal homes, the Minister has just said that we have referred to the Department of Monitoring 838 homes. [[No, no!]] The Secretary of State for Social Action — We are doing exactly what the PSD pointed out in its proposal. [[PSD protests.]] 838 homes and all illegal homes in municipalities where other institutions or other homes of the elderly are obviously being vaccinated will be included in the vaccination. But on the question of illegal homes, Mrs PSD, I think it is a responsibility of the Member of Parliament or the PSD bench to identify the illegal homes it refers to, just so that we can intervene in the best way and guard all the elderly who are welcomed there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] Madam Member, I also want to say that they were not left at random in the context of the pandemic. As I said, since the homes were identified, all existing measures have also been applied to residential structures without licensing. Regarding the new responses and the purpose of the Government, some have already been mentioned, such as the Social Radar, but I also refer to the strengthening of the home support service, the extension and requalification of ERPI(residential structures for the elderly ), through PARES 3.0, and also through the investment of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), already announced by the Minister, which will allow not only to requalify as well as increase the equipment network for the elderly. I also point out that the Government has strengthened the social participation of residential responses, precisely because it is aware of the increased costs that the institutions have had at this stage of the pandemic, and has also extended cooperation to older people in recent years. It was about 5000 elderly people who became covered by cooperation agreements and, responding to the question put by Mr João Dias, did so so that those elderly with less financial resources could access the responses and be privileged in access to them. With regard to rapid intervention brigades, not only are there, not only were they important and effective, but they are also being strengthened, as the Minister has just mentioned. They started with 400 elements and are now over 550 in support of residential structures for elderly people and other reception responses. Higher education students will also be mobilized for this timely support to emergency situations experienced by residential responses. They are more resources, they are more people allocated to a need that we all recognize. I would also like to say that users who are accommodated in residential structures are citizens of full rights and therefore, like any other citizen, have the right to access to the care and services of the national health system. As far as illegal homes are concerned, I cannot but repeat what was said by Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, because in fact not in 2012, but in 2015, the same source that is used today by the PSD to identify the number of homes identified 3000 homes in 2015. I remember the ladies. PSD members that the number of closures between 2012 and 2015 was only 342. [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] Household monitoring actions were also strengthened and more than 1100 monitoring actions were carried out. Joint visits by different entities within the pandemic have already been mentioned here. More: in 2019, the supervisory teams were strengthened, with more than 44 inspectors for this purpose. I would like to conclude by saying that the Government will continue, as it has so far and in all government areas, to accompany and support — untiring monitoring and support — the institutions and entities that welcome elderly people and have been warriors in the protection of their health and their lives in recent months. Often, when, in a way, we diabolize the outbreaks in the homes and what happens in the homes, we forget that we are breaking a confidence of the families that existed in relation to this social response and that, in this pandemic period, it is another concern that we may be causing them. On behalf of the Government, I would like to say that I am extremely grateful to all the institutions, all their leaders, all their employees for the commitment they have had and for all the work they have done in recent times with regard to the protection of those who care for them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u254	Mr. Secretary of State, please conclude. The Secretary of State for Social Action — I shall conclude by saying that I also recognize that, on this subject, concern is transversal to this House. Of course, we are available to accept criticism, to improve everything we need to improve, but above all we will be very receptive to all the proposals that can be positive and constructive and that can actually help us to do better than what we have done and that we have the consciousness that we have done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u255	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u256	The honourable Member shall, of course, refer to an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u257	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u258	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u259	Mr President, we have requested the floor for an appeal to the Bureau, following the statement by the Secretary of State for Social Action, which requested the PSD to deliver a list identifying illegal homes. For the sake of truth and to restore the seriousness in the debate, I will say that the PSD at no time, nor today nor before, said that it had a list of illegal homes. What the PSD said, and reiterates, is that there is a complaint from the sector's association, the Home Support Association and Older Houses, that still last week was heard in this House, in the Committee on Labour and Social Security. That is what the PSD said, that is, that there is this complaint and that the government needs to do its job and identify. Now, even to finish, I take advantage of this request to ask the Minister what we have asked for weeks ago: to say what is the list of the 788 illegal homes that said they were effectively identified for vaccination purposes...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u260	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u261	Mr President, the Secretary of State has just contradicted the Minister by saying that she was not 788 but 838! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u262	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u263	Mr Pereira asked for the floor to speak to the Bureau, certainly about the conduct of the work. Please intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u264	Yes, Mr President, it is about the conduct of the work. A short time ago, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group asked the Bureau to request the PSD Parliamentary Group to list more than 3,500 illegal homes, which was given in the rostrum by a PSD Member. I do not understand the intervention now made by another Member of the PSD, who is completely contradictory to what has been said in the rostrum,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u265	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u266	... but it seems to me - and in this respect we agree - that the government identifies almost 800 illegal homes and the PSD identifies 3,500. I insist again: send the list to find out who they are. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u267	Mr President, since the conduct of the work is at stake, the Bureau will make every effort to ensure that its claim can be met, but of course we cannot do more than make every effort. Nevertheless, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Duarte Cordeiro, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, to also ask the Bureau for the conduct of the work, I imagine.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u268	Mr President, in this particular case, and given that we have been directly questioned by a parliamentary group on this matter, I would like to say to Mrs Clara Marques Mendes that the Government has asked the Association for this list. We were not given, so I would like to know if it was given to the PSD, since an information from an association was cited. We requested this information and we were not given; perhaps it was given to the PSD. It was not by chance that we did not quote that information. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u269	We will close this incident, certainly relevant, but, if all agree, we would turn to point 4 and the last of our agenda, which consists in the general debate of the Bill No 69 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the sanctions regime applicable to infringement of Regulation ( EC ) No 2271 / 96 on protection against the effects of extraterritorial application of legislation adopted by a third country. To present the legislative initiative of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Defense, João Torres, to whom I greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government shall submit to the Assembly of the Republic the draft law under consideration, which, in summary terms, authorises the Government to approve the sanctioning regime applicable to infringements of Regulation (EC) No 2271 / 96 on protection against the effects of extraterritorial application of legislation adopted by a third country. I believe that it is appropriate and appropriate to seek to explain, in general terms, firstly, what this Regulation is and also what the sanction scheme is intended to be approved. Regulation (EC) No 2271/96 is a Community regulation which is built around an Annex. in this Annex, which is being updated from time to time, there is legislation approved by certain States, which determines sanctions, in particular of a commercial nature, to other States. The Regulation seeks to prevent any person in the Community — public, private, individual or collective — from cooperating in the implementation of the legislation listed in its Annex. The Regulation is therefore also often referred to as the « Blocking Statute » because it aims to block or neutralise, within the Community, the effects of the legislation adopted by certain States against other States, as well as all decisions, whether administrative or judicial, applying that legislation. in combating the illegal effects of the extraterritorial sanctions of third countries, the Statute of the European Union aims to protect operators engaged in international trade or the movement of capital, as well as trade activities related to third countries, in accordance with Union law. This is where the intervention of the Member States of the European Union comes into play. The Regulation in its Article 9. it provides that « Member States shall determine the penalties applicable to infringement of any relevant provisions of this Regulation », and that such penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u271	But he's been saying 24 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u272	That is why this provision must somehow lead the Member States to adopt a sanction scheme. The sanction scheme which is intended to be approved shall, in a few words: set limits, minimums and maximums, of the fines applicable; establish the possibility of fines to be increased up to three times, where the affected economic interests exceed EUR 10 million; assign to the Food and Economic Security Authority — ASEA — the quality of the supervisory authority and competence for the instruction and decision of the counter-ordination procedures; and establish a system for the punishment of negligence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The counter-ordinary framework for the described counter-ordinary regime is superior to that laid down in the General Counter-ordination Regime, which is why the Government needs legislative authorization from the Assembly of the Republic in order to be able to legislate in this matter, creating, as I mentioned earlier, an effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctioning regime. Not being the obligations arising from the Regulation — in particular the one referred to in Article 9. the Member States, in accordance with which they determine the penalties applicable to the violation of any relevant provisions of the Regulation - which are still included in the national legal system, and in respect of the powers of the Assembly of the Republic, comes the Government, with this initiative, requesting the respective authorisation, to adopt a sanction scheme, consolidating and stabilizing the application of this European Regulation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u273	The Bureau is waiting for very expectant inscriptions. You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u274	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating you and the Members. State Secretarys of State and to the Members and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The Government has been requesting a legislative authorization from the Assembly of the Republic to approve a penal system, which is contra-ordinary, applicable to the violation of the provisions of the Council Regulation of 22 November 1996. This issue is very current and deserves some consideration. From now on, this growing concern: in recent times we have seen a recent trend of increasing regulation in third countries, which aims to produce a legislative effect in the Member States of the European Union. With globalization, none of these regulations have successively violated the general principles of international law, namely the principle that no State can take measures on the territory of another without the consent of another State through the application of national laws. For example, recent measures taken by the United States of America and addressed to Iran, Cuba and Russia have become an indirectly critical challenge for the European Union. in order to prevent economic agents under the jurisdiction of the European Union from negotiating with the target countries of the Annex to which Mr. Secretary of State spoke, they are an important extraterritorial dimension affecting individuals and businesses and ultimately the sovereignty of the European Union and its Member States. Portugal must also contribute to the harmonious development of world trade and the progressive abolition of restrictions on international trade. Therefore, the Government comes to request this legislative authorization, contributing to the protection and neutralization of the effects of the extraterritorial application of the foreign legislation in question. But this request from the Government also deserves us to express some incredibleness. In the proposed law, which is accompanied by the draft authorized decree, it was not possible to decouple any elucidation on the part of the Government which explains why only now has this diploma presented to us. We know that the regulations are immediately applicable in the internal legal order of the Member States and that, contrary to the directives, they must not be transposed into national law. Nevertheless, I recall that the European Council regulation on the proposal for a law that the Government has brought to us today is 25 years old and has since forced the Member States to determine sanctions for its violation, something that only now the government has to bring about. It is therefore regrettable that the Government has failed to clarify why so far it has made this dead letter of law of the European Union, especially since January 1, when we have assumed the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u275	The PSD was also in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u276	Finally, I want to take note of one last concern. The proposed law suggests that the competence to initiate the instruction and instruction of their counter-ordination procedures lies with the Food and Economic Security Authority. However, there are numerous reports that have come to the public and that account for several monitoring actions promoted by ASAE related to the pandemic, with hundreds of economic operators to be subject to supervision. We must therefore regret that the Government has not held any hearings, has no documents, studies or opinions that base this decision, in particular, leaving this responsibility for a police force that is currently being suffocated. Finally, and by continuing to draw up the considerations that the initiative has merited to us, the PSD Parliamentary Group cannot fail to say that this proposal is inexplicably flawed because it is late, but which is essential for Portugal's contribution to strengthening the free movement of capital between Member States and third countries and to inform the principles underlying the creation of the European Union. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u277	The Bureau continues to wait with the same previous expectation other inscriptions. [[Pause.]] If VV. Ex.as they understand that they should not sign up... Mrs Sofia Matos made a clarification intervention and, as such, there are no other entries, this item on the agenda is closed...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u278	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u279	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u280	Mr. President, it's not to waste time. I have even wondered what the answer to Mrs Sofia Matos' question would be. What is the reason why, only now, over 25 years ago, an application has been made for authorization to legislate on this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u281	Any more Members would like to speak? [[Pause.]] Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, asks for the floor to intervene. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The proposal presented by the Government to this House is, at first sight, of simplicity which little or no controversy or even interventions could raise. What we are going to vote on is the authorization for the Government to legislate in the definition of the rules of application of a Community regulation—and, Mr President, we would not prefer that the debate should end if we did not have to speak, unlike you. However, the framework for non-compliance and the competent authorities for their supervision and follow-up are in the proposal presented and are, in particular, the ESAE and the Directorate-General for Economic Activities, in the application of Regulation (EC) No 2271 / 96 on protection against the effects of the extraterritorial application of legislation adopted by a third country and against measures based on or resulting from it. But if, at first sight, this matter seems to have little to be told, indeed, the implications and issues underlying it are far more significant: trade policy, international relations, international law; respect for the sovereignty of States, from the outset, starting with our own. This Community regulation was the European Union's response to the imposition by the Government of the United States of America of one of the most notorious acts of aggression and economic blockade with which it attempted to suffocate the Cuban people in their sovereignty and development. We are talking about the so-called « Helms-Burton Act », signed by President Clinton in 1996. That is what the annex refers to, Mr Secretary of State. The world's police, in their mission to spread democracy over the planet, use the bombs, but also use economic war, with reprisals, blackmails and punishments to anyone who relates to these "targets to be slaughtered", meaning sovereign countries listed in new or old "axis of evil". But it is imperative that the necessary measures be taken to ensure that international law prevails. It is imperative that, at the political, diplomatic, economic, commercial level, we assume and honour the commitment that respect for the sovereignty of peoples, equality between States and the principle of non-interference are fundamental values of our Constitution and non-letter-dead in the manuals of hypocrisy. Moreover, as time passed and the acts of aggression and interference on the commercial front were added by the United States of America, the scope of the so-called « Blocking Statute » was updated from this Community Regulation, which thus became included in its annex, in addition to the Torricelli Law and the Helms-Burton Law, successive extraterritorial application decisions aimed at Iran and, more recently, Syria. When, in 2019, the Government of the United States of America, with Mr. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, eliminated the suspension, i.e. reactivated the so-called « Title III of the Helms-Burton Law », it became even more indispensable to ensure the conditions to neutralize this violation of international law, including, in respect of the protection of Portuguese companies – to the extent that I doubt that this was the reason for the sudden rush that arose and that for more than 20 years did not exist. What's the problem here? The problem is certainly not in the measures to combat and protect against the extraterritorial application of these infamous laws, nor is it in the penal framework or in the competent authorities to apply them in Portugal. The problem is deeper in meaning, in the unmistakable meaning of trade policy being an exclusive competence of the European Union, in defining the trading partners and the objectives to be assumed, which are an important factor in economic sovereignty and which should not be alienated. Even because the political hypocrisy with which the European Union recognizes these violations of international law is known and protects its investors, it then commits others, in other geography, into a la carte policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u283	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u284	I'm done now, Mr. President. on this day when the anniversary of José Martí is celebrated, we greet the hero of the Cuban people, example of resistance that, over the years, offers to the world, defending sovereignty, facing threats, aggression and blockades; we greet all peoples who face these blockades and fight for development; and we reaffirm our commitment to defend and build our own path of sovereignty and development, in peace and in cooperation with all the peoples of the world. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u285	The next intervention lies with Mr Filipe Pacheco of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u286	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Trade, Consumer Services and Defence, Mr and Mr. Members, the Government today presents to this House a proposal for a bill to grant the Government a legislative authorization to approve a national sanction scheme, which comes from the so-called Block Statute, which is, let us say, a regulation in force in the European Union. What is this Blocking Statute? This Statute was originally adopted by the European Union, in 1996, in response to the legislation of the United States of America with extraterritorial sanctions to Cuba, at the time called the Helms-Burton Law. It is important, therefore, to state that this Blocking Statute created by the European Union was an important step forward and a unified response from Europe against the illicit effects of legislation created by other countries that clearly violate international law, Mr Bruno Dias, and we recognize that. But I also think it is important to remind Mrs Sofia Matos that it is necessary to remember the historical context, because if this blockade lost relevance in 1998 it was because the United States and the European Union signed a memorandum of understanding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u287	It's been changed seven times!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u288	... in which the United States agreed to suspend the application of certain provisions in sanctions. Therefore, there is a motivation for this blockade to have lost its relevance, which only more recently won again in 2018 with the exit of the United States of America from the nuclear agreement with Iran and with the consequent unilateral sanctions to which it had established business with operators in that country. This reality, as has already been mentioned, has led to the urgent need to protect the interests of European Union operators who are doing legitimate business with Iran or any other country which is target of sanctions. In essence, what we are discussing today is the protection of natural and collective people of the European Union to freely engage in international trade activities with countries that are being subject to sanctions. This Statute has a basic principle: operators of the European Union must comply with extraterritorial legislation or obey any sanction or external decision when the Union does not recognise its applicability. And go further. For example, it cancels the effect of any foreign decision at this level within the European Union, including judicial decisions. It also allows Community operators affected by this extraterritorial legislation to attempt to obtain compensation for damage to European Union courts and outlines specific situations in which operators may benefit from exceptions to this scheme, in particular in order to avoid serious damage to their interests. For all this, the Socialist Party is fully in line with the proposal for a legislative amendment which the Government brings here today, which also seems to me to have the support of the various parliamentary groups, because it gives shape to what is basically an important mechanism of foreign policy, but also of internal unity, at European level. To sum up this discussion, I would say that there are three main reasons for the relevance of this legislative authorization. First of all, on a practical point of view, because the Blocking Statute refers to the creation of this penalty framework for legislation to be adopted at national level, despite this Statute being a regulation, i.e. it has direct and immediate application to the citizens of the Member States, and it becomes necessary to supplement it with the sanctioning regime that the Government now proposes. Secondly, and as the Secretary of State has already mentioned, because the planned counter-ordinary framework is greater than that laid down in the general counter-ordinary system of counter-ordinations, so the Government necessarily needs this legislative authorization in order to be able to legislate and, in this case, to create an effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctioning regime. I also take advantage of a positive aspect, which is the fact that the Government is already joining the draft decree which it intends to approve, that is, today we know what the government wants and how it wants to legislate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u289	It was better, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u290	Finally, this proposal is justified because, by failing to control extraterritorial legislation that violates the rules of free trade and international law, we are still able to create instruments that protect Community operators as much as possible and neutralize the effects of this legislation at European level. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u291	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, and Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I shall begin by responding to the appeal of the Member of the Communist Party. You know, Mr. Member, I have heard Mr. Secretary of State speaking here, who has read a sort of technical note—well read! — which explained, in substance, what is being appreciated here. Then I heard here Mrs PSD, who also did a well-planned explanation, and explained exactly what is at stake here. Now, I was sitting here and I thought: 'Is it worth making an intervention, taking into account the explanations given here, either by the Secretary of State or by the honourable Member? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And he was looking forward to seeing the reaction of the left bench, particularly the Communist Party. What did we all expect? We expected, as it is evident, the defense of Cuba, the cartridge, the anti-American cassette. But, Mr President, I noticed that this was nothing new, it did not surprise us. We were thus obliged to make an intervention, of course, to say that, clearly, you still believe in a world that no longer exists, a world that does not work. But there is an evolution in the CFP intervention, because what is at stake is not only sanctions to Cuba, they are sanctions to Iran, they are sanctions to Russia. And why did you not mention, in this particular, Russia, for example? There has been some evolution of the Communist Party here, there has been some decision of the Central Committee that we have not been aware of? Eventually, yes. Eventually, something happened about that. It is true, Mr President, that he had here notes on the sanctions regime for infringement of the obligations of information, on the creation of a penalty for those who violate the imposition of direct or indirect non-compliance with a requirement and obligation based on the legislation in question, on the exaggeration in the fines, between 3000 and 30 000, between 5000 and 100 000, for infringements that are committed either by natural persons or by businesses. But more than the bet on the application of fines, there could be another way, at the level of awareness, of prevention, of the disclosure of the reporting obligations contained in the regulation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u293	So we do not criticise this sanctions regime, we will vote for it, but we cannot fully agree with the way and the forms in which it may be authorized to the Government. I'm done, ladies. Secretary of State, Mr. President, an intervention which I have been obliged to make... [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ...saying that, otherwise, if there had been some containment from an ideological and programmatic point of view, I would not have to make this same intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u294	If none of the political forces still available wishes to sign up, and I suppose not, because of the investigation that the Bureau has made, we are going to end up with the closure. The two minutes to close the debate are for the Government. Thus, Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Consumer Services and Defense, João Torres, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to thank the various speeches. In fact, all the acts of the Assembly of the Republic have a political dimension and when the Government comes here, even if it attempts to explain pedagogically a proposal that has a strong technical dimension—because here we are not discussing the regulation, we are discussing the counter-ordinary framework associated with the regulation—that does not cease to have a political reading either. I do not think it is up to me at this very moment to discuss the nature of the regulation, but rather a provision which can only be adopted by each of the Member States of the European Union and which has to do with the counter-ordinations applicable in the event of non-compliance with the regulation. The regulations, as mentioned here, have a direct and immediate application, but I did not want to fail to answer the questions that have been raised. The first of them is, I would say, very reasonable: why only now? In fact, it has also been mentioned here by one Member who, over the past 20 years since 1996, there have been periods, perhaps, of greater visibility and of greater and lesser mediatism of the Blocking Statute, in the face of geopolitical decisions by third States other than the European Union. What I have to say about this is that I feel, as a member of the Government, to do what is right, which is to do what should perhaps already have been done, not without pointing out that, in any event, the first reference that exists to the need for approval—of the screening I could do — date of the year 2012, with communications directed at the then protection by the public administration body, these were later reinforced in February 2013. Therefore, I am not saying that it should have been the Government X or Y doing this, I just want to say that the Government is doing what it should, from the point of view of its obligations, and I think that is essentially what unites us. A second question has to do with ASAE.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u296	Mr. Secretary of State, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u297	I'll finish, Mr. President, I'm sorry. As I said, a second question has to do with ASAE, which was considered by the different bodies of the Public Administration, and also according to a working group that was created just before 2012 as the body that should, or could, assume this responsibility. I have the greatest respect and appreciation for the work that ASAE is doing. I do not have time to extend or explore this subject, which I would like to do, given the remarkable operational capacity that this organisation has devoted, especially in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u298	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u299	Mr President, just to finish, if I may, I would also like to say — which has already been mentioned here in some way — that this approval has nothing to do with a specific case of a company or a matter that has been raised, it has to do with only the fact that we will finally be implementing, in its entirety and completeness, a regulation adopted initially in 1996. Mr. President, thank you for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u300	We thus close our agenda for today. The Bureau shall submit its farewells to the members of the Government. Tomorrow, the plenary will meet at 9 a.m. — it is necessary to pay attention to this change of normal time — and we will have a six-point agenda. The first point is the debate in plenary session with the participation of the Government, at the beginning of each Presidency of the Council of the European Union, on their priorities, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( c ). the Law No 43 / 2006, of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012, of 17 May. of the second point is the discussion of the motion for a resolution No 18 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves Council Decision ( EU, Euratom ) 2020 / 2053 of 14 December 2020 on the European Union own resources system and repealing Decision 2014 / 335 / EU, Euratom. In the third point, we will discuss, together and in general, the Proposal for a Law No 68 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Defines the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of fragesias and drafts of Law Nos 151 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the regime for the replacement of extinct strawberries, 620 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Reposition of frequencies and 640 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — establishes the legal regime for the creation, modification and extinction of strawberries. The fourth point is the assessment of the Bill No 70 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — establishes a system for the suspension of procedural and procedural deadlines resulting from the measures adopted under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. of the fifth point is the discussion of Parliamentary Assessments Nos 25 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 24 / XIV / 1. a ( BE), concerning Decree-Law No 33 -A / 2020, of 2 July, which proceeds to public ownership due to the nationalization of the social participation held by Winterfell 2 Limited in Efacec Power Solutions, SGPS, S. A. of the sixth and final point are the voting of the Rules of Procedure. The Secretary of the Bureau will still make an announcement before the work is closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u301	Mr. President and Mr. Members : I inform the House that you were present by video conference. Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves and Mr Sérgio Marques, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, as well as Mr Sr. Elza Pais, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Fernando Anastácio, Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha, Pedro do Carmo and Susana Correia, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and still Mr. Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, and Mr João Oliveira, from the PCP Parliamentary Group. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-28.u302	Thank you, Secretary of the Bureau. All, if any, we wish improvements and continuation of a good afternoon. See you tomorrow. The sitting is thus closed. [[It was 18 hours and 21 minutes.]]
