ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] The agenda for today contains several points, one of which — the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 584 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) and 626 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — was however withdrawn at the Conference of Leaders, at the request of the CDS-PP and for serious reasons related to a family member very close to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, so I wanted to send you here a big hug. Before we begin the discussion of the first item on the agenda, Secretary Nelson Peralta will take account of the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill 645 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 646 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, and 647 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission. The Resolution Projects Nos. 857 / XIV / 2 were also included in the Table. a ( ENP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 858 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 859 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 860 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the term of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission for losses registered by the New Bank and charged to the Resolution Fund, 861 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 9. the Commission, and 862 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u3	Let us then begin the discussion of the Resolution Project No. 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the simplification of communication between the different educational actors and between the different levels of education. In the meantime, I can inform you. Members that the quorum for the purpose of voting is already completely exceeded, so at any time there is quorum for any vote. To present the Resolution Project No. 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is undeniable that we have witnessed enormous changes in the lives of organizations and that technologies do not solve all problems. It is undeniable that knowledge depends on the intersection between strategy, structure, organizational processes and knowledge of people. Technology is thus merely instrumental: it facilitates the management of knowledge. And that is why the Socialist Party has been the major driving force behind the reorientation of public policies to new agendas such as digital transition, administrative modernization or artificial intelligence in Public Administration ( AP ). If only with strong public services we have a true social cohesion, then the true, unique and continuous reform of the State is that of modernizing its Public Administration. It is with this concern that the Strategy for the Innovation and Modernization of the State and Public Administration, adopted in July 2020, states the following : « (... ) The Government should strengthen the capacity to create value, cultivate a permanent relationship with the community, promote the active involvement of citizens and companies and develop an innovative, open AP, aware of the challenges of sustainability, capable of delivering public services appropriate to the real needs of people and to monitor the evolution of the demands of life in society. Do not keep on seeking. ” This draft resolution responds to these concerns: it invests in people; it develops communication between services and citizens; it explores the technological means and strengthens proximity. We clearly assume that administrative simplification, the improvement of services provided digitally, the promotion of access and usability of services, and the dematerialization of administrative procedures are a bet of this parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, building a modern and innovative country means thinking about citizens and empowering them, betting on their training, education and science. This investment should stimulate access to education and lifelong learning, facilitating access to the Internet, as well as learning in different aspects. We defend that the connection of services to citizens should begin early, and it must be continuous. Therefore, we propose that, in the same way as it is guaranteed to higher education students an electronic mail account, be provided a mail account to all students of any teaching cycle and that this is always the same throughout academic life, even if academic life is interrupted. Likewise, the electronic identity of all professionals in education must be guaranteed, whether they are teachers or not. It makes no sense that, for any reason of mobility, you change your email account or that the operating assistants do not have e-mail. Only with the enlargement of this instrument can we seriously combat digital iliteracy. We also endorse the principle that information integration models should provide a single point of entry, the so-called "single windows" or place of single information provision. On the other hand, we propose that these changes be accompanied by clearly specific and always necessary training, because we cannot leave anyone behind in this process of continuous change. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes, through this draft resolution, that the Government: create an institutional communication system for basic and secondary education, making available to all members of educational communities — teachers, non-teachers and students — a unique and stable electronic identity during the relevant school or professional course, ensuring that communication between all participants in the educational community is simplified, in a broad sense; ensure that this system preserves the mobility of the electronic identity of the educational path for higher education, integrating it with the authentication systems valid at the international level; create a single portal that integrates existing platforms and portals at the service of educational establishments, protected by the government area of education with a single entry; and finally establish a training plan to support the efforts of school leaders in promoting management practices that align transparency, simplification and deburocratization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that we have quorum for all votes. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u6	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the note you have left with Mrs Cecilia Meireles. The Socialist Party brings us today the discussion of a draft resolution which aims, and I quote, "the simplification of communication between the different educational actors and between the different levels of education" and which therefore combines administrative modernization with the digital transition, in a recipe that the PS has long invented and whose name, given by the PS itself, is Simplex. So we already know this. So I thought it was a good idea to go to the Simplex to see what was said about this to see how tuned the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group was with its government. And what did I find? As for the first recommendation of your draft resolution, which says « Create an institutional communication system(...) a unique and stable electronic identity(...) ensuring the simplification of communication between all actors(...) », i.e. Mrs Deputy, it is called « System of Institutional Communication of Schools », which is supposed to be ready, if Mrs Deputy does not know, in the fourth quarter of this year and has exactly the same description, and I am going to save myself from her draft resolution. I don't know if Mrs. Member has heard of something invented recently, Gmail, which is an electronic mailbox that allows communication between people free of charge and has a great capacity, which is already widely used and that does not have to change, people can keep that for the rest of their lives, Mrs. Member. Honestly, I think that, in the face of a pandemic, if there is no internet, if there are no computers and if we are at risk of teaching again at a distance, if the great concern of the PS is to come here to propose a measure that is already in the Simplex and that can be resolved, as, moreover, schools naturally solve, in other ways, free, with greater technical capacity and robustness, this seems to me a little sui generis. But, finally, let's go on. With regard to the third recommendation — since the second recommendation is related to the first one — which says « Create a single portal that integrates existing platforms and portals into the service of educational establishments protected by the government area of education (...) », this also appears in the Simplex, as the honourable Member should know, and is a measure that has exactly the same description and which is called « Education Portal : access @edu » and is also supposed to be ready in the fourth quarter of 2021. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, of two, one : either the Socialist Party does not believe in the Simplex and, in this case, it is better to present this draft resolution to see whether the Government does something — something with which I am completely supportive because it is true that the Government moves very slowly in the area of education on this subject — or then I do not understand what they are doing here. Now, if we look at the Simplex and we go to consult, further back, the Simplex 2018, we see that it pointed to something the government was supposed to have done and would have done very well now, that it was, at the end of the third quarter of 2018, the government had carried out national external assessment tests in the electronic environment, dematerialized, i.e., the measurement tests were to be electronic. Have you seen what would make it easier, for those who like proof of measurement, for whom the government has done what it committed to in 2018? Oh, my God! Therefore, unless you explain better, I do not understand the relevance, relevance, the objective of this draft resolution. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u7	Mr António Cunha, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presentation of this draft resolution by the Socialist Party brings me back to 2016 at the presentation of the Simplex, in which the Prime Minister clearly won that « there is no impossible ». And to prove his thesis, he delivered a « flying cow » to then Minister of the Presidency, Leitão Marques. in this same event, António Costa also said that 2017 would be the first year of the « zero paper», therefore the year without any paper expenses in the Public Administration! It goes from there, excited by your own enthusiasm, also guaranteed that 2018 should be the year without service cars within the city. We all know how the members of the government moved to this House yesterday! There are no ideas, but, in fact, cows don't fly, nor do they fly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In May 2018, the first edition of the Gestech ( EDU ) event was held, which had as its main mission the digital transformation of the educational system. But from here, from this foundational intention, after six State budgets approved and viable by the left, the digital transition, the use of digital technologies and the consequent flexibility and simplification of work processes in schools takes time to arrive and does not go beyond paper. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, really wanted to remove the paper—probably, he removed this one. It must be remembered that the digital infrastructure of schools consists of hardware, software, connectivity, learning environments, tools and digital devices. Now, the Government of Greenland with the digital transition in schools has lined up eight measures in the Simple + 2020 for education, but when it is to literally put hands in the mass, the frenzy is quickly over because whoever sends money is the Minister of Finance and, as we know, from Centeno to Leon keeps captivating. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No digital infrastructure, the so ambitious digital transition in schools is a mirage and nothing but mere demagogic propaganda. The government, six years in power, has any structured investment plan, thought, calculated for the necessary digital infrastructure in schools? Continues waiting for the grants of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Well, this draft resolution of the Socialist Party is strange, not because of the explanatory statement, but because of the recommendations to the Government that it supports in this House, since 2015. With this draft resolution you are recommending to your Government two measures which are part of the so-called Simplex + 2020, as Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has already mentioned. As to: measure 102 — System of Institutional Communication of Schools ( SCIE ), which corresponds to points 1 and 2 of your draft resolution ; and measure 103 — Portal of Education: Access @Edu, which corresponds to point 3. Both are expected to be implemented for the fourth quarter of 2021. Ironically, the PS Parliamentary Group recommends that its Government do what it has already proposed to do. Two: either they do not believe that the government meets the deadline for implementation and therefore they make a reminder here, or then they want to show service or propaganda with proposals that the government has already planned and that are public.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u9	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u10	We can conclude that VV. Do you not trust your Government and remember, through this draft resolution, that the measures are to implement or to recommend to the Government that it anticipate the implementation deadline for these two measures? That'd be good. Now, what we know is that, in the government area of education, many of the Simplex measures of 2016 and subsequent years have not yet been executed and remained for the Greek calendars. We ask: What will be the degree of implementation and implementation of the eight Simplex + 2020 measures at the moment? For example, with the project E360, which appears in the Simplex + 2017, it has already spent 2, 6 million euros, but it takes time to impose itself in public schools and saw its extended implementation deadline for the fourth quarter of 2022. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without a serious and ambitious programme of total renewal of obsolete school computer equipment, through the acquisition of computers, tablets, projectors, interactive frames, a program to install in all high-performance internet schools, the so ambitious digital transition is a mirage and the measures of the Simplex to the government area of education will not go away from pure demagogic propaganda. Our educational building must be built from the foundations and not from the roof. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u11	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, with all the technologies that we have today, it is quite possible to do better. It is clear that in ministries such as education or even health, digital tools enable better organization, monitoring and quality of work and ensure greater efficiency and integration of information. What makes no sense is, for example, that the government is not using the potential of these tools in educational management or, if we look at health, for example, using these tools to ensure access to multi-purpose attestation for people who are still waiting for it. We remember—and we have already said this several times—for example, the current system of interoperability necessary for the allocation of scholarships for university accommodation, a system that requires data integration between various bodies, but which, due to its limitations, has brought many difficulties and many delays in the allocation of these support to university students. We therefore believe that this is also an opportunity for the Government to resolve this problem. Modernisation and administrative simplification are, in fact, essential. We want an innovative country, able to give the best answers to all people, but the truth is that the area of education has not been an example of this nor has it been going at the same speed as other sectors of the Public Administration. In education, the current health context further highlighted this need, requiring skills of digital literacy to educational communities. Despite their efforts, however, these educational communities broke out in front of the lack of equipment for a full digital transition, so long promised by the government — indeed, promised at the beginning of the school year. Of course it's possible to do more, but we need to invest. And it is possible to do more as long as education does not become even more bureaucratic, provided that tools are implemented that facilitate the work of teachers, the learning of children and the school management procedures. A greater capacity to organize, update and access to information for each student, each student and his/her school journey will facilitate the communication and management of school processes, but it is also important to monitor educational courses, including students moving from school, moving from area to area or even early leaving school, facilitating the knowledge of this reality and its analysis at national level. It is, in fact, essential to do more, but it is also essential that information be transparent, accessible to all and useful for everyone's knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u13	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS brings us today a proposal full of good intentions, namely, digital transition, modernisation and administrative simplification, the use of digital technologies and flexibility. It's all very nice, but unfortunately, it's just good intentions, because we still have schools where computer material is obsolete, with computers that don't work. Unfortunately, the reality we live in reveals that there are many children who, being in isolation at home, are looking after colleagues' phones to attend classes. In many schools, electrical frames do not bear the load of the equipment set, even if only half a dozen heaters and a few computers. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all the houses that are needed are built, but there is no beginning on the roof. The steps taken towards digital transition stumble on the most basic obstacles. Otherwise, let's see: the teachers who trained on a platform that the Ministry of Education says they want to implement, which has the epithet E360, concluded that this is much more complex and inefficient than the one they used. Several promises were made, followed by delays. At the beginning of the year, teachers thought that they would start using the so-called platform, but nothing until today. And there are still many doubts about teachers, who are sunk into bureaucrats, forced to fill personal data and students in everything that is the official platform of the Ministry of Education. The work that teachers have just had to do at each moment has not been reduced with access to new technologies; on the contrary, this is a systematic obligation to access platforms to introduce data or respond to official surveys. On the platform of the Interactive System of Human Resources Management of Education, teachers are systematically asked to update personal data, as they disappear. in this field, everything that is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education or the administrative services of schools has become the responsibility of the teacher, who supports all the burden of any failure. The platform where the education officers make the students' registrations is so inefficient that many end up going to schools to do so, even in a pandemic period. In addition, there are personal data to be circulated through the Internet in everything that is site: teachers' schedules, classes listings, student biographical records and even medical attestations. We can therefore conclude that the question of personal data security is far from being achieved, such as the digital transition, so necessary for public services. But, being made to trampoons, it will be difficult to reach it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u15	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bureaucracy in schools is a problem that affects the teaching/learning process, because it steals a lot of the time that workers have, precisely, to devote themselves to what they should devote. They become engrossed in endless processes, in platforms that are changing and in a series of complications that do not allow them to make time for other issues, which would be of much greater interest. In fact, the CFP considers that it is good to simplify and unbureauty, but the measures which the Socialist Party brings here, in this draft resolution, end up being short and to sin widely in the face of the needs that are placed at schools and which have been successively reported and which, in fact, arrive here at the Assembly of the Republic, very often. When we talk to the teachers, to the secretaries' workers, what do they complain about? They complain about myriads of things: platforms, paperwork, surveys, everything and something else that they have to insert here, there and there and that suddenly it has to be all for yesterday and not from here a little bit... Finally, a great confusion in schools, because indeed there is a huge bureaucracy, which has to be eliminated. It is also mentioned in the draft resolution — and this is another fundamental issue — on a single portal. Correct! After I don't know how many platforms, portals, passwords, etc. , it was in fact positive to ensure the interoperability of all digital tools and convergence for a single access. However, we stumble in reality, we clearly stumble in what is reality. It's because it's not enough to do this. It is a path that must be followed, it is true, but we must think of the number of limitations schools have in relation to infrastructure, obsolete computer equipment... We are now in the Assembly of the Republic, talking about this issue, but, with the reality that often they have in their hands, with certainty that these workers will feel miles from a distant future, which is what we are talking about now. So it seems to us that we need to have this sensitivity, that, indeed, there is still much to be done and that we need to lay the foundations to solve all the problems of schools. We also question — and this has already been widely mentioned — when these measures are already planned for implementation, the reason for the presentation of this draft resolution, because in a way it does not seem to warm or cool. As it is relatively harmless in this respect, it seems to us that at the moment there are many other priority issues for intervention in the school environment that should also be considered. This project could have another interesting dimension, which we call here: on the one hand, not only recommend what is already planned for implementation on the other hand, but eventually point to solutions such as ensuring that the State would have the means and workers to build their own digital tools, adapting their needs, production, their work to the public service objectives that are affected by schools, and on the other hand—an issue that we think would be fundamental—to listen to the users of the current platforms, to build a solution and no longer a complication. And this is important. Often, what comes to us from schools is that this listening work is not being done and no solutions are being found to ensure that, also digitally, all this is going well. I should like to conclude by saying: simplification and deburocratization, yes, sir, but always recalling the need to ensure the democratic participation of all workers in these processes and that democratic management would also be needed in this kind of circumstance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u18	Mrs Alexandra Vieira, from the Left Block, the word is yours. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to congratulate the President, the Bureau, the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The speed of current times leads to the forgetting of educational policy measures that are, over time, completely set aside. This means, with regard to the now-called « digital transition », that the effort to provide schools and the educational community with the tools and skills to be able to operate in what has already been called a « information society » is at least two decades ago. This draft resolution does not bring anything new in this area and, what is beginning to be serious, makes the table of all previous initiatives. Examples are the Minerva Project, the 21st Century Programme, the Internet Programme at School and the first phase of the technology programme of schools. I highlight the latter because it was the only one that included ways of acquiring equipment for students and also for teachers and gave massively schools with computers, multimedia projectors, interactive tables and computer rooms. What did these initiatives have in common? They wanted the use of ICT (Information and Communication Technologies) and the Internet to have a pedagogical and educational framework, contributing education to digital literacy. Continuing training accompanied these processes: diversified, pedagogical and didactic training, but also in the user's perspective, which generated collaborative work among teachers. We already have multiple forms of digitization of the processes, which do not alleviate or simplify the bureaucratic burden, increase it and thicken it. At all times, and in short time, it is requested to fill in inundable questionnaires on multiple platforms, stocks, installations, examinations, national tests, professional courses, accounting and financial records, evaluation and now the COVID registration. The list doesn't end here and it's a real saga. I highlight SIGRHE — the Interactive System of Human Resources Management of Education — where each teacher has its own area, consults information and makes its contest. However, the Ministry of Education and the Director share information about this teacher, who is neither visible nor accessible to himself, such as the date on which he changes steps. Where is data protection and transparency? It is not shown that more technologies will ease work and improve communication and processes. What really improves is remote control, as mentioned by Licinio Lima, increasingly centralized schools and groupings, very visible in the new management platform of students of the Ministry of Education, the E360, which, in fact, sets out this design — that of centralization. This means that, since the PS in the government since 2015, it has not yet begun efforts to renew the computer park of schools, has not expanded the capacity of the networks, has not opened possibilities for purchasing affordable equipment for teachers and students, has not resumed continuing training. Here came the pandemic and made the weaknesses visible: students and teachers in the home confined in teaching not present, but without equipment and without rapid internet connection. And now what does the government do? Little or nothing. It announces computers in barda for schools, but only for students and compulsory training for teachers, even for those who have already developed digital skills. Once again, this is an erratic and disqualified pedagogical and didactical attempt, only in order to train teachers quickly for non-presental teaching. However, what is really needed, a platform of the Ministry of Education for distance learning that allows access to learning materials, small groups of students virtually in collaborative work and sharing learnings neither a glimpse nor is reflected in this PS resolution project. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u20	Mr. José Magalhães, I would be grateful if you could turn off your microphone or speak a little bit lower, please. It is that if you are listening to your voice—which is indeed a voice I know well—that is why I asked you to speak a little bit lower. Thank you very much. To exhaust the time the PS has still available, I once again give the floor to Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u21	Mr President, thanking the interventions that brought us here with the various concerns expressed, I began by saying to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa that comparing the Gmail system with the institutional system available to all educational actors can only be a joke and a misunderstanding of what we bring here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I also tell you, Mrs. Member, that this only means and only reinforces the reason why the CDS has always been against the Simplex...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u22	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u23	... and why, with the PSD and CDS government, we stopped at that time and we did not move forward from that point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member has already forgotten the opposition that they did when it was really necessary to start all digitization in schools, but I remember—and we have already talked to both of them in plenary — some recent measures that have been brought to schools and that are, in fact, important: the technological instruments for online registration of exams; the realization of the external competition of teachers, totally online; and the creation of the new registration portal. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, you have come here to say that all you do is little, but, of course, something has been done! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] That is to say, this issue which did not bring anything new, after all, we have had a long time to discuss it and, if they are so in favour of the recitals, then please vote in favour of the draft resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u24	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor for the closing of this debate, which has two minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whether this debate takes place at a time of profound seriousness in combating the pandemic. And, in fact, this project is becoming even more meaningful today, with the clear perception that the structure of the State response has to continue its efforts to digitize itself, it has to be disbursed and has to have better means of obtaining and sharing information. This initiative therefore reinforces this commitment to the strengthening of schools, to strengthening their autonomy, but also to the importance of this autonomy being strengthened with appropriate information sharing mechanisms and essentially to making it possible to find tools to ease bureaucratic work in schools. It is essential that we can contribute to freeing as much as possible the teachers' time for what they are most decisive, which is precisely their ability to teach. That's why, sirs. Members, as we have done in other areas of the State, we consider it essential to take steps in order to simplify the bureaucracy and improve the answer we give, giving visibility to this issue, because a response that is combined with the effort in the technical training of schools, with the acquisition of current computer material, to the efforts to develop at the level of infrastructure, but also, fundamental part, to the training of teachers must be accompanied by other initiatives, as we have done in other areas. I should therefore like to conclude this speech with this challenge that the other parliamentary groups accompany us in this draft resolution, giving strength to a concern that we believe to be of everyone: a school in the future, increasingly prepared in its mission to leave no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u26	After the debate on the first item on the agenda, we move on to the second item, with the joint assessment, in general, of Bills Nos. 591 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Introduction of mechanisms to control the electronic distribution of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction proceedings by amending the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals, approved by Law No 15 / 2002 of 22 February 2002 and the thirty-third amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October, 553 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Introduction of mechanisms to control the electronic distribution of judicial proceedings, making the tenth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June, and 641 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates transparency and scrutiny mechanisms in the distribution of judicial proceedings, amending the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs. Mónica Quintela. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With these two legislative initiatives, one for the common jurisdiction and one for the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction, the PSD intends to introduce mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring the distribution of proceedings in the courts of first instance and in the higher courts. The credibility of the system of distribution of judicial proceedings has been called into question, as we all know, being public that allows the manipulation of the draw, choosing a certain judge to decide a particular process, with serious violation of the principle of the natural judge and causing strong and comprehensible disregard for citizens' confidence in justice. It is common to hear the Public Prosecutor's Office and the lawyers say that they want to assist in the distribution of certain processes, which emphasizes the evidence of the possibility of addiction of draws. The situation is serious and for a long time it should have made all the bells sound imposing the change. The principle of the natural judge, expressly provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, prohibits the arbitrary choice of the judge in order to ensure the impartiality and independence of the decision-maker and to which all citizens are entitled. But the judge's choice is inseparable from the interest in which he is and not anyone else to decide the cause, that is, from the marketing of justice to corruption. For some reason, the draw is manipulated to choose that concrete judge and this we cannot accept,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u29	... under the penalty of ruining the foundations of the democratic rule of law. This is superparty, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The possibility of manipulation exists in electronic distribution and manual distribution and the only way to limit such manipulation is to introduce supervisory mechanisms by several people. We therefore propose that the distribution be chaired by a judge, secretary of a judicial official and with the compulsory assistance of the Public Prosecutor's Office and a lawyer appointed by the Advocates' Order, if this entity is able to designate and have them available. These people should intervene in a rotational manner, avoiding repetition of presences as a prophylactic form of prevention of corruptive behaviors. We also propose that the list of judges who go to the distribution integrate all names and that, when a judge is drawn, prevented from intervening in this process for any of the reasons laid down in the law, this should be recorded in a deed signed by all, and that the draw be repeated. We know that often draws are repeated until the judge wants to leave. This happens, in practice. It is also required to publish the results of all draws and not only the official, which is published on the page of the Ministry of Justice. What we propose is that all distribution operations — and which are various and which are not listed in the official lists — be supervised by several persons and always be documented in a manner, duly signed by all actors. It is also fundamental that the distribution includes the attached judges and not only the rapporteur judge, as is currently the case. This is so that the composition of the collective is diversified and does not always have the same pair in the crime or trio in the civil processes to work together, avoiding unwanted complicities, which can lead to little careful readings and even signing a cross by the attached judges. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the judicial system is the cornerstone of our society and it is an absolute imperative: to fight for good administration of justice and for restoring citizens' confidence in the courts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u30	I now give the floor to Mr André Silva of the NAP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u31	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In recent years, we have seen a number of cases that lie on justice a cover of suspicion and demonstrate that this is not a world free from the risks of corruption, a phenomenon which the NAP is trying to combat in various areas and domains. These cases show us that justice can also be a place of business and favors and a place where contempt for incompatibilities and the prevention of conflicts of interest can be as serious a problem as in politics or in public administration. One of the cases that most demonstrated this reality concerned the distribution of processes by the judges, who discovered a set of weaknesses and weaknesses, which can allow manipulations in this distribution. In the background, weaknesses that allow for true ad-hum draw, which call into question the principles of the natural judge and the independence and impartiality of the courts and — Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear — when these basic principles are called into question, the confidence of citizens in justice and in the rule of democratic law itself is called into question. That is why it is up to Parliament, as a sovereign body, to avoid populism, that nothing solves, and to look at this problem in a serious, responsible and balanced way. That is what we tried to do, but we did it without being closed in ourselves, listening to the various actors in the judicial system. in this auscultation, we realized that there was a need to remove two major problems. On the one hand, it is necessary to avoid extrapolating the problems of process drawing, that is, there is a need not to confuse the goodness of this mechanism of modernizing justice with the vulnerabilities and bad practices, identified in terms of the situations of manual process distribution, in which the rules of automatic distribution do not apply. That is, the problem here is not only that of the electronic drawing, but also that of the manual drawing. On the other hand, the same Parliament that always speaks in justice complains of its laxity cannot fall into the temptation to think that the way is to take steps back in the modernization of the judicial system, which will only bureaucracy and make our justice slower. On the basis of these assumptions, the NAP today brings to the debate a proposal for a surgical amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, which seeks that, where the need to proceed with the manual allocation of a case to a judge or the need to make a new distribution of the case because it has been distributed to a prevented judge, the judge responsible for that decision will have to justify and substantiate, explaining the respective legal grounds and identifying, where applicable, the cause of the impediment. This information should be given in an autonomous field and should be published in the disclosure pattern of the result, which is available on the public access computer page of the Ministry of Justice. This proposal prevents, by means of transparency and the strengthening of scrutiny mechanisms, the risks which several media cases have shown us to have existed in the distribution of processes. This proposal is defended by several stakeholders in the justice system, with emphasis on the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and therefore should generally be approved as well as the very relevant proposals of the PSD, which will deserve our vote in favour. We note, however, that the process of discussion in the specialty should seek to be careful and as broad as possible, listening to those involved in the judicial system and specialists, in order to seek solutions to the problems of process distribution. One of these solutions necessarily involves a robust computer system, which seems to us to be able to be achieved, for example, through mandatory audits to software algorithms, to be executed by independent entity. It remains to be known whether the forecast of this obligation will be more effective by law or by another alternative way, but here we will be to take an active part in the debate on the specialty, if Parliament understands that this must happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u32	I give the floor to Mr José Magalhães of the PS, now using the decibels to understand. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals we are now discussing have been examined by 1. the Commission — I was rapporteur for the draft laws and, in this quality, I studied the opinions and answers given by several entities — and they equalise an important and essential problem for confidence in courts and justice. We all know the root of these initiatives, and that root is the most regrettable one can imagine. In fact, it is unimaginable, it happened before our eyes and only one chance, really a big chance, is that it allowed it to be discovered that it had happened what we now know. But we still do not know, because at a meeting with the President of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy and the Supreme Court, which took place in the Senate Chamber, we were promised to send the audit to find out what state of distribution at the national level, and this, many months later, has not yet occurred. Therefore, our wisdom, let us say this, that it would have to be imported, is insufficient to issue at least one judgment based on this document and, indeed, we have no other, since we ourselves have not sought to ascertain the status quo. What we know, however, is enough to equalize what should be done and what should not be done, what should be done by legislation and what should not be done by legislation. As it has now been remembered, the audits to the old algorithm, which is from the beginning of the century, and the algorithms age, must be a habitual, trivial thing. There is no reason not to be made regularly and must be made by anyone who knows. They shall not be made by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy or by the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, they must be done by duly accredited experts who pass through all links of fitness verification, etc. There can be no secret for them about this secret of state that seems to be the algorithm of distribution in our courts. This is a problem that arises, but does not require legislative intervention, since this can be done through mechanisms of determination, by whom it is competent, and of care, of course, because it is not conceivable another situation. The second aspect to be taken into account is to test the old test that is recommended to legislators, which is to know whether it is possible to obtain benefits, at the level of scrutiny and transparency of the system, through simpler or less impacted solutions in the daily work of the courts. And the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry — this must be said, because if not, we are to judge that you said what you did not say — alert the Assembly of the Republic to the proposed solution based on the assumption that the procedural acts and distribution, in particular, are practised in physical support, « (...) when today (for years)... » — and I am quoting — «... the judicial process is already an electronic process and distribution is an act practiced exclusively by electronic means. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let's not go back, we can't go back, it's not even conceivable that we're going back to the paper! We can, of course, and that is not difficult, indeed, I believe that the Supreme Council of the Magistrate and the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry can take organizational measures in the way that distributions are done, to have more complete records of whom I intervene, who has been, what you have done, how many times you have inserted, to avoid unpleasant situations and, indeed, worse than that, to prevent a successful person from having a permanent and eternal partner and that there are situations like the one that happened at the Harbour Court, with a Judge declaring that he had signed a cross, which is also an unimaginable thing, but may happen. Therefore, Mr President, we cannot follow a legislative operation, whose need is not demonstrated and which could have a bureaucratic impact on the functioning of the courts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u34	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The need for transparency in the functioning of the judicial system is, of course, a requirement of first importance, with a view to their credibility in the eyes of all. We are well reminded of relatively recent situations in which there has been a wide-ranging social alarm and reprobation, justified precisely by practices involving the allocation of cases to specific judges or the collectives in particular, which have raised, and of course continue to raise the greatest doubts and reservations, as must be a rule of law. We are also reminded that, in the hearing held in this House of the Republic to the President of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, Mr Desbargador at the time said...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u36	Counselor!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u37	Mr. Counsellor, I'm sorry, you're absolutely right! As you said, Mr Councillor who chaired the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, at the time, told us that this was not a single case, this one of the Lisbon Courts, on the contrary, was a set of exceptions to random and blind distribution, which are countless, immense exceptions. And I said it, in fact, with all honesty, did not hide this reality, showing how the field of automatic distribution is actually much more limited than what we actually say, or which can be read from the applicable regulations. Therefore, strengthening the principle of randomness in the distribution of processes is, in our view, good practice and contributes to better justice from the point of view of its assessment by the citizens, which is very important. The draft laws in question generally go that way and therefore we do not deserve reservations in principle in relation to what we consider essential. Now it is also true that several opinions, and not only that of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, but also, for example, that of the Council of Justice Officers, rightly indicate that there are several cautions to be taken into account. First, respect for the constitutional principle of the natural judge; second, respect for rules of common sense that have to do with tasks that it is necessary to make, depending on the procedural volume affecting a certain judge and, therefore, the balance of the number of processes distributed to the various judges, the differentiation according to complexity, etc. We are therefore faced with a very fine, very difficult balance situation here. On the one hand, we cannot allow these parameters of common sense, so let us say, to be an alibi to create opacity in the system and to justify what is not justifiable and at the same time we must prevent concern about transparency from constituting a factor of alienation to what are constitutional principles and rules of common sense. And, in the midst of this, there is, however, a very clear truth, which is that it must be unequivocally ensured the randomity of the distribution of proceedings in the judiciary, whether to a judge or a collective, in particular. It is therefore necessary to ensure this and then, in the specialty, it is necessary to create the necessary tunes to achieve this balance, which, I say again, is very difficult, but here we will be for that purpose, if this is considered more convenient. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u38	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These initiatives are largely due to the fact that there have been reports publicly that in our courts, the principle of the natural judge in the distribution of proceedings was not always followed. This is worrying and has been recognized as worrying by this House, which, in fact, has developed efforts in order to make sure, strictly, that things are processed, so that it can eventually be acted upon. It must be said, of course, that the constitutional principle of the natural judge is a principle that the rule of law cannot rule out and that everything that must be done to protect it, in order to safeguard it, is of course important. Faced with the emergence of doubts about its application and even before the information given to us, very detailed and frankly, that there were situations in which it was justified to open exceptions not so much to the principle of the natural judge, but in the sense that there is a distribution that, in some justified situations, escapes from a principle of pure randomness, it is something that indeed deserves reflection. From there, with the opening of a small door that is, it is possible that things we do not wish to enter, with respect to the subversion of the principle of randomness and, consequently, of the natural judge. that, from our point of view, initiatives aimed at providing the system for the distribution of proceedings by the judges of trade union criteria, i.e. seeking to ensure that the drawing which is made and which gives rise to the distribution of proceedings is controlled by the various judicial officers, i.e., that it has a judicial direction, as it should be, but that the various actors in the system, namely the Public Prosecutor and the lawyers, have institutionalized conditions to participate in this process, in order to verify in full the application of the principle of the natural judge and, of course, to have the power to monitor exceptions which, rightly, must be introduced to it, in particular because of the existence of excuses or impediments in the giving of a particular case to a particular judge. So we find these initiatives very well, we think that the issue that Mr. José Magalhães mentioned recently, when he said that we cannot go back to the middle of the 20th century in the distribution of processes, in order to return purely and simply to the role, is correct, and I believe that this is not what is intended either, but what is really important to safeguard is that there is transparency in this process, because, indeed, this is fundamental to justice. One of the criticisms that justice sometimes suffers is that there is a lack of transparency in its functioning, but we do not argue that justice should not work with the necessary discretion — we do not want a scary justice, particularly in public and media terms — we consider transparency, in what is essential, to be an important value. But since there have been doubts about randomness in the allocation of processes for some time, it is important that these doubts be dispelled and that the Assembly of the Republic should do what it can to create a system that is — allow me to express — to prove the bullet from the point of view of genuineness and correct the distribution of the processes. from that point on, we welcome these initiatives. Obviously, there will be improvements that will be necessary and we are fully available for this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u40	I now give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add our opinion on much of what has already been said, and without any serious disagreement with virtually all the speeches, to say the following: in fact, as has been said here, we know — or we assume — the origin of these proposals and what is currently at the table. Therefore, the origin of this was situations of enormous gravity in which conviction and suspicion were generated. It is true that nothing is decided, but we all have the deep conviction that there may have been facts, including the criminal forum, that allowed us to adulterate what should be the normal choice, the choice of a natural judge. This suspicion is extremely serious and obviously requires an effort of transparency. From this point of view, it must be recognized that the initiatives on the table have this concern and therefore seek to correspond to this improvement and to this objective of greater transparency. However, as has also been said here, and I agree, they raise some doubts from the point of view of balance, especially from the point of view, of course, constitutional. Some of the opinions that I have had the care to read also question whether, at the bottom, we will not be simplifying it but until we increase, when we return to more paper, some bureaucracy, which also matters, of course, to have as a reflection. Then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to tell you this: there is a doubt that it was not shared, but it is my opinion that I have been — very sustainable in relation to this distribution. We know that today, the way to make it more random is obviously the electronic form. This is the most neutral form, where there is less human intervention and, if it works well, it is the one that ends up being more random. When the Supreme Council of the Judiciary tells us that it is not 'visumbra' — using the expression of that opinion — 'how the placement of a judge, an official of justice, a magistrate of the Public Ministry and a lawyer to examine a computer terminal is capable of ensuring greater transparency', I would say, exaggerating to what is said in the opinion, that when they look at the terminal, probably with the same eyes as I will look at... Finally, I assure you that when I look at a computer terminal, I will certainly not advance anything, because I have no knowledge or expertise in this area. If I had, surely, I wasn't a lawyer. But I ask: how does this improve? It's very doubtful, indeed. Also, the solution that seems interesting is the one on the following page: having someone who is effectively specialized that guarantees effective management and audit of the mechanism used and the algorithm itself. Yes, with qualified people in the same area. Therefore, I would say that being the positive intention and being comprehensible— moreover, the NAP presents what is usually called a « single article project», which is basically a point of the PSD project—I repeat, it is perfectly understandable, when the choice followed is not by this method, that there is a basis. What the NAP proposes seems perfectly reasonable to us, but it applies only to cases of concrete choice and not of electronic system, and this seems reasonable to us. In cases where the choice is manual, the project can also advance something.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u42	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u43	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Finally, I would like to say that there is a balance here and we will not make the initiatives impossible. When we arrive at the specialty, we will see, if so, what can be changed, but with great doubt that it is an effective panacea for the problem we may be facing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u44	As there are no inscriptions, I speak directly to Mrs.Mónica Quintela in order to intervene and be able to complete her time, if she so understands. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the contributions that have been made here and the PSD is absolutely available, as it is obvious, to work together, in the specialty, these projects that appear to be of primary importance to us, because the principle of the natural judge is at stake, the right that each of us has to have his case judged and decided by a impartial and neutral judge and not by someone who has been chosen to decide in a certain sense. I would like here to draw attention to the fact that the opinions which have been delivered, either by the Advocates' Order or by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, either by the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, or by the Council of Justice Officers, or by the Order of the Applicants and Implementing Agents, are going to fight for changes. However, the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, understandably or not, is of course that it intends to change something so that everything will remain in it, as Lampedusa said, or, better, it is not good for everything to remain in it, to be managed by the algorithm and audits, which is an ancient war between the IGFEJ (Instituto de Gesão Financiàre et Equipments de Justicia) and the Superior Council of the Magistracy. They both want to take care of everything, but if they had, perhaps, the Lex Operation process and others would not have been discovered. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a lot of attention! A note to refer to the fact that, in the opinions, many entities have requested it to be extended to the TAFs (administrative and tax courts) and we have done so. So we then introduced the second draft law, so that it would also be extended to administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. As for the issue of paper, I think there is a very large gap here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proceedings, in the courts, are not dematerialized. This is a false idea. What is dematerialized? The communications that are made between the representatives and the courts are dematerialized because the process exists in physical paper. Anyone who walks through the courts knows this! Moreover, the judge is obliged, in accordance with the current Code of Civil Procedure, to issue a order of procedural agility, saying what are the parts of the physical process. In court, it is the physical process that is there, do not show the documents to witnesses, that is through the digital process. Any one of us, if you ask the court to consult a trial, see that they give you the physical process with the cover. In the cover, there is the distribution and this information that we want to be included in the physical process. Why? What happens in electronic distribution? I'm going to explain, because I've lost track of the times I've been allowed to watch, because I have orders from Mr. Presidents of the Relations which did not allow me to attend the distribution. Indeed, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy says: "We all look at the screen." We all saw what happened in Operation Marquês, in the distribution of the TCIC (Central Criminal Instruction Court), where everyone was there looking and going out a name. The problem is not looking at the screen, the problem is before, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is to know which names are introduced on the computer and then to leave, because if from a list of 200 disembarkers, I only enter the name of one, it is obvious that I can be one full morning looking at the screen and only I get out of the one that was chosen. So we, the PSD, want all the names to go to distribution. If there is one of the legal impediments, i.e. because of intervention to decide on coercion measures in the context of lodged resources, there has already issued a prognosis judgment on the case, then that judge is prevented, but there is the name of him, « Mr. Antonio Silva », for example. If Mr António Silva, or Mr Desembargador, Mr Juiz, Mr Conseileiro, takes up the case, saying: « Mr Conseileiro is prevented because he has already decided on cohesion measures».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u46	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u47	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I'll just ask you for one more minute. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues they pose are not true, because the great manipulations happen at the level of electronic distribution, because if they put only one name there, that's the name that comes out. I leave these words to you: the Public Prosecutor's Office has beaten, asked, insisted and wanted to watch the electronic distribution. Why? For some reason it was, it certainly won't be because the system works well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u48	Mrs. Member, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u49	Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot but make this appeal here: it is justice, it is suprapartmental. This imperative duty brings us all together. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u50	With the time spent by the honourable Member and the closure of this point at the same time, we move on to the third item on our agenda. Thus, we will now proceed to the discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos. 551 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates the compensation scheme for displaced teachers, 569 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Creates the relocation support to assign to teachers, 624 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Establish compensation mechanisms for teachers displaced from the residence in the performance of their professional exercise and 631 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to combat the shortage of teachers, educators and specialists in public school are being introduced. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In October last year, a national newspaper made a headline with a worrying title: « There are teachers who refuse hours to work in supermarkets ». The Director of the High School of the Bocage in Setúbal, where 21 classes did not have all the teachers, explained: «I had a teacher who answered me that she refused the time because she earns more in the Continent and continues to live at the mother's house in the north than to accept a time in Setúbal ». Another news reported the life of 40-year-old Professor Ilda Cristina who had already passed through Laranjeiro, Odivelas, Amadora, Pias, Amareleja, Faro, Silves and Loule. She says: "Going home in Mirandela was only one thing for vacations," and this year or so, because with confinement this teacher had to stay with a class that did not have access to technologies and needed to be accompanied closely. The examples repeat and are always similar. They are teachers, in their majority of the north moved south, without any support, with wages that do not reach the expenses, without the possibility of going home to see the family, teachers living in camp parks, sharing home, paying to work or seeking to be placed in one of the few vacancies, one of the few municipalities offering some support. It is a challenge for any Member to say that he or she has not known or has never met one of these cases. So far, we continue without official data on the lack of teachers in schools, but the Ministry continues not to deny the figures of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), which tell us that there are more than 10,000 students without classes, the majority in Lisbon, Setúbal and Algarve, and that 70% of these times were the national contest and were not completed or refused. The government refuses to assume that there is a structural problem and throws blame on the pandemic, but it does not take an extraordinary measure for the lack of teachers, tells us what « if there are no teachers, it is life». And it's life, yes, but it's the life of thousands of teachers who walk, every year, with the house behind their backs, without getting a penny more for it. And this is not normal, what would be normal was that a young teacher, who had just left college, had spent a few years displaced and would end up setting himself up in a location, where eventually he would become a family. But that's over, it's gone! The reality that exists today is the existence of thousands of precarious teachers, displaced, with 10 or 15 years of service, with families divided, with parents separated from children, with children separated from mothers, that is, a very, very deep problem that has to start to be solved. We need to start pulling the thread of this new one! That is why the Left Block makes a proposal. This is a monetary compensation for expenditure increased in transport and housing, through reimbursement of expenditure, to teachers placed at 60 km or more of their residence, with maximum limits to be defined by the Government in negotiations with the unions. The criterion for this support we did not invent, is an analogy with the criterion used for the other public service workers, to whom a support for travel is recognised. The Left Block is available to work on all projects that are currently being discussed and to approve a simplified version of these projects that recognises the right of teachers to be supported in these travels but which leaves room for the government to negotiate with unions, to regulate values, to determine maximum ceilings and payment mechanisms. We are not prepared to let the government continue to ignore the problem and that for some reason we do not know it continues to refuse the measures that protect the public school. Assessing incentives for displaced teachers was a promise from the State Budget by 2020. from this list of promises, also included the review of the portfolio of ratios to hire more employees and a strategic plan for recruitment and teaching rejuvenation. Those promises took the wind. In the history of public school, there were some ministers who did good things and some ministers who did bad things. I have no memory of a minister lowering his arms and making immobilism a strategy. This and other measures which the Government rejected, because it did not consider them priority, were those which allowed schools to be more prepared for the COVID-19 pandemic. In the investment in teachers and employees, in the public health guidelines and even in testing, the government has been running after injury. But that doesn't change the essentials. We have to do everything to keep the schools open. It passed the time of evaluation and reflection. Now, it is time for courage, courage to say that we cannot give up children and young people and courage to say that we cannot give up education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u52	Mr Mariana Silva of the ENP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Teachers are of the employees of the Public Administration who live in a more discontinuous way, throughout their professional life, with very significant reflections for their personal organization and family follow-up. We have often said that teachers are central figures in the education of children and young people in the country. The applause that some devote to them must be translated into acts of valuing their wages, their careers, their rights and the stability of their lives. The precariousness with which many teachers are faced is an example of the aforementioned inconsistencies, which leads the ENP to defend the linkage of these workers after three years of teaching. It is of the most fundamental justice. Another example of the indifference that successive governments have voted on by teachers is that of the non-rejuvenation of the teaching body, accompanied by a very sharp wear and stress levels widely recognized in these professionals. In addition to these questions, many teachers also face the fact that they are placed, year after year, in schools away from their place of residence, which entails high costs for their personal life because they are not allowed to follow up their families due to their professional life. On the other hand, the distances are sometimes of such order that teachers have to find a temporary residence to be able to work, since it is not feasible to do so many kilometres daily between school and its home. Many, due to financial inability to rent a house, are subject to renting a room and sometimes even to a sharing situation, so that the costs are not so high. This reality is known of the various governments, which have swung to the side, without addressing the difficulties that these relocations of teachers represent. Localized teachers have to pay, and much, to work. They are subject to a substantial part of their salary being exhausted, or to cover additional housing, with all the additional expenses, or daily travel, which brings them a good deal of the salary. In view of this reality, the Greens proposed, within the State budget, the creation of a support which would result in an additional salary for displaced teachers who would need to find a residential solution, due to the distance between the school in which they are placed and their home. This proposal was rejected, but the Greens insist on it taking into account the justice of the solution indicated and the need for once and for all to face the harsh reality of teachers who are repeatedly impaired in the exercise of their duties. Therefore, the State must take support for this relocation, taking into account the high costs, to return the respect that these professionals have already had and deserve, so that their work is always recognized and committed, at all times, not only to pandemics, so that the rejuvenation of the profession takes place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u54	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Taking on education as one of the most important pillars of our society, the need arises to speak of teachers as essential agents in developing the knowledge and skills of our children and our young people. We are talking about essential professionals in the link between school and the family, which are so often a model of reference and support for many students. The teaching profession has suffered enormous weariness due to social changes, pressures and demands placed on the school and on the role of the teacher, pedagogical changes and national educational policies, where the appreciation of the teacher has not been incomprehensiblely a priority, nor a concern. For those who take up education as a pillar, teachers are the structures that support it. When the materials are not in a safety, care and protection structure, they end up falling. The truth is, however resilient and focused on their mission as teachers, like any one of us, they must be treated with dignity and deserve our respect, recognition and appreciation. This is an obligation of this House, first of all. We then congratulate the educational communities for the work they have developed, particularly in this health context, and we thank each teacher and every teacher who took care of so that each child, young or educational professional could ensure their presence in schools with the least possible risk of infection. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks cannot be left alone in words and intentions. Teachers are faced daily with difficulties and lack of conditions in their career, without progression, with low wages and travel expenses. Often, they are forced to move away from their families in order to practice their profession. This situation of lack of conditions makes them increasingly professional away from our educational system, which loses specialized and vocationed human capital. When a quality professional departs, we are seriously compromising the quality of teaching and education of our children and young people. In addition to the amendments that we believe should be made in the course of teachers, we have a very concrete and necessary proposal to resolve extreme injustice, and there has been a lack of concern in solving it on the part of the guardianship. Teachers, educators and the rest of the educational community cannot "be cock for every harvest". If, for other civil service professionals, travel expenses are guaranteed, the following is the question, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Why do teachers and educators have to pay to be able to work? If you have to stay away from your home and your family in order to teach our children, why don't you have to be supported? We therefore propose that teachers who have to work more than 60 km from their official residence, for reasons that are not imputable to them, be supported in these travels, thus ensuring the dignity and appreciation of these professionals and the fair compensation for these additional expenses. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the argument is going to be that there are obstacles in the teaching career to the implementation of this proposal, then these obstacles are solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u56	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: "I can't do what I like most. If you accept this schedule, I'll pay for work. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is just one example of the testimonies that have multiplied and have contributed to the concern of many teachers and thousands of students. The PCP considers it unacceptable that there are still so many students without a teacher. It should be noted that, at the time we delivered this project that we are discussing before 2019 and according to statements by the Ministry of Education itself, an increase of 70% by that time had been recorded, by teachers, of the hours that were assigned to them in the contests and that, like the last few years, the Lisbon and Algarve regions were then the most affected by the shortage of teachers. There is another issue that needs to be pointed out: public, free and quality school for all can exist only with qualified and valued teachers, in appropriate number, with working conditions ensuring compliance with the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The lack of teachers, educators and specialists in public school has been signalled and lived in a particularly intense and worrying way in certain teacher recruitment groups. This is also a fundamental issue: in the face of the costs of living, permanent instability and low wages, the truth is that many of these workers cannot, in fact, accept the placement in incomplete hours of schools that are far away — far from their homes at times. Indeed, this is a problem that does not have a single origin. It is a problem for which multiple factors, related to initial training, access to the profession and career appreciation, contribute in a framework of need for creating attractive conditions for the teaching profession. It is urgent to rejuvenate the profession and to remove the deficiencies that will also be generated by the retirement of thousands of teachers and short-term educators, a situation that is duly identified, including by the National Council of Education. The question is to give an urgent response to the needs of schools. This is why the CFP presents a draft law with a set of various measures to give concrete answers, allowing: strengthening of the hourly credit, according to the needs signalled by schools, i.e., according to its actual needs; the possibility of completing incomplete hours without higher authorization; the merger in a single hour, up to the limit of 25 hours per week, of 5 hours resulting from the application of the reduction of the educational component of teachers and educators in monodocencia; the existence, for example, of minimum limits for the duration of temporary hours, which would help the establishment of many teachers at this time, by passing the time schedules to be concluded with a minimum duration of three months, or 90 days, without the need for higher authorization for the purpose; the existence of a supplement of accommodation for all specialized teachers whose school of supply is located at a distance of 50 km from the usual residence; a supplement of these professionals, also a supplement of professional and dislocation. These are fundamental issues that the CFP here brings, proposals which, of course, we are available to work, in the field of expertise, with the constructive spirit and the need to find ways, solutions and answers to this problem, which cannot continue to extend, being the Ministry of Education on the side on this matter, even when Members call upon the Government, within the Commission, and question exactly what measures will be taken in this regard. In the absence of them, here is the PCP giving voice to the wishes of these teachers, these specialized technicians, finding a way and building the way to value public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u58	Then I give the floor to Mrs Gabriela Fonseca of the PSD for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Hugo is a student who attends the 12th. the year of education and that every day rises early, early, to catch school transportation. With him he takes all his energy, his desire and his dream of being an engineer. Since September, he has not yet been able to meet the professors of Informatics and English. How will he access higher education without teachers, without internet, without computers and still without knowing whether or not he will have to take exams or what disciplines will he have to do? This is the Hugos school in this country. Ana, a teacher with almost 18 years of service, was placed 200 km away from home. It records satisfaction, because it was able to be placed, but the days pass and the longing, tiredness and demotivation take hold of it. He had to leave his eight-month-old daughter with his father. Every week it carries the suitcase and the personal computer to work. They have to bear the costs of two dwellings and weekly trips, and they still risk theirs in time of pandemic. It is often questioned why it does so because there is no financial compensation here. Is this what they call 'conciliation of personal, family and professional life'? This is Ana's school, but it could be from anyone else. Ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, in April 2020, Antonio Costa said: « We assume a very clear objective: we will start next school year ensuring universal access to the network and equipment for all students of basic and secondary education», but nine months later, only one tenth of the computers arrived at the students. « There is no structural lack of operational assistants in schools », said the Minister of Education, but thousands of operational assistants in schools are missing teachers and lack specialized technicians. The schools do not close, but the rapid tests, promised in 1st. the period, have not yet reached the schools. These are examples of the pink school, paper school, that is, of the advertised school, but which tends not to leave the paper. Almost everything is missing in the school and the 'almost everything' cannot be solved by one-off legislative initiatives to fill structural gaps. We therefore do not follow the initiative that the CFP brings to this plenary. Education can never be compared to a blanket of flaps. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] The Ministry of Education was already negotiating with the social partners and other entities a real reform of the education system, from the point of view of the announced competition for teachers. There is political ability and will to do so! I end with an Eça de Queiroz thought: "Policy, without acts, without facts, without results, is sterile and sleepy. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u60	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question that today is brought to the discussion crosses a set of circumstances, all of them well known from all of us and very clear in this year's edition of the State of Education, of the National Council of Education. First, the ageing of the teaching class: 53% of our teachers are over 50 years old; secondly, a very unattractive profession—there is a continuous reduction in the number of graduates and graduates in general in higher education in the area of education; thirdly, a problem in career: for example, teachers of 1. the step has, on average, 44 years old and 14 years old, 5 years of service, with an impact on its progression, from wage; and, apart from the state of education, also a system of placements that looks, above all, for seniority and does not weigh, for example, the place of residence. from the conjugation of all this it turns out that we have increasingly lack of teachers—sayed otherwise, students who are without teachers—and teachers displaced away from their homes, in addition to what their wages are able to compensate, in the sum of their increased costs. For the CDS, as we have said repeatedly, the problem is in career and in the recruitment and placement system of teachers. We have said, and repeated, although we know that it is not popular, that it is imperative that the career and placement system of teachers be reviewed. What these bills propose is a remedy, which, above all, opens previous risks to the whole of Public Administration. It could make sense, for example, to think of a system of cost aid, as provided for in Decree-Law No 106/98 for cases of temporary replacement up to 90 days of another teacher, but always as an exceptional regime and after the revision of the substantive issue. The government, to whom this situation can be resolved, even as the draft laws under discussion say, had announced in 2019 the creation of incentives for the placement of teachers in territories, and I quote "more challenging, such as Lisbon and the Algarve", and the President of the City Council of Lisbon also admitted to intervene in this regard. So far, nothing is known, just that, a year later, the government will still be thinking about this incentive system. The CDS will make it possible for some of these projects to recognize the damage that they prevent on teachers, but above all for recognizing the damage that causes students, however, we continue to say that this is not the way and this is not a complete solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u62	Mrs Silvia Torres of the PS now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this is my first intervention in plenary, I am addressing you. We know that public school is the guarantee for access to equal opportunities. The public school contributes to overcoming economic, social and cultural inequalities, to the development of personality and the spirit of tolerance, mutual understanding, solidarity and responsibility, as well as social progress and democratic participation in collective life, fulfilling the plan provided for in Article 73. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. If the public school is this guarantee, teachers are one of the guarantors of the existence of the public school, agents of change essential to society and for the development of the country. in this sense, I would like to recall that the PS and this government have special respect for the educational system agents, especially teachers. The respect and appreciation of teachers is reflected in some of the measures taken during this and previous legislation. It is clear from the outset: in the previous legislation, more than 7600 teachers were linked, to whom the 899 that have already linked this year, increasing the number of links to a total of more than 8500 teachers since 2016 ; the defrosting of the teaching career, with their replacement, allowed the progression of thousands of teachers in 2018 and 2019 ; the conditions of access to the 5 were created. a is 7. the steps, also regulating the model of recovery of the time of service of career teachers of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education; and, in addition to the above mentioned links, in the current procedures, in this school year, the public school integrated more than 3300 teachers, through the strengthening of hourly credit and the extension of tutoring.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u64	You didn't get it, you hired!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u65	It is also important to highlight the linkage of specialized artistic teaching teachers as well as the constitution of the recruitment group of the Portuguese Gestal Language. It is also worth mentioning the investment in continuing teacher training and recalling that last year, the lists of placements of hired teachers and the table were published on 16 August, with one month in advance regarding the start-up of educational activities, promoting the stability of the educational system. This is undoubtedly to value and dignify the teaching career. The implementation of these measures is revealing the progress made and the importance given over the past four years to the appreciation of the teaching career, with a very positive impact on schools and the quality of learning. However, we are perfectly aware that there are a number of challenges that need to be met daily. Facing them is necessary so that quality education for all can continue to be guaranteed. The PS does not ignore that in every school year there are thousands of teachers of basic and secondary education who are placed in educational establishments away from their place of residence. The difficulty of placing teachers in certain territories and disciplinary groups is a situation that has been reported in several European countries, justifying today that the international bodies themselves, such as the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the European Commission, also begin to pay increasing attention to this issue, supporting countries in the search for solutions. There is a significant number of teachers in each school year who fail to accept placement in the hours and schools they have chosen for various reasons. This year, the number of teachers who refused the place increased compared to 2018 / 2019, which can, however, be attributed to the circumstances brought by the pandemic. Even so, there are now more than 30% teachers placed than last year. With regard to specific support, we believe that the measures to support workers displaced from their original place of residence for the exercise of public functions or incentives, cash or other, to be created for the establishment of workers in certain territories or public services should be set out in the framework applicable to the entire Public Administration in a fair and equitable manner. We see that all the projects under consideration advocate insufficiently substantiated solutions to their budgetary impact, in some cases with an indeterminable impact, such as the reimbursement of expenditure, it is not possible to calculate it on the basis of the proposals as they are formulated. We reiterate that the need to sustain the support of teachers who have moved from their place of habitual residence, especially in the area of access to condign housing and comportable costs, is assumed by the Government. As mentioned at the hearing in the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth of the Assembly of the Republic, the government area of education is articulating measures with local authorities in the territories where this difficulty is most felt. This is a complex work, which lacks the mobilization of a set of conditions to be viable. The appreciation of professionals working in schools and, in particular, the creation of conditions for the stability of teaching function assume an irreplaceable role in promoting the quality of public school, in the stability of pedagogical projects and in improving the quality of learning.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u66	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u67	I'm done, Mr. President. This was, is and will continue to be a plan of the Socialist Party, of course consciously, weighted and sustainable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u68	I give the floor again to Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP, who has 15 seconds for this second intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that the current model of contests and teacher tables has long been badly adjusted, does not promote the professional stability or the fixing of teachers where they are needed and, yes, promotes injustices, especially with regard to the teachers hired. But the question is this: when the CFP here brings the amendment to the tendering procedure, how do they vote? Let's vote against it! Therefore, it does not serve the structural solution and does not serve the solution for the urgent response. Nothing serves to keep it all the same. That is the big question! [[Protests by PSD Member Pedro Alves and CDS-PP Member Ana Rita Bessa.]] They vote in favour of the PCP projects, not only of this but also of the need to change the hiring regime of teachers, the competitions, in order to effectively have a substantive response. Vote for both!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u70	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u71	I'm sorry, Mr. President. In this regard, they also had the opportunity to resolve within the State budget, but did not follow the proposal of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u72	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u73	I'm done, Mr. President. Therefore, interest is demonstrated and now has the opportunity to correct this sense of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u74	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives under discussion today have a common and transversal motivation, which the PSD also accompanies with great concern, the appreciation of the role of the teacher and the educator. But if we follow this concern, we cannot accept that the solution is restricted to harsh and unbroken measures without a structural framework. in this pandemic period, it became more evident for all the relevant social function that the teacher performs, in contrast to the devaluation it has been voted on over the years. Today it is more sensitive to its importance in the pedagogical and affective relationship, in the development of young people and children. This requires us, therefore, to go further. The dignity of the teaching career is much more than monetary support for travel or relocation. Being important, the problems are much broader and deeper. What about the current recruitment process? Is it not one of the reasons why some of the students have not yet met the teachers to some disciplines, and are we already going in the second period? Where is the planning to deal with the aging of the teaching class? How to value initial teacher training and attract young people to teaching? Why has the bureaucratic burden associated with teaching not been reduced? Is there any willingness to intervene in the degradation of school environments and correct the ineffectiveness of instruments to deal with indiscipline? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD is aware of the great challenge of solving this problem. We cannot follow short-range impulses. Some initiatives discussed today are not new and the strategy is already known. Management partners—even those who have now put themselves at the door of exit— over five years of living together have never solved this problem. Education, teachers, students and the entire educational community were never relevant enough to be the subject of a left-wing commitment. They have only been, and are, an adaptation of their party political agenda. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u76	For information, I would just like to say that Joe Biden is already President of the United States of America. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Joana Mortagua, of the Left Block, has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I always have some difficulty listening to the PSD arguments to never vote anything that the Left Block here brings in defense of teachers and the teaching career, because, above the interventions, I hear the echo of Rui Rio saying that there are more teachers and that echo prevents me from hearing, then, the arguments here that there is a need for teachers and that it is the Left Block that does not do what is necessary. In fact, there was a period when many teachers were linked to public school. That period was the one in which the Government negotiated with the Left Block two extraordinary links and a change to the'standard-work'. It was until 2018. From the moment that the government "knocked the door" in this negotiation on the linkage of teachers, it was never possible to take a step back in the precariousness of teachers. There are over 18,000 precarious teachers hired in public school. When the honourable Member says that this year 3000 teachers were integrated to help compensate students who had stayed behind, that is not true. Words are wrong. They were not integrated, they were hired, which means that there are more 3000 precariouss in public school. We know that there are structural problems, there are problems of rejuvenation, there are problems of attraction of higher courses and there are problems of competitions, but the parties here have also never accepted the proposals that came from the only parties who had the courage to present proposals on these problems. [[PSD protests.]] But the point is that there are immediate problems as well. There are also immediate reasons for lack of teachers, now in public school and that need to be solved, because it is now that there are students with lack of teachers. There are no students who, when they don’t have a class, ask themselves, saying, “Am I out of class because my teacher is missing for a structural reason or for an immediate reason? » No, those students have the right to study. [[PSD protests.]] This means that teachers cannot be required to pay for teaching. Those arguments which you find here, namely that these are'remendments', would be incapable of presenting to a teacher who told them their lives, saying that he had to leave half the family — the father alone at home, paying an income, for the mother to be displaced, with the children, and paying a second income, for 1200 euros, to pay the transports, without having any money to be able to go home to see the family at the end of the week. I wanted to see which one of the gentlemen. Members would have the courage to tell one of these teachers that compensation for travel and housing — certainly regulated by the government, with the costs that the government believes it has to spend — is not fair and is not due to teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u78	I call attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u79	I will finish, Mr. President. What we have to understand is that behind these standards we want to create, there are concrete lives and there is a public school that desperately needs investment and that desperately needs to hire more teachers who have a valued career and whose work is also valued. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u80	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now turning to agenda item 4, which is part of the general debate on draft resolutions Nos 837 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Defend TAP, its workers and national sovereignty and 575 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government prepare an audit of TAP's private management. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is urgent and indispensable to defend TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), its workers and national sovereignty. This is, of course, the title and, in short, the purpose of the draft resolution that we present and of this debate that we have taken the initiative to schedule today in this House. On the importance of TAP to the country has already been said, confirmed and proven. TAP is, and must continue to be, in the future, a strategic factor for development and sovereignty, as well as an unmistakable contribution to the Portuguese economy over the years. The unprecedented crisis in civil aviation caused by the epidemic of COVID-19, which has been brought down worldwide, brought new threats to the TAP, which have added to the problems that privatizations have caused and aggravated. We say privatizations, in plural, because, in addition to TAP itself, also ANA - Airports of Portugal and, already before, Assistance in Scale, vulgar handling, were handed over to private management and economic groups, with the consequences known. Of course, these same ones, who have done everything to ensure that these companies and strategic sectors are delivered to private interests, are again betting everything in the attack on the flag airline and its workers. They argued that nothing was done to save TAP, they wanted to reject any measure that would guarantee liquidity to TAP. This is when public support reached EUR 7 billion for Air France or EUR 10 billion for Lufthansa, or when only the British Government gave EUR 600 million for Ryanair. But when the attacks on workers, redundancies, the destruction of rights, the cut-off of wages came to the ball, then we already have the convergence of those who want, on behalf of a supposed restructuring of the TAP, to impose a genuine declaration of war on those who work in the TAP and companies of the TAP group. Mrs. Members, what the TAP needs as soon as possible is not a pseudo-restructuring, is a contingency plan that enables us to face the effects of the pandemic and overcome this moment in order to be able to resume the operation when the public health situation permits it. The dismissals to thousands, the successive regime suspending democracy in the company, the collective bargaining torn, the alienation of services and the subcontracting, the restriction of information itself and the conditioning of workers'actions in the process are not with the options of those that defend the TAP. TAP is defended by ensuring the means necessary to safeguard operational capacities and levels of response, adapting its use and planning in this exceptional period but without destroying it. TAP is defended by taking priority of these conjuncural adaptations according to the needs and interests of the company and not according to the ratios, objectives and targets set and pre-determined. TAP is being defended by advancing public control of the airport network and recovering this really critical element for the existence of a national air sector and for the sovereign development of the country. It defends the TAP by respecting and defending what is best and most important, its professionals, in the most diverse areas of the company and the group, nullifying the successive regime that the Government wanted to bring back, ending threats and attacks on rights and collective bargaining. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, planes like TAP are thousands around the world. What makes the difference in the TAP, in these 75 years of history, are the generations of workers who have made this company a national symbol, recognized and prestigious throughout the world for its quality, security and connection to the country. TAP and its workers are needed. They'll be needed in the future. We need them, with their competence and professionalism, and that requires political courage to face the economic interests of multinationals and the neoliberal taxation policies of the European Union. That is the commitment of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u82	I now give the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies : Today's schedule on TAP is extremely important. TAP has a strategic importance for the country, for several factors. At the economic level, it represents around 2 % of Portuguese GDP, being one of the largest exporting companies, and buying around EUR 1200 million per year in orders from more than 1000 Portuguese companies, many of them small and medium-sized enterprises. It directly employs 10 000 workers and guarantees about 100 000 indirect jobs, being a significant net revenue-gathering contribution to the State. Who, on the right, wants to continue to pass the idea that TAP may fall and, in a miracle, emerge a new company that replaces it, having exactly the same role it has today for the Portuguese economy and for the country, is lying! Having said that, the position of the Left Block in relation to the restructuring plan has also been public — to the so-called restructuring plan... — which indicates to us a scenario of brutal decline of the company and which is based on more conservative forecasts than the international institute, the choice taken by the government in this House. This choice which the Government has made implies the dismissal of 750 cabin crews, 500 maintenance and engineering workers, 300 headquarters workers, 500 pilots, a cross-border wage reduction of 25 %, the reduction of fleet and also routes, the suspension of business agreements. From the outset, we have questioned the short-term and long-term consequences of this number of redundancies. The social impact of a dismissal of this magnitude, immediately, is brutal to thousands of families. For the future recovery we also question whether the government will not shrink TAP in such a way that it will become too small for when the activity returns to levels comparable to 2019. Therefore, it is not possible to accept this plan and even less the way it was done. The government has chosen to play the cynical game of putting workers to choose whether they prefer pay cuts or layoffs. The government did not want to hear them about how to help the company, but now it wants to hold them accountable for the cuts that the government itself has decided. It is not acceptable nor is it a plan that effectively defends TAP. But there's something we don't forget. It is that if the pandemic has brought about a difficult situation for every sector of civil aviation, it is also true that TAP's private management has left marks still felt today. The history of the privatisation of TAP and its consequences is not new. Successive governments, over decades, between PSD, CDS and PS, had, at times and in different ways, part of the discussions and decisions that led the TAP to the situation in which it was found. In 2015, the PSD / CDS government closed the TAP privatisation process, even after knowing that it would not stay in the government. This privatization was a disastrous business for the state, but it was, yes, an excellent business for the private. David Neeleman finally managed to recover his own airline, the Blue, at the expense of the purchase of TAP, maintaining the State and the national bank as guarantors of the business either with respect to the liability or with respect to the debt, meanwhile renegotiated. In fact, since 2015 there have been several options of private management that have left doubts: the relationship that private management has maintained with the Blue company, at the level of aircraft leasing; the losses generated over the years by the Brazilian maintenance and engineering operation, the decision to oversized the fleet of planes well above the outlined in the strategic plan agreed with the Government. Therefore, we believe it is essential to conduct an audit of private management, as we had already proposed earlier, to measure the responsibilities of the bad decisions that have been taken and, if justified, to assess a possible compensation to the State. The defence of TAP and its workers is not disconnected from this need for transparency. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Transparency and rigour are fundamental in this process, now more than ever, so that we can have a robust TAP, capable of responding to challenges and counting on its workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u84	Mr Carlos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: TAP is a kind of endless Greek tragedy, in view of which the State wanted to have 50 %, be a majority, and the privates went out to win, ensuring that they didn't lose the money invested there. The Portuguese will put EUR 3000 million there and have no guarantee that TAP will be viable in the future. There is no rational one to tell us that TAP is sustainable in time and will serve the national interest. The Government, the PCP and the Block, in 2016, by ideological option, nationalized the TAP and through this measure politically emblematic made the State and the Portuguese responsible for infinable damage in the TAP. That's why, sirs. Members of the PCP and the Bloc, do not hide behind draft resolutions; it was also you who put this burden on the back of the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u86	Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, incited by megaphone in hand, on an ideological crusade, charged for two years with mismanagement of the TAP and severely undermined the negotiation of better conditions for the TAP in Brussels. It has already been required to place EUR 1200 million there without any scrutiny to prevent the TAP from closing the doors immediately, at the same time that, in a kind of owner of all this, it resolves to offer an exit bonus to the sole shareholder who, however, with many defects, was the only one who knew about the aircraft business, paying EUR 55 million, in a kind of compensation which he was not entitled to, exempting him from the charge of capitalisation or taking the damages in his participation. It would be a strange thing for us not to be so serious about the future of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u87	But nothing is already strange about the mess in which TAP is tied up when we watch a government disoriented with divergences in the public square between the Minister of Protection and the Prime Minister and with the Minister of Protection to assume that he has lost face to the Prime Minister's decision. When are management premiums paid in years of loss to its managers? Or when does the order of its managers increase twice after a restructuring plan has been announced in Brussels? Worse will be difficult! But at the same time, the minister who shook German legs announces the greatest collective dismissal that there is memory in Portugal, without any social sensitivity, of which only wage cuts and layoffs are known. There's no word for cuts in the fats and bites in the company. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are available to approve a serious audit, which investigates the entire TAP process carried out by independent entities, but we are not available for targeted, persecuted audits and that serve only any ideological cartilage. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the fact that this subject has been brought to debate. Since long ago the NAP has not abstained from alerting the economic and financial situation of TAP and the options that have been repeatedly taken, especially by previous private shareholders, that have put the company in a situation of economic and financial inability which was already patented even before the health crisis of COVID-19. This situation of financial inadmissibility was recognised by the European Union itself by not considering the eligible TAP to receive support under State aid which was allowed by the Commission. The crisis caused by the COVID-19 only aggravated the difficulties already felt and known, placing the PAT in a situation of potential technical failure, if there had been no State intervention. In this regard, the NAP has already repeatedly questioned the Minister in this House about the options that private shareholders have had, in particular in the management of human resources. Even in the restructuring plan, which was quite spoken, but which was not presented, in a detailed way, to this House, it is important to perceive and examine intragroup business or the very absence of insurance for loss of revenue, these issues that are not fully clarified. in this sense, we follow the proposal presented by the Block of Left, in that an independent audit is conducted to identify and quantify all actions that may be likely to damage the public interest and that have been taken by private management and that this same audit may in some way stimulate the clearance of compensation due to the State by the holders of social participations of the TAP, SGPS. But the question is not left here and, from the very first moment, the NAP has argued that the State's intervention in the TAP must ensure and can only be justified by safeguarding certain assumptions, namely: the question of protection of workers and of measures that can mitigate, guard and avoid dismissal; the safeguarding of the objectives of public service and territorial cohesion, paying attention to the strategic interest of the TAP itself; and, last but not least, the existence of environmental counterpart, which is not what has happened. In fact, from an environmental point of view, TAP is the third national company with a higher level of pollution emissions and does not make any sense that these counterparts do not exist either. It seems to us that, apart from the issues that could and should be discussed, that is not what is at stake here today, particularly from the energy point of view, it is not acceptable, even for reasons of transparency, that there is also no need to make public this restructuring plan, without prejudice to the information that may be strategic at the competitive point, but this plan must be made known to the Assembly of the Republic. in this measure we accompany the concern of the PCP, not only for a matter of good practice, but because the high number of redundancies is concerned here, more than 3000 people, who are not just numbers, are in fact people and families who will be affected in their wages, in their employability, already to not speak in the so-called indirect employment, which will also be affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u90	You want to conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u91	I really am concluding, Mr President. For this reason, it seems to us that it was time for this information to arrive at this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u92	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we know, the pandemic caused by the COVID-19 has caused serious problems to all economic activity, and these problems have also made themselves felt in the civil aviation sector, on a global scale and very acutely. As it could not fail to be, TAP was also caught in this framework, especially marked by the closure of borders and conditionalisms at the level of circulation. In view of this scenario, governments, not only of Europe, but from all over the world, have come to the aid of such an important sector, such as aviation, under the penalty of compromising the future of this sector. thus, whether public or private companies, governments injected millions and millions of euros as a way to avoid the destruction of aviation. Here at European Union level the respective Member States will see the green light of Brussels to finance the airlines, but as for our country, as regards TAP, Brussels has twisted its nose and intends to impose that the support occurs outside the specific aid to deal with the pandemic. But more: Brussels calls for a restructuring process that will have to be, for itself, duly blessed and, above all, the demand for such solemn blessing is based on a wrong assumption, since, as we know, TAP was not insolvent before the pandemic crisis. As regards the restructuring plan coming from Brussels, it is based on what was envisaged: dismissal of workers and reduction of the number of planes. It is a clear effort to turn TAP into a small company and, if the matter was not so serious, we could even say that the European Union intends to turn TAP into a fleet of planes to circulate through the fairs. We well know that these demands, made in our country, are not off the old European Union's claim to concentrate the aviation sector on just three major European companies, with TAP being literally swallowed by one of them. Therefore, in view of the scenario that is set out in our view, what the Portuguese State should begin by doing was to demand from Brussels, with all firmness, that the support for TAP must be framed in the same molds and in the same terms of the support that is being given to the entire aviation sector to cope with the pandemic, without any additional requirements to our country or TAP. TAP must have public support exactly in the same terms as the other companies, without taking or putting away! We therefore follow up with the Portuguese Communist Party in the proposal that we are bringing us today, in particular with regard to the implementation of a contingency plan for the next three years until the foreseeable recovery of the aviation sector at levels of demand similar to the ones of 2019 and that this plan is based on the central lines of the proposal. Finally, I wanted to say that the Greens also follow the Left Block in the proposal that we should promote an independent audit of TAP's private management which will provide any compensation to the State by the holders of TAP's social participations, SGPS. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u94	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block and the PCP today bring to debate draft resolutions on, in their own words, the interests of TAP workers, who are worthy of defence, and on the strategic interest of the company. Therefore, the fundamental question is not the essential issue. We cannot separate issues like these from what is basic for any company, which is the economic viability of it. To discuss questions relating to workers and to discuss issues relating to the role we want for a particular company, without discussing the economic viability of a given company, has no sustainability, so it is not possible to continue to hold a debate on the TAP without the government giving this Parliament the instruments so that we can do this discussion. If there is a restructuring plan right now, how can we be here to discuss whether the question of workers, the question of the size of the company, whether, for example, the question of the markets in which the company is going to operate should or should not be considered if we do not even know what the Portuguese Government has committed to the restructuring of that company in Brussels? Without having the notion of it, I am very sorry, all the other issues are important but extemporaneous, because what we have to discuss, at the moment, not only in defense of the company's economic viability but also of the interest of the shareholder state, which are the Portuguese taxpayers, is how the EUR 1200 million that are already going to be recovered and the EUR 2000 million that can go there will stop, why, under what conditions and how the shareholder state, representative of the taxpayers, assures the words of Mr. Minister of Economics. It is because the Minister for Economic Affairs came last week to say that the money the State is going to put on the TAP has to be investment and cannot be spent. If that were the case, what problem would the Minister for Economic Affairs have to make available to this Parliament the restructuring plan so that we could know it? If the State, effectively through the Government, has a strategy for the viability of this company, why does it not make it known to Parliament? What we know of this government is an ideological obsession that has already cost Portuguese taxpayers a lot. In fact, the first major flag of management that was set up in this Parliament was that of the renationalisation of the TAP, which had as a result this unforgettable — and, unfortunately, as a victim of the pandemic, also the entire air sector entered into crisis — for the TAP to enter into crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u96	What a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u97	Only that the TAP entered into crisis with the shareholder state and not with private shareholders, who previously had this responsibility. Rice at the top of the cake: the government decided to pay an exit premium to these shareholders. Therefore, we find it extraordinary that the Left Block wants to examine everything except the exit premium that the State gave to shareholders who pulled out of the TAP. It was interesting to know what the state is doing with taxpayers' money, but that doesn't seem to matter to the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u98	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u99	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we want to know the restructuring plan, we want to discuss the company's economic viability so that everything else can be discussed with truth and not with illusions that they will not succeed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u100	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Left Block and the CFP for bringing this debate on the TAP to Parliament, a debate we have been holding in this plenary and that we will certainly continue to do so. I believe, for example, that the PCP diploma has, from our point of view, and allow me to say it — a vice of a serious substance which somehow prevents it from being approved by the Socialist Party, however good it may be. The serious breach, which has to do with the CFP matrix, is to completely disagree with matters relating to our obligations within the framework of the European Union, particularly within the framework of DG COMP ( Directorate-General for Competition ). Finally, it is not worth having to be furthered by this debate, because everything separates us in this matter. We agree with the importance of the TAP, we agree that it is essential to defend it, also as an element of State sovereignty, but in this way it does not seem appropriate to us. With regard to the diploma of the Left Block, as regards audit, we are at a complex stage, as I think everyone realize, a phase of defining the plan for the restructuring of the TAP, and this does not seem to me to be the right time to do any audit to any type of management, private, public or whatever. We are very committed to finding a restructuring plan that will ensure the sustainability of TAP and the protection of workers for the future, and that is what is truly relevant. With regard to the usual PSD interventions, I wanted to say a few things. First of all, for Mr Carlos Silva, who called everything that is happening, it must also be joked at European level, because it is exactly the same as it is happening at European level, with all the flag companies putting it, to this end, much more than EUR 1, EUR 2 billion, as Mr Bruno Dias said. So if that's the PSD bottle to evaluate this matter, it seems to me that we're talking about. On the other hand, the PSD Member has stepped up his speech with great enthusiasm and energy on the damage done by the private sector in the TAP. Now, who put the private sector in the TAP was the PSD. In fact, we know exactly how this was done at the end of the legislature in hiding in 25. The hour. We know! The PSD has put them in there and it is therefore surprising that they are now very concerned about the wrongdoing related to the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u102	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u103	They are not lies, Mr. Deputies, they are true. On the other hand, it is also necessary to clarify that the State will not put EUR 3, EUR 2 million there. It has put 1, 2 million euros, and the rest are guarantees, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u104	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u105	We do not know exactly what will happen in this area, and I think that we also need to clarify this. On the other hand, Mr President, there is no ideological agenda on this matter of TAP. There's realism, and I think you guys are. PSD Members agree with me. We must have realism. At the expense of bad private management, we have a company that entered the pandemic with catastrophic results, either from the point of view of negative social capitals above 700 million euros, either from the point of view of debt, or from the point of view of its operational conditions with regard to the ratios...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u106	One more lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u107	Even I understand that Mr Bruno Dias does not accept, but Mr Carlos Silva should be aware that the ratios of TAP, whether of crew members or of pilots, are far above the European average. Having come from a political family like the one from which you come, I do not know how you think it is possible to make a company as viable as your competitors, that is to say, worse, in particular with regard to the matters I have just mentioned. So it seems clear to me that your intervention — that is, yes! — is it an unlimited trick and that, in order to say everything, does not answer the essential question: what does the PSD do about the TAP? [[What does the government do?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u108	What does the CDS do about TAP? We don't know, and we still don't know, what's regrettable, because you've wasted a lot of time and didn't explain what you wanted to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u109	Mr Bruno Dias signed up to request clarification from Mr Carlos Pereira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, when you spoke on the ratios and numbers that you want to point out, in a convergence with the PSD, saying that it is natural that the CFP does not accept this approach, but that it would be the PSD first to agree on this matter, I think it is all very clear. It's all said! in a situation as simple and factual as this, which is to admit that, absurdly, TAP could drastically reduce the number of workers, crew members and proceed to take out out-of-contract flights to other companies, so their ratios were all settled, Mr. Such an Excel sheet and such a quantitative approach that was prevalent in the policy of the Troikas in Portugal is what we now have to reject in relation to the TAP. And that is why the question, Mr President: does the PS think that the answer to TAP's problems is to bring back the successive regime of cavaquism in the 1990s? [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Does the PS consider that breaking the collective contract is the previous solution to advance in responding to TAP problems?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u111	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. Does it feel that suspending democracy, suspending the Constitution, is it a matter of respect for DG COMP and the European Union? Or, on the contrary, what needs to be taken as the most important thing, within the TAP and for its continuity in the future, is to safeguard and respect the rights of those who work? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u113	Mr Cristovão Norte also signed up to request clarifications from Mr Carlos Pereira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, we have already tried, on more than one occasion, to turn the TAP debate into a serious, honest debate, so that the Portuguese could understand, but unfortunately, the government does not help us and the Socialist Party's bench does not help us either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u115	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u116	A month has passed since we had in the same Chamber, with the exception of error, Mr Minister of Infrastructure, to whom we have requested the delivery of the plan of restructuring of the TAP to be discussed in Brussels, at the request of the Democratic Social Party and also of the CDS bench, which I believe is now included in the draft resolution of the Portuguese Communist Party, which, if we have occasion, will support. A month back, what does the PS do? Does the PS not feel diminished when he comes to defend a plan he doesn't know? Does the PS not feel diminished when it comes to saying that the Portuguese have to inject EUR 3, EUR 7 billion into the TAP, when the representatives of the Portuguese people who sit here cannot know the content of the plan to be submitted to Brussels? [[PSD applause.]] This is the only question I have to ask you, Mr President. I'm waiting for an answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u117	Mr. Carlos Pereira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u118	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias knows that chartering planes is not the business model for which TAP has chosen this restructuring! So it seems obvious to me that this is not the way we want to go. But it is also obvious to me — and I am sure that you understand — that, while working on the international market liberalized, competitive, TAP must observe what they do and how their main competitors operate. The truth is that these ratios that you do not value are absolutely essential for the future of the TAP, because if it completely and ostensibly ignores the ratios that you know, that means that after this pandemic, after the money injected, the TAP does not survive. That's not what we want and I don't think it's what the PCP bench wants either. So, what we are doing is realistically ensuring that after the pandemic, TAP is much more competitive than it was and is able to compete with its main competitors, particularly flag companies. This is the course we are taking in the framework of the restructuring programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u119	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u120	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Socialist Party’s bench has always held this debate seriously and, having heard some interventions from the PSD, it does not seem to me that Mr Cristovão Norte can say the same thing from his bench. Mr President, on the specific question you have asked me, she has already been answered, but I am replying again to what Mr Minister said some time ago in this House: the restructuring programme will be delivered to the Members after the debate in Brussels and will obviously be excommunicated what has a sensitive commercial issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u121	You think that's normal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u122	The honourable Member fully understands why this has to happen. We are talking about business that can be used against TAP by our partners, and I am sure that the PSD does not want this to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u123	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As soon as the supplementary budget was discussed in June, the Liberal Initiative warned that the EUR 1200 million of liquidity injected into the TAP was not a loan and that they were already registered as a capital expenditure. I mean, the taxpayer would never see that money back. History will remember that, at the beginning of the biggest health crisis in our lives, the PS government decided to bury EUR 1200 million in an industry of doubtful viability, when it could have strengthened beds and hospitals, which today are so lacking. The conversion of these EUR 1200 million into capital will increase the state’s shareholding position above 95 %. In practice, the government nationalized the TAP, forcing all Portuguese to be shareholders, and the question that half the country is asking is this: how do I stop being TAP shareholder, why do I not want to pay this? To this question neither the PCP project nor the Block project respond, because they should find it very good to have more a nationalized company, even to lose rivers of money. In the end, if necessary, taxes are increased, as if the Portuguese were to bear everything. Despite this, we fully agree that it will be useful to have an audit of previous TAP management, but it is good that this audit does not immediately take into account the conclusions, as the Block project seems to do. If the audit is to ascertain the truth of the facts, it makes no sense to assume them at the beginning. It is in this spirit to want to know who is responsible for an invoice to taxpayers who already goes to almost EUR 4 billion that the Liberal Initiative will shortly also propose an audit of the process of renationalisation of the TAP, to see if this time guilt does not die single.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u125	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u126	Mr President, we are rapidly approaching the end of this debate and there are two important issues that are marked. The restructuring plan does not give us a TAP that is more capable of responding to the challenges it has for the future, and that is the big problem of the restructuring plan. This restructuring plan that has been presented gives us the possibility of too small or too small a TAP to be able to respond to this challenge and, above all, too desirable for any Lufthansa, which cannot be what we want for TAP. Finally, on the question of auditing private management, it appears again that the right is still saying a lot, which confuses a lot, but still does not want to admit something. He continues to want to erase from TAP's history the ruinous decision he made regarding his privatization, he continues to want to erase from history the management decisions made during private management, which are widely public and known and still have consequences in the company. It is clear, therefore, that the right continues to defend the privatizations it has made, that it could still be maintained,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u127	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u128	...and that he does not defend the public record. And that is our goal with this project: to defend what is public and that must continue to be public. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to close the debate, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last six years, before the epidemic, the number of passengers transported by the TAP increased 33 %, the number of workers in the TAP increased 19 % and, in critical sectors, such as maintenance and engineering, the number of workers did not increase. Tell us there, please, where is the basis for claiming that TAP has to have fewer workers! What we always said about TAP and its growth was that TAP's operation was not growing, it was inflating. It was growing in an unsustainable way, and this was demonstrated in its operation, daily. For the spokesmen of neoliberal interests, what is needed is to diabolize public management, we already know, and sovereign control over the flag airline — I don't know if you even know what that is — while claiming that the others have ideological options — that crime! And along the way, they make this heroic attempt at beatification of Mr. Neeleman, reaching the point of repeating the insult that he was the only one in the TAP he perceived of planes. You prefer to drop the TAP and its workers and leave the company to the mercy of multinationals. That's how it was over the years. It's like this now, again. Don't talk to taxpayers, sir. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[Don't you talk?!]] [[Don't you talk?!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u131	... because what you are defending is that the workers of the TAP who paid contributions of EUR 111 million for social security only in 2019 go to unemployment and receive unemployment allowance instead of the wages they are entitled to. That's what you want! The economic viability of the TAP, yes, is at the heart of the debate and the proposals of the CFP. The measures that must be taken to defend this economic viability are at stake, rather than treating workers as cannon meat. It's just that the TAP's redundancies and TAP's companies have been going on for months! The successive regime is being imposed now! And we need to reject these options and point out real solutions for the defense of TAP. That is why we say that what the TAP needs is a real contingency plan and not this pseudo-restructuring, which is a declaration of war to which it works. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the fifth point of our agenda, which is generally assessed by Bill No 395 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the incompatibility of the term of office of Member to the Assembly of the Republic with the exercise of positions in social bodies of entities involved in professional sporting competitions (14 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March. I begin by giving the floor to Mr André Silva of the NAP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sport corruption is classified by Europol ( European Police Service) as one of the 12 main criminal activities organised in the European Union. Not to mention in media cases of general knowledge, there are studies that tell us that 24% of the citizens considered football the main source of corruption in Portugal and that we are even the second country in the world, only behind Argentina, where most sportsmen classify football as the most corrupt sport. So talking about football today is not just talking in a sport, it is talking in a world that has long since had dangerous and untransparent links and that is becoming, increasingly, a toxic world. That is why it is no surprise that in recent times we are witnessing the lifting of sanitary cords to this world in several sectors. The two main private television channels announced that, from this sport time onwards, there would be no more sports commentary programs with club fans, invoking toxic language and guerrilla climate. In the world of justice, this health cord is much older. In 2009, the Association Union of Portuguese Judges approved an ethical commitment in which judges rejected participation in associations related to professional sports. They did so, invoking not always homogeneous and clear practices that are incompatible with what must be the requirement for the integrity of a judge and also referring, moreover, the language, the emotional environment and the controversies that run the risk of subjecting a judge to derogatory references and knowing it with intransparent situations. Since then, this Association has defended the incompatibility of participation in associations associated with professional sports. This incompatibility took place late, but arose both for the judicial magistrates and for the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2019, through two laws approved by this Parliament. This amendment, which sought to limit the power of football and strengthen the guarantees of neutrality, was adopted unanimously. In the concrete application of this law, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy stated that the participation of judges in these bodies may call into question the dignity and prestige of the judicial function due to the troubled environment of permanent suspicion as to the links to this sport mode. However, in Parliament, this health cord to football, although essential to safeguarding the integrity of the public interest, has been slow to emerge. We have already had in the parliamentary committee with competence in the field of sport a Member who held the position of president of the Portuguese Professional Football League and, making an all in the conflict of interest, a Member who accumulated the chair of the committee with the presidency of the Portuguese Football Federation. Today, we do not reach the point of having Members with social positions in the world of football to belong to the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee, but still there are several cases of Members who accumulate this function with those who hold positions in the world of football, not to talk to the presidents of clubs that run in the Assembly itself. These practices, even if they do not involve conflicts of as serious interest as those we have seen in the past, do not fail to open the door to the fact that the love of the club can surpass the commitment to the defence of the public interest, which should always be the compass in the exercise of the office of deputy. To maintain these practices is to further undermine the external image and credibility of Parliament in the face of civil society, while the world of football is given a certificate of probity that has long been lost. It is not understandable that Parliament continues not to do what it requires the judges to do. For this reason, the NAP, showing once again that it is not afraid of installed interests, challenges Parliament to stop going to football and approve this proposal, which aims to prevent a member from taking office in social bodies of football clubs, its SAD(similar sports companies), the Federation and the Portuguese Professional Football League.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u134	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u135	It remains to be known whether Parliament wants to remain trapped in an untransparent world or whether it wants to give citizens conditions that allow them to trust, without any doubt, in the integrity, neutrality and independence of their representatives, in the face of the private interests that cross with the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u136	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u137	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to appeal to the Bureau to invoke Article 27. that of the Statute of Members, because I have particular interest in the matter which is under discussion with this bill because I am President of the Fiscal Council of the Sanjoanense Sports Association, which is in the first division of hockey in skates and of andebol. Despite my record of interest, of course, this fact makes it directly targeted by the project. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That is not why I am inhibiting myself, starting my speech, to say what the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group understands on this matter. In principle, I refer to two very clear questions. First of all, we do not accept that sectors of society are devilified. When we talk about associivism, we talk about a very important sector in any Portuguese society and society and therefore there is no obscure sector of associivism, which is the sports sector, which has to be treated in a completely different way from other sectors. However, in sport, as in other areas, there are matters of potential conflict of interest, which, yes, should be analyzed. Therefore, from our point of view, it is only in the context of potential conflicts of interest that the issue should be examined. And this raises, of course, a question, which is the difference between professional sports and amateur sports, something that is not clear in the left block bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u138	The project is not from the Left Block, it is from the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u139	I'm sorry, everything I've said so far about the Left Block must apply to the PAN, making it right from now on. What the NAP presents in its draft law is not a formulation that clearly makes that distinction. Therefore, from our point of view, any potential conflict of interest that exists between a sport leader position and the mandate of Member must be separated from what is professional sport and what is amateur sport. On the other hand, it is very relevant to distinguish between impediments and incompatibilities and, once again, it seems to us that the project of the Left Block does not go the right way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u140	The bill is from the NAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u141	Mr. Deputies, this is not easy. Again, this is about the PAN bill and not the Left Block. The NAP bill does not make the classification due, because if we understand that these are potential conflicts of interest, of course this has to be treated in the context of incompatibilities and not in the context of impediments. Therefore, having these positions in principle, we have no problem in discussing any gray areas in which these incompatibilities can happen and that it is necessary to clarify them from the point of view of the exercise of the mandate of the Member State. But never in accordance with what the NAP here presents, never in terms, as Mr André Silva did in his speech — I must point out — that they mix the fight against corruption, whether in sport or in any other area, with the debate on the status of Members. No one is corrupted by being a member, no one is corrupt by being a sports leader and no one is corrupt by being both at the same time! What he does in the context of sports leadership may be incompatible with what he does in the exercise of his term of office as a Member, but that is where he has to deal, not with a widespread suspicion which, as is normally the case with widespread suspicions, does not help to combat the problem and reduce the risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u142	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u143	I will finish, Mr. President. On the contrary, it helps to dilute all realities in one, not allowing to distinguish what, indeed, must be fought as corruption and what should not be mixed in that mud.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u144	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: This initiative calls for a discussion that is not new and on which there are the most varied opinions, namely the relationship between politics and professional sport. This relationship between politics and football has also been more often the subject of denunciation than of reflection. There's a lot of questions, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this relationship mean: should politicians be involved in professional sports, particularly in football? Can politicians in general, and Members in particular, continue to integrate First League football clubs social bodies? Can politicians support a particular club, on a personal basis, without this conflict with the exercise of its office? Should politicians simultaneously exercise their mandate with other executive responsibilities in professional sports structures? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as in football, the answer to these questions often leads to heated discussions that make a lot of ink run, with very diverse opinions, questionable, controversial and contributing to the erosion of the image of politics and politicians. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the answer to these questions is even more complex if we think that most Portuguese are closely linked to football and affectionately rooted to a particular club and a particular region, and that over time football has exerted enormous influence both on the national and international levels. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a little around the world, the King's sport has had the ability to inspire revolutions, to cause wars and even to create peace and to raise nations. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when we address the relationship between politics and football there are always two teams at stake: the team that defends that politics is inseparable from football and the team that, on the contrary, requires a clear separation between these two realities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the position of the President of the PSD in this regard is well known to all and for many years. Dr. Rui Rio was one of the first Portuguese politicians to defend the principle of separation between politics and football and to advise politicians to keep the right distance from football. We remember that, as president of the Port House, Dr. Rui Rio raised the issue of maintaining an equidistant relationship with football and not encouraging any kind of proximity to the football universe. For many years, Dr. Rui Rio was alone defending this principle, that of the separation between the world of politics and the world of football, this position that has been defended by the PSD. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, however, our agreement with this principle, we believe that the concrete legal solution to the NAP lacks a greater reflection and significant improvements. The PSD is obviously available to initiate this reflection and to give a strong and important signal in this matter. The PSD is available to contribute to the solution and to draw a clear dividing line, strengthen transparency and limit potential conflict of interest situations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this discussion it was quite clear that the PSD does not agree at all with what the NAP proposes, nor does it follow the assumptions, in particular the idea that this will be a step forward for a regime of exclusivity of Members. We are not in favour of the professionalization of the exercise of the role of a Member and of his exclusivity. For us, one thing has nothing to do with the other. One thing is the regulation of the parliamentary mandate and the need to ensure impartiality, independence, efficiency and dignity of the mandate, another thing is the obligation of the exclusive mandate and the imposition of the functionalization of Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite our reservations to the assumptions of this initiative, we believe that the issue we are debating today, of the relationship between politics and football, requires the greatest reflection, and in this sense we affirm our willingness to deepen this discussion in the specialty, with the aim of finding a balanced solution that meets the political exercise model that we defend. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u146	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying what could be said at the end of my speech, saying that the CFP will abstain from this draft law of the NAP. And it will abstain from considering that, indeed, there is a value that must be preserved, which is the independence of the exercise of the duties of a Member State and in principle, the fight against promiscuity between private and public functions, in this case the exercise of the mandate of a Member State. But the NAP bill cannot have our vote in favour for a number of reasons. First of all, there is a assumption, which has been mentioned several times in the speech which we have heard recently from Mr André Silva, which is to use the legislation on incompatibilities and impediments to establishing sanitary cords. There is, however, no category, no professional, no social office, which, in our view, must be the target of sanitary cordons. This is a generalization which we consider absolutely unacceptable, because this health cord proposed here is a health cord around sports leaders in general, which means a presumption of corruption by sports leaders, which we find unacceptable, both in relation to sports leaders and in relation to any other category of citizen. Corrupt citizens are those who are convicted of crimes of corruption. Citizens suspected of corruption are those who are investigated by the authorities or reported as suspects of corruption. All other citizens, regardless of their duties, are citizens for whom there is a presumption of innocence. If this presumption of innocence is not safeguarded, we are questioning all the principles that must govern a coexistence in society and therefore we are from the principle that it is a sick society and that we are all corrupt until we prove otherwise. [[PCP and PS applause.]] That is, from our point of view, absolutely unacceptable, even because this health cord, seen on the other hand, is also about the Members. We will therefore make it very clear that we do not accept that it is legislated with the presumption that all Portuguese citizens are potentially corrupt and that they must all be victims of sanitary cordons. [[PCP applause.]] Even because it is important to safeguard, from our point of view, that a condition for the exercise of functions is transparency, and that is why there is a register of interests. Therefore, there is a clearly established system of incompatibilities, a clearly established regime of impediments, which aims to safeguard the conditions for the exercise of the mandate and the absence of promiscuity between the exercise of private and public functions. But we do not accept that this is done with a character of generality, which covers a huge universe of sports leaders, which obviously covers holders of this sovereignty body and which brings upon all of us, sports agents and Members, a presumption that we are corrupt and we must be under surveillance. That, from our point of view, is absolutely unacceptable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u148	Mr João Almeida has recently done very well in complying with the Statute of Members, stating here that he is the leader of a very prestigious sporting group in our country. That is how it must be and does not seem to us that, because of the fact that the honourable Member is the leader of a sports association, we look at him as a corrupt potential that we have before us. That, for us, is unacceptable. On behalf of the principles I have just mentioned, I would therefore like to make it very clear that there are assumptions in this legislative initiative that we cannot follow in any way. [[PCP, PS and PSD Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u149	Thank you very much, Mr António Filipe, for defending the principle, which has been very ill-treated, the presumption of innocence. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that is called to us seems to be a debate on football and the negative impact of football, but in reality it is not. It even comes to memory the phrase of the famous Liverpool coach Bill Shankly, who said: « Football is not a matter of life or death, it is much more important than that». In fact, by transposing this phrase to this debate, what we should have was a debate about incompatibilities, impediments and conflicts of interest, which is not a debate of life or death, but is actually much more important than that, because it is a debate about the institution, the rules that the king and how the mandates are exercised. So first of all, this is not a debate about what we think or stop thinking about football, the football world, its leaders, what we like or don't like. Therefore, it is not a question of whether we see poetry in a glass of Eusebius, whether we see brilliantism in a tactics of the Five Violins, or whether we are without air when Vítor Baía makes a defense. That is not the point, and the debate should not be about football. If we turn it into a football debate, we withdraw the debate from where it should be. We also know — and Mr André Silva said something to which it is possible to agree — that today there is a debate poisoned in public opinion, and there are television programmes that poison the way the citizens relate to each other, which incite hatred, incite the difference between each other and which is politically exploited by some, and which must therefore be denounced. But the denunciation of the ban is going quite a different way. Therefore, contrary to what seems to be understood, and in line with what Mr António Filipe correctly said, this debate has not even been formulated as it could be a debate on corruption in this context, or on the leaders who are accused of corruption, or on the leaders who are effectively condemned for corruption, because it will transform it, as it has been transformed, into a debate on widespread suspicion is all that we cannot do in democracy,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because it is a debate based on the principle that, first of all, by touching an area that is not illegal, it is an association, it is the exercise of a fundamental right, it is the exercise of the ability to intervene in the life of a collective, which may be local or national, which may be of football, but may be of a disability or canoeing, may be of any other way, such as, in fact, the registers of interests of Mr. Members have revealed for decades. The amount of Mrs and Mrs. Members who participate, and participate correctly, in the life of their lands, their clubs, because it is a civic activity that we praise and value at other times, cannot now be labeled with an infamous letter in their clothes with a football F, as if it meant that, with this, they are disqualified from public participation. Does this mean that there is no problem with corruption cases? No, no, no. Does this mean that the Assembly of the Republic should not address the way it solves the problem? Not either. But the question is this: is this the effective remedy? No, it's not, either. Because efficient medicine is what, firstly, is based on transparency. Mr André Silva referred to the need for transparency. Now, what brings us here today to be able to say and to be able to verify how many are, how many are and how many are to be held by social bodies, is precisely the transparency that is guaranteed through the registration of interests of all Members of Parliament and of all Members of Parliament. Members, where it is registered which associative functions they perform. That way guarantees this transparency, which is the way the citizens control and say: "I did not appreciate that this Member is associated with that collective or the direction of that collective and that I will withdraw the illusions that I should withdraw. » I, a citizen, freely am not obliged to make this judgment by a law that would appear to be inappropriate. On the other hand, if we continue to look at the array of instruments that we have at our disposal, incompatibility is also not the right way. The conflict of interest and the way in which it is revealed is the way in which it serves this purpose, as was, moreover, illustrated quite clearly by the initial registration of Mr João Almeida. Even if we did not find that the conflict of interest was not necessary, then we must check whether the nature of the impediment is present and whether, for example, intervention in parliamentary debates or in debate structures, in which, eventually, this matter may be discussed, is relevant or not. And that is not what we do: regardless of today, a member of the committee who protects sports or not, everything goes there with the same anatomy and the same infamous brand! And let us recall examples of the 1980s and 1990s when, clearly, the holders of political positions realized that they cannot be presidents of the Portuguese Football Federation and holders of the term of office of Member at the same time, because public opinion has led them to this, it is also to have a debate with two decades of delay and not the debate that we should be doing here. To be clear, what is at stake is the debate of freedom of association, which involves participation in the social bodies of the collectives. And it should be pointed out that it would be the first time in the history of the definition of incompatibilities and impediments that would be an incompatibility not in relation to a professional activity, but in relation to a civic and associative activity. This is also a red line which I think the Assembly of the Republic cannot and should not want to cross at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is also a misunderstanding in the intermittentness of the things that appear here in this diploma. It's the professional competitions, but apparently it was already all football and apparently it doesn't shock that a neighborhood club, small, a district club can possibly even be the target of processes or corruption investigation with the same acuity as a large club. If we were to see, for example, cases of corruption associated with sports betting, we saw that the clubs involved were not even professional clubs. If we go to see the transfers of players from here to there, we see that they are often not from clubs that would not even be covered by this proposal, which so far proves insufficient. And what would be about the reality of a club depending on its position and its sports ability if it were divided and, as a result, we had an incompatibility or non-compliance? We would certainly have the Members to see the end of a table, to see whether it comes down or whether it goes up to see whether they were prevented, incompatible or not. This is too ridiculous and, as a general rule, when it becomes ridiculous it becomes manifest and potentially a matter that is not the best solution or the best legal way. Finally, we have so many associations, so many collectivities, so many activities and only this one was anatomicized. This is a mistake, because both we can find conflict of interest in football and, for example, potentially in leaders of associations of parents who are in the Education Commission, in leaders of cultural associations who are in the Committee on Culture, in leaders of IPSS who are in the Committee on Labour and Social Security and, quoting the GatoFedorent, leaders of the Bigode who may be in the committee of their respective guardianship.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u151	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u152	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, fundamentally, this is a debate on the dignity of Parliament, how we view each representative and how we view his relationship with civil society. That is why we cannot follow the NAP proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u153	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block now has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has repeatedly argued in this House that the role of Member should be played in exclusivity and that such performance should be compulsory. Therefore, you know from the opinion of the Left Block: we are absolutely transparent about how we consider it to be the relationship between Members and Members with the Assembly of the Republic and with the Country, and that exclusiveness is our obligation, that we have as a parliamentary group and that we defend as a whole. But it is also known how we are so often alone voting on this claim, because it did not have the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, and this makes the law different today from what we want. The NAP proposal could be seen as a step closer to the exclusivity of Members and, in the limit, step by step, we would arrive there. I believe that it is also too much credit for the proposal in question. We don't see her in those terms. Is there a suspicion of the relationship between politics and football or not? I believe that this question, which is the first question made by the NAP proposal, none of us can answer negatively. There's a suspicion. I believe that it has been greater in the past than now in the present, but there is a suspicion. Just look at several cases investigated in justice and we see how there are links to political opinion and political activity. Now, it is enough to see several political-professional routes and we understand how there are political paths that are made almost to reach the commentator of the ball and, with this, then also to have a seat at the table any presidency of a football club. Or, then, the opposite: make a sports commentator journey to then arrive to the political agent or political actor. We therefore do not ignore these relations. They exist and do not do so in advance and we will say that they do not exist, because they are real, visible and publicly perceived. But from there to the proposal that the NAP makes, to conclude that it is independent of the form of the organization concerned... I remember that, in professional sports activity, we have from associations to business activity, the anonymous sports societies, different forms of administrative organization, therefore, with different responsibilities before those in their social organs. Therefore, this generalisation is clearly a bad way of reaching any legal claim and therefore we do not understand it. They say: "Well, we are the ones who are not afraid to move in football! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But this proposal is not just about football, it is about all sport activity! And now, as it has been remembered—and I repeat this example—the biggest scandal in recent years concerning suspicions of corruption, which has even had relevant economic impacts of millions of euros, had nothing to do with professional sports activities; yes, it had to do with betting sites, many of them managed, even, outside Portugal, and with sports activity in Portugal, but not professional. And about that, the NAP doesn't work. On the other hand, it does not seem to us that it is more problematic for the activity as a Member or Member of Parliament to have a link to a sports association than, for example, to belong to a large lawyer's office and be here to think about the visasgold at a certain point in time to then be in your office to help a customer to have Portuguese naturality through golden visas, you know that there with what connection to the money that is paid, you know whether to earn a citizen to escape crimes, whatever they are, you know in the name of what. And, as we have already seen, this was also an example of international corruption cases that have been demonstrated here. On that point, the NAP does not present anything at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u155	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u156	I will finish, Mr. President. There is more in this example the inadequacy and the lack of correctness of this proposal. Having said this, realizing that more is needed, we will abstain from discussing, deepening and, above all, cleaning up the many edges of the imperfections of this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u157	We are now moving to the closing stage of the debate. To that end, I once again give the floor to Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank all the criticisms that have been made and that will contribute a lot to the work in the field of expertise. Mr António Filipe, from the PCP, I did not refer to any health cordon in relation to football leaders' seats, he misunderstood. Yes, we have spoken of the need for a health cordon in relation to the world of football, recognized by all a world that is permanently involved in cases and suspicions. on your part, it would not be to expect another position other than that! Mr. Member of the Socialist Party Pedro Delgado Alves, says that this is not a debate about what we consider to be the world of football, but when, a year ago, he voted in favour of the Socialist Party, about this impediment to judicial magistrates and the Public Ministry, yes, it was already a debate about what we consider to be the world of football!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u159	He didn't pass on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u160	Law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u161	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u162	Then he says it is a lawful activity, which is a right of participation, of freedom of association, of civic activity. I'm sorry, but the NAP bill refers to professional sports activities! That's what's there and it's pretty clear. On this subject, he also talks about censorship of public opinion. Now, if public opinion, still relatively recently, was clearly against the fact that a politician is in a mere commission of honour to support a mere candidacy to the chairman of a football club, what will he say about anyone belonging to social clubs, whether they are executive or not executive? Indeed, it is absolutely regrettable that the Socialist Party constantly finds arguments to prevent further mitigation of conflicts of interest and transparency in these matters. How can anyone here say, as did the Socialist Party, that being a member of a supervisory body, particularly disciplinary, of the Portuguese Football Federation, a professional league that makes the management of absolutely controversial decisions regarding the punishments of leaders, the punishments of players of an activity involving many millions of euros, can be compatible? Oh, my God! I'm sorry! We therefore live in completely different worlds. And when he talks about social censorship and adaptation of new times, which is the general feeling of the population, I am sorry, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, he is absolutely out of line. to the Left Block, I leave only one word for this debate: miss. I miss the old Left Block. But it's not just me. The CDS itself, with regard to the debate of the draft law of the NAP, was deceived three times and spoke in the project of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u163	Mr. Deputies, your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u164	Mr. President, I'm really going to finish. I regret that the Left Block has dropped this one that was one of its claims for years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u165	It's never been!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u166	...that we should not vote for football, and that we have not followed the NAP in this debate, or at least put forward an initiative to help this debate. Anyway, we will all have a chance, including the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u167	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u168	... of, in the field of expertise, improve all the edges that exist in relation to this project.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u169	This is how this debate is closed. I wanted to leave the information that Mr. João Almeida's initial invocation will obviously be registered in Ata. We move on to point six of the order of business, with the discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 530 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Creation of seal for identification of packages containing olive oil originating in traditional olives and 616 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Determines a minimum distance between the extreme of superintensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei, together with Resolution Projects Nos 835 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Calls on the Government to ensure that superintensive permanent agricultural crops are not eligible for public support and 196 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen consumer rights by including on the olive oil labels of the type of agricultural, traditional, intensive or superintensive system. To this end, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today bring three legislative initiatives to discuss very important issues, and important at various levels. In fact, the growing and accelerated conversion of agricultural crops into a traditional way for intensive and superintensive olive and peanut plantations that are occurring, above all, in the Alentejo is not only transforming the traditional landscape of the region, it is also consuming one of the biggest environmental crimes in our country. For this reason, the Greens have been putting on the political agenda the need to stop the amazing expansion of a production model to which environmental damage and negative and very significant social impacts are associated. In fact, superintensive olives, as well as other superintensive permanent crops, represent a serious environmental problem, not only because of their water needs—we are talking about irrigation crops with a very significant consumption of water per hectare—but also because of the use of excessive quantities of pesticides and fertilizers. It also adds that, being these cultures practiced in continuous spot, in extensive areas, annihilate the natural and semi-natural spaces, fundamental to the preservation of biodiversity, and introduce rapid and radical changes in the landscape, with violent cultural impacts, as happens in the Alentejo. On the other hand, the high social impacts of the superintensive agricultural model should not be underestimated in this context either: very low labour costs due not only to their dispensability, due to strong mechanization, but also to the fact that the vast majority of these productions use migrant workers, subject to poor wages, creating even unfair competition in the final cost of the product. Having regard to this table, the Greens again insist on the proposals not to give public support to superintensive permanent agricultural crops and also in order to ensure a minimum distance between the extremes of superintensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei. The aim is to take a step towards adapting agricultural crops to the characteristics of our territory, in particular taking into account the phenomenon of climate change, which requires serious measures to adapt various sectors, either in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, or in terms of the conservation of increasingly threatened resources, such as water, soil or biodiversity. But there is another point that it is also important to ensure that consumers have the right to be informed about the characteristics of food they consume in order to make their choices in accordance with their interests and convictions, thus enabling consumers to make a responsible and conscious choice. In this regard, Regulation ( EU) No 1169 / 2011, of the European Parliament and of the Council, sets out a set of rules for the provision of information to consumers on foodstuffs. However, a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of this Regulation is precisely to allow consumers to have access to knowledge about the method of manufacture or the model of production of the foodstuff. In this case, it seems more than fair that consumers are aware of whether the olive oil they buy for their food consumption comes from traditional olives or comes from intensive or superintensive olives. To this end, the Greens propose that a seal be created, to be placed in the packages of olive oil, which clearly and unequivocally informs the consumer that that food is derived from traditional olive oil. It is therefore a right of consumers that we are talking about, the right to be informed of what it consumes, so as to make conscious choices as citizens, in accordance with its convictions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u171	I now give the floor to Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent decades, we have seen a profound change in the landscape of Alentejan, which has been subject to a growing conversion of traditional olives into intensive plantations. In 2019, the olive already occupied almost 360 000 ha of the total area of agricultural crops in our country. In fact, there are several data that point to and help explain the increase in sight of this reality of intensive olive cultivation, which has been recorded, especially since the realization of the Alqueva irrigation project. Of course, the higher availability of water and the low price of luxurious lands, compared with that of our Spanish neighbours, has motivated what many have called « Spanish invasion», an invasion without a king or a rock. In fact, the Andalusian olive sector, without space to grow in Spain where the olive sector has already occupied more than 1, 6 million hectares, has been the most benefited from the new El Dorado created by the Alqueva. Although, curiously, there is no official data or simply not available, farmers' associations estimate that over 60 % of the production territory in the Alqueva area has changed hands over the past 20 years. And if in the region of Andalusia it is difficult to obtain water concessions for the new olives, not only is Portugal not imposed any restriction on water consumption up to 600 million cubic metres, as the various extensions of the water perimeters of Alqueva have fuelled the expansion of the intensive olive that by the end of 2019 already occupied more than half of the 100 000 hectares of land in production in this region. Like what happened in Lower Alentejo, the Alentejo has also been the target of the installation of new intensive and superintensive olive monocultures, highly dependent on artificial irrigation, which uses planting densities that are between 10 and 15 times more trees per hectare than the traditional olive tree and that use at a much higher level in terms of the application of synthetic fertilizers and plant protection products. Nevertheless, and in line with the sent signals that the traditional economy gives us, the traditional olive cultivation method is at economic disadvantage compared to intensive and superintensive olives, by involving higher production costs, by presenting limitations on the use of mechanization and for lower productivity. In the balance of the current economic logic, it has unfortunately less weight and with irreparable consequences for the future, the fact that traditional olives have less impact on biodiversity and avifauna—as a result, for example, of the night catch of olive oil—in soils and water resources, in a territory already with a high risk of desertification. National agriculture should therefore be, in our view, encouraged and supported in order to ensure the transition to more sustainable production modes, even nationally aligned with the goals and objectives of the international agreements, such as the Paris Agreement, the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, the Roadmap for Decarbonisation and the European Ecological Pact itself. To this end, we need to focus our public policies on encouraging local production, which is close, biologically, with low intensity in the use of chemicals and water products, but also on information available to the consumer. This bet may not only defend small producers, but also the environment, as it is essential in a strategy to adapt our territory to climate change and a view of food sovereignty. In addition, several studies support and note that Portuguese and Portuguese are sensitive to sustainable consumption and increasingly express an environmental concern when choosing to buy organic, recycled or recyclable products. However, and despite the dramatic differences between one and another mode of olive production, as well as the environmental advantages of the traditional way, and also the fact that since 1982 consumer rights have been constitutionally expressed, to date, consumers are not given the opportunity to opt for a conscious consumption according to how olive oil was produced, because information on the traditional, intensive or superintensive production mode is not simply available in the product. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, consumers have to recognize the right to information, in particular the environmental impacts of their consumption and to exercise an informed right of choice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u173	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u174	I really am concluding, Mr President. Because it is also the result of the informed, conscious and environmentally responsible choice of consumers who, as a result of increased demand, create incentives for agriculture based on more sustainable ways. To do so, we must take this step to approve the initiatives we are debating here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u175	I now give the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a number of initiatives which, with regard to olives and olives called'superintensive', have proposed either an increase in restrictions or an increase in obligations. The superintensive olive has been the target of a set of attacks by society and the political class, denying the image of an entire sector of activity that has greatly contributed to the economic growth of the country and to the recognition of Portugal as a producer of quality olive oil. Portugal has in recent years shifted from deficit to surplus in the production of olive oil and is annually in the first places of all international prizes, and many are won by olive oil harvested in these superintensive olives. Having said this, it is a fact that there are housing nuclei inserted in rural agricultural areas, many of them in the National Agricultural Reserve. It is therefore natural and required to make land use and economic activities compatible, as well as to ensure that the level of exposure to collective risks is minimised as already provided for in Article 14. the Basic Law on Soil Policy and Land Planning. It may, therefore, make sense to determine a minimum distance of tolerance between agricultural and urban areas, although the situation of already installed crops should be distinguished. On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that most of the areas with permanent crops are inserted in water perimeters, particularly in the Alqueva region, and these areas were targeted for public investment in infrastructure, with the installation of water networks and mouths. The CDS understands—and has already defended it through the Resolution Project No 98 / XIV / 1. the, here plummeted—that the possible establishment of a minimum safety distance in the rural/ urban interface can only be done if based on a previous study, with technical and scientific data. However, this study has not been done and the report of EDIA ( Alqueva Development and Infrastructure Company ), which could help this clarification, has not been published, so we will not follow the Greens draft resolution. Likewise, we will not follow the Greens' proposal to exclude permanent crops from the first and second pillars of the CAP (common agricultural policy). I would like to remind the honourable Members. Members the relevance of these funds to many farmers, specifically the olive sector, which implemented EUR 670 million from the RDP ( Regional Development Programme ). In the CDS, we look at agriculture as a central activity in the management and preservation of the territory and it is necessary for farmers to feel valued and believe in the future of their activity, contrary to what these projects do, that signal a policy of distrust about their activity. Finally, and on labelling, we agree that it is a fundamental tool in consumer access to food information, in order to make choices in a conscious and appropriate way to needs and preferences. However, the particulars contained in the labelling should not have an ideological nature or any support in order to induce the buyer to err, in particular as regards the characteristics of the oil concerned, giving him properties that he does not have or, yet, suggesting that he has special characteristics that are, after all, common to most olives. To this end, the conscious choice that is intended, the inclusion of information that does not have proven scientific value or that is not questionable by the consumer, does not seem to us to meet either the objective of health protection or that consumers are fully aware of the goods they are acquiring, and therefore we will also vote against these initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u177	I now give the floor to Mr Norberto Patinho of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a year when the pandemic was the cause of a serious economic crisis, the agricultural and food sector has once again demonstrated a great resilience, the only one which, throughout the national economy, has recorded an export growth, showing that it is prepared to respond positively to a difficult situation like the one we live in, contributing decisively to the growth of exports. Oil exports have grown very markedly in recent years, contributing decisively to the positive balance of the national agri-food complex. Fruit of an authentic revolution that took place in the national olive landscape, we saw an increase in the amount of olive oil produced and, above all, an improvement in its quality. The quality of olive oil is determined by the variety and degree of maturation of olives, the health status of fruits, the extraction process, the mode of conservation and the age of olive oil and is verified and confirmed by chemical and organoletic analyses, not being exclusive of any of the olive growing systems. Oil is classified into three main categories: extra virgin olive oil, virgin olive oil and olive oil. Integration in these groups is determined by the quality of olives, by the processes to which they are subject to obtaining olive oil, by the flavor and degree of acidity, among other factors. The quality of our olives is not related to the olive type at all. In order to ensure the authenticity of the oil sold and easy-to-understand information for the consumer, the European Union has adopted harmonised legislation on the composition and marketing of olives, laying down legal rules for the labelling of packaging intended for the end consumer, with references that are mandatory and others that are optional. These entries cannot be such as to induce the buyer to err, suggesting as special characteristics that are common to most olives. The proposed seal would be a confusing element for the consumer, since the designation of olive oil is as follows: virgin, extra virgin and lampante. The type of olive does not in any way clarify the consumer on the quality of the product or on environmental or social production criteria. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u179	With the types and systems of extraction of existing lagars, it would not be easy to guarantee lines for the production of olive oil, whose fruits originate exclusively in traditional olives. A segregation in the level of differentiation of the agricultural production system, as proposed, would, above all, harm the traditional olive, which, as we know, is less productive. We believe that minimum distances can and should be defined between the sites of application of fitopharmic products and the housing nuclei, but the bill currently under discussion has no technical basis for fixing the minimum distance between the extreme of permanent agricultural crops, classified as superintensive, and housing nuclei. Why 300 m? Why not 500? Why not 100 or 20? In the light of existing Community legislation, there is no legal basis for legitimately discriminating intensive and superintensive crops, as proposed in the draft resolution which, if approved, would represent a serious setback for the national oil line, which has begun a huge effort to increase its production and internationalize the sector, contributing decisively to mitigate the deficit of our agri-food balance. The projects, today under discussion, have in common a prejudice to modern olives, supporting themselves in wrong assumptions, which lack technical and scientific basis. Modern olives have made a decisive contribution to increasing productivity, allowing an export surplus of EUR 250 million. It is a culture perfectly adapted to the region, with low water requirements and resilience to climate irregularity and good resistance to pests and diseases, thus requiring lower quantities of fitophharmacs. of the 20 most present irrigation crops in Portugal, the modern olive tree is the third most efficient with regard to the use of water: 3000 m3 per hectare / year, when, for example, tomato consumes 9000 m3, corn consumes 7000 m3 and fruit consumes between 6000 and 7000 m3. The olive, with 360 000 ha in Portugal, consumes 8 % of the plant health market, for example, 180 000 ha, consumes 28 % of the plant health and fruit, 90 000 ha, consumes 16 %. The olive tree is an important sumizer of carbon dioxide and the sequestration increases considerably in olives of greater density; it generates considerable economic, social value and job creation; along with other cultural systems of drought and irrigation, it is central in combating desertification; it has contributed to the profitability of public investments, such as Alqueva, providing rapid and high adherence of farmers to irrigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u180	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u181	I will finish, Mr. President. But Alqueva was also a contested project. With different arguments, critics are still there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u182	For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is truly worrying about the changes of landscape size, caused by the installation of olives and intensive peanuts. A few months ago, Parliament voted on proposals from the Left Block to stop this abuse, with immediate suspension of new plantations and definition of various protection measures, such as the minimum distance in housing areas and the requirement for licensing and environmental impact assessments. from the Socialist Party, there was no proposal, although today they manifest themselves concerned about the distances to the dwellings. We have also proposed a national ecological transition programme and the end of the public financing of intensive agriculture, because its promotion is contrary to the public interest. We are therefore in agreement with the proposals that the Greens bring back today. In the Green proposal, the cut-off of public funding is limited to intensive permanent crops, so I ask for the following clarification: do the Greens agree that it is also necessary to take this measure for other intensive production systems, in monoculture and with high consumption of fertilizers and pesticides? What false ostriches, the right and the Socialist Party "put their heads on the sand" and pretend not to see reality... [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]] ... that is, the abusive transformation of the landscape, the usurpation of water resources, the annual slaughter of thousands of migratory birds, the destruction of heritage. There's nothing to do with them, and the glove goes on! from Alqueva olive trees to the estuffas of Costa Vicentina, the popular awareness that, in free wheels, this activity destroys territorial cohesion, in the shadow of community and national support and the shiver of public interest. The Block is supportive of all these people. This Parliament can decide to engage in combating climate change and building a cohesive and resilient territory. For this reason, the Left Block has scheduled the debate of a supplementary draft resolution, which supports extensive agriculture, which urgently needs measures to promote and enhance its products, but also to see the many ecosystem services they provide that are essential for our common future, because it is not enough to put a stamp on the label, although we agree with the proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u184	I now give the floor to Mr João Moura's PSD Member for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before I speak about the draft resolutions and bills that are under consideration, it is important that the PSD has presented a draft resolution that values the traditional olive tree.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u186	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u187	And we do so because we prefer to value positive discrimination rather than make negative discrimination of agricultural modalities. Today, we are called upon to pronounce on different draft laws and different draft resolutions, supposedly some on the traditional olive, but do not wear out there, because the valorization of this olive always has the negative discrimination of another type of olive, the intensive olive. Portugal is the ninth largest olive country in the world and is the seventh oil producer in the world. Portugal is internationally considered the country which has the best resources to produce this product efficiently. They are the size of the farms, the availability of water, the moment of ripening the fruit, the innovative characteristics of the farms, the high technological level of the best lagars in the world and the edafoclimatic conditions. This situation occurs, above all, in the area of influence of the Alqueva project, considered by many the project of greater political and agricultural relevance in Portugal. Portugal invested in Alqueva about 2, 5 billion euros. Then, in the Alentejo, which tends for desertification, intensive olives were born, the so-called modern olive tree, which, in fact, has a quantity of plants per hectare far above that which is the amount of plants in the traditional olive tree, and we are talking from 120 to 2000 to 2500 plants. As we also have an intensive culture in the case of wine—and I only give this example, because it is also an intensive culture—which has 3,500 plants per hectare, but now we are talking about olives. What is produced in this intensive, superintensive olive tree in this modern olive tree? Oil is produced, and very high quality olive oil is produced, and 95 % of this product is of the highest quality worldwide. We're talking about extra virgin olive oil or extra virgin, as has already been said, nothing compared to virgin olive oil or lampante. We have associated this activity in Portugal with a turnover of around 650 million euros per year and are close to 150 000 tonnes of olive oil for export. I recall that in 2005 Portugal produced 30 000 tonnes and imported 60 000 tonnes of olive oil, which means that we did not go surplus, but a large amount of oil that we produce is for export, to balance the national balance, so that the olive oil sector clearly contributes positively to the balance of the national agri-food complex. Here's where the problems begin.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u189	It is that it is a lucrative industry, which generates wealth for the country and, therefore, begin the myths, the myths of some fundamentalism. It has already been said that, in 20 regadio cultures, in Portugal, the olive is the third most efficient, the one of the modern, intensive olives we are talking about. Phytophharmacs—not pesticides, fitophharmamics—are used with great efficiency in olives. It is clear that they are used, but they are used in a much more efficient way than, for example, in other cultures that the most fundamentalist parties here both cherish, as in the Douro region, wine culture. Just to have an example of some myth, the aridity index in the Alentejo improved, because it passed from a semi-arid climate to a semi-arid, sub-humid to dry climate. The overwhelming majority of intensive olives are made in integrated production, which means that environmental resources are guarded not only but also human health. That is, we are facing a culture that meets all the standards of good production. As for the distance between cultures, I also give an example: in France, on intensive farms, the distance from the dwellings is 10 m and here they want to impose 300 m away. This is clearly an imposition in order not to have intensive cultures. Mr President, as we are talking about olive culture here, I wanted to end by appealing to a democratic culture: we must not bring these issues to debate systematically and persistently, at least we must keep a period of rest to discuss the same subjects again. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u190	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u191	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and the Members. Members, and thank the Greens for bringing us again the important issue of intensive and superintensive olives. In the last legislative sessions, the CFP also presented its proposals in this House on the subject of intensive and superintensive productions, which are the ones most expressed in the Alentejo region. In fact, we are talking about a reality particularly felt in the area of influence of the Alqueva Multiple End Entrepreneurship. And, if justice is done to us, many years have led the PCP to fight for the realization of the Alqueva to, now, many of those who were contrary to the construction of the Alqueva, and did everything so that it would not be a reality, say to defend the Alqueva. But it is also fair to say that it was neither this model nor this alqueva that we were defending, but it was an alqueva that contributed to national production, to diversified production, particularly in that region, which could clearly have another word to say in terms of sovereignty and food security. We want to make a few brief notes here, the first of which, since it has been talked about here, has to do with investments in the olive tree and in the superintensive almond, which clearly have a parasitic character. In fact, in addition to accessing public funding, whether they are national or the European Union, they are essentially based on a public enterprise and consume national funds that could be channelled to those of them most precisely, particularly for small and medium-sized agriculture, but are used by large agribusiness companies. The second note has to do with over-exploitation of the earth. And, effectively, the evidence is this: this production model uses a massive amount of agrochemicals that, of course, have to have effects on the health of the population, on the environment, on biodiversity, on ecosystems. And, yes, the minimum we have to guarantee the population are safeguard bands. But, if we want a reference, it already exists: Beja's Municipal Director Plan has this definition and in few situations, but fortunately, in some, it is being applied. I give the example of the parish of Santa Vitória, where the chameleons were located at a distance of 250 m from the population. This is the minimum we have to demand, and by this way, case law can be implemented. The third note relates to the fact that it is a production model based on the exploitation of cheap, practically slave labour. There have been reports of thousands of immigrants who are abandoned every year, as soon as the seasonal harvest of olive oil is over. These are situations to which, in the case of Beja, has been valid to the Diocesan Caritas, by welcoming these workers, who are from the most diverse backgrounds and are completely abandoned, in absolute precariousness and exploitation, in absolutely deficit and unworthy housing. I still want to leave a note that has to do with the pressure on the territory. We cannot scramble, because it is more than obvious and we have many almost daily examples, the destruction of historical and cultural heritage, taking away traces of the ancestral human presence. There are many cases, and it is not worth bringing them here, because they are too obvious and happen all the time. Then we also have the problems which, contrary to what you said, create dependence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u192	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude, because the time you have at your disposal is really negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u193	Mr President, I ask for your understanding, because I just want to say, as regards the olive labels, the following: we can create the olive labels that we want they will not solve anything if we do not have a traditional olive protection policy. This policy, yes, is the guarantee of the safeguard of traditional olives. Otherwise, we can bring the stamps we want into the oil bottles that we will not be able to solve anything, we will only create niches and not safeguard prices that are fair to traditional olive production. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u194	That's what we agree on!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u195	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the end of this debate and, to this end, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u196	Mr President, in this final part, I would like to make a few comments on some of the things that have been said here, but not without recalling, firstly, that, for what we have heard here today, we are making the traditional olives economically unviable, and I do not know whether the Mrs. Members have already realized this. Mr. João Moura, it is not expected that the Greens, whenever they want to schedule an initiative, will ask you whether it is appropriate or not to schedule it. Mr President, we have complied with the rules of procedure and, therefore, on this matter, we are absolutely organized, I repeat, we are completely arranged. On the other hand, Mr. João Moura, no one wants to impose the distance of 300 m. We are waiting for the PSD to tell us what the appropriate distance is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u197	The PDRs are already saying that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u198	But so far, zero, so far, I haven't said anything. Then, Mr. João Moura, you cannot compare what is incomparable. You did an exercise for which I am not qualified when you called the Douro vineyards for discussion. Mr President, the Douro vineyards are a culture of ours, whose production, in fact, is natural, have not replaced any other culture and have no comparison either at the level of the quantity of fertilizers used or, above all, at the level of the quantity of water required. Therefore, Mr President, I am perfectly aware and leave here with the idea that you are not the'patron of the regiment' and the initiatives are discussed when the parties understand very well. Mr Ricardo Vicente, from the Left Block, addressed to me a question to which I will answer, saying that the Greens are open to the discussion to also seal public support for the cultures he has referred to. Mr Norberto Patinho, of the Socialist Party, the seal does not clarify, but the seal does not intend to clarify, the seal intends to inform. It is that the consumer must have the right to know whether the olive oil he is buying comes from an intensive culture, a superintensive culture or a traditional olive culture. But, I repeat, the seal does not intend to clarify anything, it intends to inform. They are absolutely different concepts and even strange how PS makes confusion between these two concepts. Then the distance of 300 m doesn't work. But, then, honourable Member, what is the distance? Oh, my God! What's the PS proposal? It's zero! If 300 m is too much, what we think is that zero is little, Mr. And the people complain, because, finally, they are standing there. In fact, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa acknowledged that there are indeed housing centres that are exposed to risks and, on that, I believe, there are no doubts either. By the way, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I must tell you that no one wants to deny anyone's image. No one wants to diabolize the intensive olive tree, what we want is to lay down very clear rules on this production. But, Madam Member, allow me to make a correction to what I said: superintensive crops are not limited only to water blocks installed within the Alqueva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u199	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u200	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, superintensive crops are not limited only to water blocks installed within the Alqueva, because also outside this perimeter there is a lot of superintensive production. So, maybe, it's good that one of these days passes by.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u201	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as the debates on the first six points on our agenda are concluded, we are moving to the last point, which is that of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We have a quorum of deliberations, as the President of the House has announced twice, so we will start the votes. We begin with the Vote Project No. 440 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Condemning the invasion of the Capitol and the attack on democracy in the United States of America, which is of the following content: « Last January 6th, the Capitol, the headquarters of the Congress of the United States of America, including the Senate and the House of Representatives, was attacked and invaded by thousands of protesters during the election results confirmation session that Joe Biden determined as President of the United States of America. This invasion, widely disseminated in the media, took place in the wake of a rally where the outgoing president, instigating the present, gave such phrases as ‘I will be with you. We will walk to the Capitol or ‘ We will stop stealing ’ and mark one of the darkest moments in the recent history of American democracy. Enforced entry into the Capitol, the insurgents occupied cabinets of congressmen, namely that of the president of the House of Representatives and the chair of the president of the Senate, having vandalized various structures. the invasion resulted in five deaths, including that of a police officer in the Capitol, injured during the occurrence, still knowing that they were prepared on the site explosive gears. This attack, promptly condemned by all the former U.S. presidents still alive and various senators and congressmen, including the Republican Party, is an act that, by its nature and impact on the parliamentary institution, should outrage all democrats, forcing a conservative reflection on phenomena of intolerance and populism that disrupt the threat of spreading to other places, contaminating the functioning of democracies. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the invasion of the Capitol during the validation session of the presidential elections and is in solidarity with its parliamentarians and officials, stressing the continuing need to defend and safeguard the full functioning of the democratic parliamentary institution. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this draft vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Step, now, to the Resolution Project No. 860 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee to losses recorded by the New Bank and charged to the Resolution Fund. Let's vote for him. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the simplification of communication between the different educational actors and between the different levels of education. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PAN, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Then we will vote together two demands, one, submitted by the PSD, on a bass basis to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, for the 30-day deadline of Bill No. 591 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Introduction of mechanisms to control the electronic distribution of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction proceedings by amending the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals, approved by Law No 15 / 2002 of 22 February 2002 and the thirty-third amendment to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 433 / 99 of 26 October and 553 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Introducing mechanisms to control the electronic distribution of judicial proceedings, making the tenth amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June, and the other submitted by the NAP, on the basis of a discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, for the 60-day period of the Bill No 641 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates transparency and scrutiny mechanisms in the distribution of judicial proceedings, amending the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] These initiatives will therefore go down to their Commission. We shall now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 551 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates the compensation scheme for displaced teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 569 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Creates the relocation support to be attributed to teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 624 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — establishes compensation mechanisms for teachers displaced from the residence in the performance of their professional exercise. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We immediately vote in general on Bill No. 631 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amends measures to combat the shortage of teachers, educators and specialists in public school. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] I now submit to the vote draft resolution No 837 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Defending the TAP, its workers and national sovereignty. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 575 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government prepare an audit of TAP's private management. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the NAP, which is down to the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, without a vote of 60 days from the Bill No 395 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the incompatibility of the term of office of Member to the Assembly of the Republic with the exercise of positions in social bodies of entities involved in professional sporting competitions (14 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 530 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Creation of seal for identification of packages containing olive oil originating in traditional olives. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We passed the Bill No. 616 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Determines a minimum distance between the extreme of superintensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei. Let's vote for it, generally. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 835 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Calls on the Government to ensure that superintensive permanent agricultural crops do not benefit from public support. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 196 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen consumer rights by including on the olive oil labels of the agricultural system: traditional, intensive or superintensive. Let's vote for him. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP were rejected.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 813 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government changes in the approach to cooperation policy to be integrated into the Portuguese cooperation strategy for the period 2021 - 2030 and in the performance of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, BE, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 778 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government reject the current drafting of the EU-Mercosul agreement and due diligence for its reformulation or the creation of a new free trade agreement. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 808 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government reject the current international free trade agreement EU-Mercosul. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 826 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Rejection of the international free trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 848 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By rejecting the international free trade agreement between the European Union and Mercosur. Let's vote for him. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We then vote on the Resolution Project No. 849 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government ensure compliance with environmental criteria in trade agreements with Mercosur. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE and ENP were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u202	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u203	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u204	Mr President, I would like to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote by the Liberal Initiative on the last five votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u205	It is enshrined in its own act, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u207	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u208	Mr President, I would like to say that, with regard to this last vote, the Left Block will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u209	Mr. Deputies, you will be registered. We then proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions No 549 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government reassess the work of extending the outer seabreak of the Port of Legions, 611 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Suspension of the procedure for awarding works of expansion of the Port of Legions, including extension of the outer seabreak, 616 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the application of all environmental impact reduction measures in the works of prolongation of the Leixions Seabreak and the New Contentor Terminal, and 650 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Intensification and credibility of the environmental impact assessment of the works integrated in the maritime accessibility project to Porto de Leixões. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We now vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities on draft resolutions Nos 779 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the mobilisation of the international community in order to prevent crimes committed against humanity in Mozambique, and 784 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Place the human crisis and the problem of terrorism in Mozambique in the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 60 to 70 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning plenary meetings held on 5, 8, 9, 17, 18, 19, 24, 25 and 26 June and on 1 and 2 July 2020. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] I now give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to inform us of the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Alves ( PSD ) to testify in writing as a witness in the framework of the cars in question — PND-34 / 2020 Inq - IGAI - Inspection-General of the Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Emídio Guerreiro ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the framework of the cars in question — PND-34 / 2020 Inq. — IGAI — General Inspection of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u213	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Rui Cruz ( PS ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the framework of the cars in question — PND-34 / 2020 Inq. — IGAI — General Inspection of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u215	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Lúcia Araújo Silva ( PS ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the framework of the cars in question — PND-34 / 2020 Inq. — IGAI — General Inspection of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u217	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha will now give notice of the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 863 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and Bills Nos 648 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 649 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 650 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which fall to 10. the Commission. Finally, Mr President, I shall take note of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are in isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u219	Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u220	This plenary meeting was accompanied by videoconferencing by Ms Marta Freitas of the PS, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, and Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD, also elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. They are in prophylactic isolation and also accompanied this session by the members of PS Pedro Coimbra and Fernando Anastácio. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-20.u221	Mrs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I shall proceed to the agenda of the next plenary session, to be held on 28 January, at 14 p.m. from 24 December to 7 January 2021. of the second point is the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. from the third point there is a current debate required by the CFP on the theme « Problems in the homes of the elderly ». of the fourth point is the assessment of the Bill No 69 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt the sanctions regime applicable to infringement of Regulation ( EC ) No 2271 / 96 on protection against the effects of extraterritorial application of legislation adopted by a third country. This is the agenda for next Thursday, 28th. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for a good day and I ask you to take the greatest possible care on our behalf and on behalf of all whom we have contacted. Thank you very much and good night. [[It was 19 hours and 6 minutes.]]
