ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Let us have a debate today on general policy, with the presence of Mr. Prime Minister, but first I give the floor to Mr. Maria da Luz Rosinha, who has several valuable information to give us. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, I welcome all the present and I will announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills Nos. 971 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 975 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), 976 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), 978 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), 979 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ) and 980 / XIV/ 3. a ( PCP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 981 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 982 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 983 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 1463 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1464 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAR) and 1465 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), down to 9. the Commission, and 1466 / XIV/ 3. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Members, as a single point on our agenda, we have the debate on general policy, with the presence of the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Prime Minister, we had a few months, I would say, almost electoral campaign and, during this election campaign, Mr. Prime Minister, in addition to having made the transformation of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) almost in a socialist cheque book, also promised to stir in the IRS (tax on the income of natural persons). Now that the election campaign has ended and we are entering the parliamentary year, so to speak, it will also enter here, the State Budget next Monday and, therefore, it is time to see if the promises will come out of the paper and become reality. On this point, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions, and the first one has as its backbone economic growth and recovery or, on the other, the lack of it. I would like to remind you, Prime Minister, that about a year ago a State budget entered here which provided for a growth of 5, 4 % for this year. Well, we know that we are probably going to grow almost 1 percentage point and that this is because Portugal has had the worst GDP drop (gross domestic product) in the first quarter. We actually had a terrible first trimester. In addition, 2020 was also worse than we had imagined, because the INE (National Institute of Statistics ) came to say that in reality the country had grown less than 1 percentage point than what the INE had reported. The final result: we are facing some less than EUR 2000 million of economic growth compared to initially planned. That's the problem. What's the solution? The solution is Portugal to recover as soon as possible. Now, we are below the European average in terms of recovery. As you know, more than eight European Union countries already have their GDP in the state they had before the pandemic, Portugal should only be there in the middle of next year and is behind the European average in recovery. So what I ask you, in particular, is what measures you have negotiated with the management parties — we already know — and whether you have measures for the competitiveness of Portugal to enable economic recovery. By the way, I give you an example as it costs nothing. I just want to guarantee that the PS and the government will not obstruct it. Last week we approved here, by the hand of the CDS, which strongly insisted on this initiative, a measure that your Government promised in 2016 and never complied with, which is the current account between the State and taxpayers, which basically means that someone, some company, is expecting the State to return the VAT (tax on value added) that is due to it, does not have to be indebted to pay its taxes to the State. I just want your assurance that the government will not be obstructing what the PS has tried to stop with its vote against. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u6	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, first of all, I begin by asking the leader of your party and all of your militants to convey my congratulations, for they were the only party that did not lose a single camera, they kept all they had and contributed generously, so that the PSD would win over 40 cameras. Therefore, a lot of congratulations to the CDS for this authentic election result. [[Congrats from PS and PSD Member Rui Rio.]] I should like to tell you that, in fact, I was very perplexed by the enormous 'disgrace' which I found out that the different party leaders and the actual city council had to stress the importance for the different localities of what Portugal has contracted with the European Union, which are no longer promised but are contractually, calendarly and budgeted obligations, which we will even have to comply with if we cannot receive the following tranche from the European funds. The Recovery and Resilience Plan is not a fiction, it is something that is already contracted with the European Union and it will even be crucial for us to comply. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to IRS and the other taxes, as I said, and very well, on Monday we will present here another budget proposal. We will have a final Council of Ministers tomorrow for its approval and, therefore, on Monday Mrs Deputies will certainly be able to verify what the proposals we have in tax matters, but they have essentially corresponded to what I have already had the opportunity to announce, on another basis, that they would be our priorities: the breakdown of taxation on the middle class and strong fiscal support for new generations, particularly young people, in order to empower them. Finally, as far as economic growth is concerned, it is right: when the Budget was discussed here in October last year, no one predicted that we would have a huge increase in the pandemic in the first quarter of this year, which was strongly penalizing our economy. Fortunately, the data show that in the ensuing quarters we have come to have strong growth, especially supported by the great resistance of employment, which is the major engine of our growth. So I think we have good conditions to expect, over the next year, we have already recovered and overcome the situation in which we were in 2019, i.e. before the outbreak of the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you, on behalf of the CDS, for the congratulations, I pay them democratically and I can only say that I hope that these election results will be the beginning of a great turn to the right in Portugal,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] ...that you can build an alternative policy. I asked Mr Prime Minister about measures for competitiveness and Mr Prime Minister answered me with his socialist cheque book, which was what transformed the PRR, which was a huge opportunity for reform. But now another question, too, is the budget. Speaking in fiscal relief of the middle class, now, I also enjoyed a guarantee, Prime Minister : that no Portuguese with the same income will pay more IRS in 2022 than it paid in 2021. I would therefore like you to give me just this little guarantee so that we can talk in tax relief. But, speaking in gasoline and fiscal relief for the middle class, I would like to remind Mr. Prime Minister of the additional to the ISP (charge on oil and energy products) that his government created in 2016, reminding him that every time a Portuguese fills a deposit with €67, almost €40 is for the state. Therefore, the great margin is for the State. Mr Prime Minister, it is crucial that he explains why Mr Prime Minister, instead of solving the problem of the lion margin, which is the margin of the State, instead of regulating its margin, has decided that it would regulate the margin of other operators. I would like to remind you — and I will not give you any opinion — that either ERSE(Energy Services Regulator ), Portugal energy regulator, or the Competition Authority have come to say, and not only with words, that the great responsible for the cost of gas oil and gasoline in Portugal are the taxes, bringing up to a design to explain where the differential comes from. The speaker showed the document she mentioned. I'd like to know if it's available to reverse the extra gas oil and gasoline. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u10	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, on the question of the price of fuels, including gas and gasoline, to which you referred, I would like to recall that there was no change in taxation by this Government. So there is no explanation there for the increase in the costs of gas oil and it is not worth going there. [[Protests from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] On the other hand, Mrs Deputy, in effect, the Recovery and Resilience Plan is not limited to being a book of checks, as she designates it. It contains a set of funds which the European Union makes available for investment, but on the other hand, it also provides for a set of reforms, and one of them, very important, has to do with the reform of regulated professions and the system of professional orders, which already contained Portugal's obligations to troika, when the factual powers of orders have been able to ensure that the PSD and CDS government... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... if they imposed on the freedom to exercise the profession, freedom of training and the existence of sound and fair competition, but fortunately I saw that, recently, the main bank that supports this government presented a legislative initiative that implements this reform. I must tell you that what is going to change structurally are, in particular, the mobilising agendas, whose first manifestation of interest has mobilized more than 140 consortia between companies and centres of knowledge production, promising a very strong investment cycle and structural transformation of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u11	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The honourable Member has three seconds to go. I hope it won't be too long. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u12	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm going to be a telegraph. First, I would like to remind the Prime Minister that he did not guarantee that no Portuguese with the same income will pay no more IRS in 2022 than in 2021. Secondly, I would like to remind Mr. Prime Minister of Portaria No. 24 -A / 2016, for which he increased 6 cents/litre in ISP,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u13	...what was called the extra gas oil and gasoline. Why? Because Mr. Prime Minister thought gas and gasoline were very cheap and that the state was losing money and, therefore, increased the price on this route, promising to go down as soon as the price of oil increased again. He never did! Mr. Prime Minister, this time, please: eliminate the additional gas oil and gasoline. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u14	Mr Prime Minister also has time and I give you the floor, asking that you not exceed the 6 seconds you have. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u15	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the tax cost that has risen is what results from the carbon rate, and well, because it is necessary, once and for all, the political leaders stop having two speeches... [[Protests from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...and stop making sounds in front of public opinion. Political leaders cannot say for half of the week that there is a climate emergency and the other half of the week that they do not want measures to combat the climate emergency. The climate emergency is an emergency every day, requires a carbon rate, that carbon rate will continue to increase and it is a correct policy... [[Protests from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... do not make the slightest contribution to lower taxation on carbonised fuels. End point! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u16	in this first round of questions, it is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. I give the floor to Mr Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, almost a year ago EDP (Electricity of Portugal ) created a company with only one employee who lasted a little longer than a month. That was the Moroccan, let us say, the simulation, which EDP found to not pay stamp taxes, which it had accepted in the government, through the Minister of the Environment and the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, who were the first EDP defenders, saying: « For God's sake, there is absolutely nothing to pay! Do not keep on seeking. ” When this began coming to the public, the government changed the narrative and said that the Tributary Authority (AT ) was drawing up an opinion to see whether it was really due or not. Mr Prime Minister, he also said here and asked me: "Don't you believe in the Tax Authority? You don't trust the Tax Authority? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, it's been almost a year. This happened in December and we're in October. The Tax Authority has not yet been able to deliver an opinion, but the Miranda Lands Movement has been able to produce a high-quality opinion within a week. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, this even gave rise to a disciplinary process, because an AT technician collaborated in the opinion that EDP had to pay taxes. The question I ask is: are all patients in the Tax Authority? Did you finish toner in the services? Are they quarantined since the pandemic started? Mr Prime Minister, does it not seem strange that, after 11 months, the Tax Authority has not yet been able to produce an opinion, when there is even a technician, probably lying down, who would do so in a week? It's just that this would seem to say that EDP has to pay! I wonder, yet, when that will appear. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u18	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u19	Mr. Rui Rio, I know that the said disciplinary process has been filed and...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u20	Badly out!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u21	...I think it's good, because there was no basis for the disciplinary process. As far as the AT work is concerned, I do not really know how to give you the information. The best I can do is to convey to Dr. Helena Borges the curiosity that the honourable Member has conveyed here, in order to know when it is planned to obtain this information from the AT. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] But let us see: I believe that if there is any doubt that the Portuguese do not have a chance that AT will not miss an opportunity to charge one cent that is due and that can be charged. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u22	Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u23	Mr. Prime Minister, interest and curiosity are not mine. I believe that interest and curiosity are of all the taxpayers to whom AT makes them pay the taxes, with the tax burden we know. [[PSD applause.]] But as it is for a « great», for EDP, 150 million or 130 million stamp taxes are a bagatela! I can't understand. So I would really appreciate Dr. Helena Borges telling her technicians that she was willing to give this information to then confront both opinions. Let's see what's very well done, which says that you have to pay, and how the other one is prepared, that eventually you will say that you don't have to pay. Mr Prime Minister, I now bring another more important issue, much more important, if we are to look in numerical terms. The question I talked about was about 150 million, and the question I'm going to talk about is 4.5 billion. The government reversed the privatisation of TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) and this is a mistake that we are all paying hard and ugly. It reversed the privatisation of a bankrupt company, a company that gives enormous gifts and has always lived from our taxes. I could give the royalties and pay all those wages that I want to pay if it was a lucrative company and if I didn't live from our taxes, but live from our taxes. This government moved to TAP in 2016, EUR 2 million ; in 2017, EUR 55 million ; in 2020, EUR 1, EUR 2 billion ; in 2021, in the State budget, EUR 970 million. For 2022, Mr. Minister of Finance announced an additional EUR 1000 million and EUR 500 million is already scheduled for an endorsement which is certainly not going to pay; in 2023, more EUR 400 million are scheduled for another endorsement, which TAP will not pay for; in 2024, EUR 400 million for another endorsement, which TAP will not pay for. Without evaluators, it is 3, 2 billion and what counts, with evaluators, which is what we are going to pay, is 4, 5 billion euros. Moreover, TAP behaves authenticly as a regional company, leaving the country, not providing any public service, looking only at Lisbon airport. The exporting sector is in the North, the fundamental immigration of the 50s, 60s and 70s, to France and to Germany, comes from the North, so there are families that are outside, have family here and need the service of TAP, tourism is in the North, but it is also in Madeira, the Azores, the Algarve. But in the Azores, in Madeira, in Faro, in Porto there is nothing! TAP receives the money from our taxes, in this absolutely brutal dimension, and at the same time does not provide any public service, leaving the country purely and simply. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, in my opinion, this is a double disregard for the taxes of the Portuguese. It is monstrous and is a disrespect because all Portuguese will pay these 4, 5 million euros: the Portuguese of Bragança, Faro, the island of Graziosa, the island of Corvo, Porto Santo, they will all pay! It is 4, 5 billion euros dividing by 10 million Portuguese, which gives on average 450 € to each, i.e., there are Portuguese who will pay 2000, 3000, 4000 € for the TAP, on behalf of the others, for whom it has income parks—cooked! — and will only be able to pay, then, 30 €. But on average, everyone will pay, despite the TAP just looking at a part of the country. So I have two questions. The first is to know the following: 4, 5 billion euros are already guaranteed, 450 € for each Portuguese is already guaranteed. But is that it? Are you sure this is it? Are you sure this is it, or are we gonna have more? The second question is this: despite giving all this money, will the government not impose on TAP? Aren't you going to say that either TAP provides public service and looks at the country as a whole or, then, this exceeds everything that is minimally admissible? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u24	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u25	Mr. President, Mr. Rui Rio, I believe that the best demonstration of the importance of the partial reversal of TAP sales, which we did by the end of 2015 or at the beginning of 2016, was well demonstrated by the fact that TAP had not been dragged into the vicissitudes that affected TAP's main private investor. If we had not taken a control position as we took in 2016, with the vicissitudes that happened to Mr Neeleman in other markets, it would have happened to the TAP as it had to the other companies of Mr Neeleman and now we did not have the TAP purely and simply. I know that you do not appreciate the TAP, which you think TAP workers gain too much, which have too many rights. Well, the truth is, at the moment we have the biggest global crisis in civil aviation, we have the TAP recovering in its activity and we have the TAP workers making a very significant effort, with their own maturity, to help restore the company and it is our conviction that the conditions are created so that by the end of this year the European Commission fully enables the TAP restructuring plan. This will respond to the basic requirement of the Portuguese: we will continue to have a company that ensures our strategic autonomy within the framework of civil aviation, which is absolutely essential for a country with the geographical position of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u26	Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, TAP has always lived from Portuguese taxes and therefore TAP has no point problem with regard to the year 2020 and 2021. The year 2020, when we had to put this whole money into the TAP – let's see if it's not anymore! — it was the right time to open a serious company and not carry a company full of vices. That's my opinion. But right now, I have one more question to ask that has to do with what Mr. Prime Minister has now said. Does the Government have any plan B for the TAP if the European Commission does not allow this financial orgy? What will the government do if the European Commission says no? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u28	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u29	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, you will apologize, but contrary to what I said, since the 1990s, practically, the State has not injected money into the TAP — in fact, it was prevented from doing so. More: he could only now inject money into the TAP because he had an express authorisation from the European Union to be able to do so - because without this authorization from the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union we could not have made this injection. from my point of view, it makes very little sense to make the evaluation of recent years and the implementation of the TAP Strategic Development Plan, developed between 2016 and 2019, not taking into account that, obviously, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018 and in 2019 no one predicted—it was really not necessary that anyone could foresee—the hecatomb that would happen in civil aviation in 2020. Therefore, in the light of what we know today in 2021, what happened in 2020, in relation to what was planned to be done before 2020, will excuse but not rigorous. No one, not even V. Exa, predicted this could happen. Now, it happened that the TAP was caught by this crisis at the most critical moment of its development plan, that is, at the time that, in addition to consolidating a unique position as a European hub of destination Brazil, it was in frank growth for the North American market, significantly reinforcing its position, the centrality of Portugal in transatlantic links. in a situation where, thanks to TAP's work, we were even in a very critical situation of airport operation, what was unimaginable happened, followed what we had only partially experienced in some regions of Europe, during the Iceland volcano, with a general paralysis of civil aviation. This was, of course, fatal to that plan for the expansion of the TAP and forced a complete reorientation of a restructuring plan, which is currently under much advanced discussion with the European Union. As you have certainly had the opportunity to develop multiple negotiations throughout your life, you know that the worst way to negotiate with someone is to begin by admitting the failure of your own proposal and that you have a plan B, a plan C, a plan D... [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is up to the Portuguese Government to support the TAP in negotiating with the European Union. That is what we are going to do, to defend the interests of Portugal and the interests of the Portuguese. in this framework, there is no plan B, there is plan A, which is the plan that we have presented and that is the best plan for the future of Portugal and TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u30	Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u31	Mr President, when Mr. Prime Minister says that no one has been able to predict the pandemic is true, but there have been others who have been able to predict what happens to a company of that kind, in the future, with or without a pandemic. Without pandemics, the previous government—and well— privatized TAP. We would be out of this if they had kept that situation. [[PSD applause.]] After the pandemic, other countries managed to predict what could happen and let go of what is not feasible to do a viable thing. Mr Prime Minister, it is a refugee in the matter of negotiation, but we all know that there is no plan B, that is, if the European Commission leads to such a financial orgy, we are left without TAP and without all these millions that have been put there in the meantime. I will now ask you another question which, in practice, I think was the question that the CDS Member wanted to put, but did it in a more later way. The honourable Member asked if anyone was going to pay more IRS. I will ask you the question very clearly, because that is what I think was in the spirit of the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u32	And you didn't guarantee it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u33	Yeah, he didn't guarantee it. The equation is simple and strategic, absolutely strategic for our economy. Portugal needs growth, Portugal has no growth if it has no investment, there are no investments if there is no capital and Portugal has a shortage of capital and deficit in the external balance. So Portugal needs to sharpen its savings, which is the only way to get domestic capital for the investment that is needed and for the growth that we also need. Today, saving is something that is not at least caressed and is therefore very low. Who put their savings in an apartment and rented it, pays 28 % of IRS and so the thing is still going on. But then those who have savings that put in the bank — a long-term deposit, an obligation, whatever it is — already have a negative real interest rate on which 28 % is paid. In the end, he lost money. This is strategic, for a very simple reason: or we can increase the savings or investment that we will have, to a large extent, will be an investment based on external debt. Well, that's what we can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u34	I appreciate your conclusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. So my question is clear: after the confusion in the electoral campaign, in the Budget Law, will the government penalize more savings or will it understand, once and for all, that saving is absolutely vital? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u36	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u37	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, first of all, 'we were out of this, if TAP was private'? Oh, my God! What does that mean? That the planes had flew instead of being on the ground? Were they the only planes in the world flying? Oh, my God! Or do you think any company that was privatized flew? Do you not know that, being public or private, the pure pandemic has simply paralysed all civil aviation on a global scale? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you think that the States did not inject money into companies that were entirely private? Look: Lufthansa EUR 7 billion, Air France EUR 8 billion, TIU EUR 3500 million, KLM EUR 3400 million, EasyJet EUR 2400 million. In all aviation companies, public or private, States had to inject money into companies not to go bankrupt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I am saying is as follows: with what happened to the main private investor we had in the TAP, what happened in their businesses on a global scale, the TAP had gone along the same path, if the State had not already had the chance to take a strong position in the TAP and put TAP under the vicissitudes that occur, of course, in life as any private entrepreneur. That's what happened. We were cautious and that's why we have TAP. With regard to investment, of course, we need investment and there is something very important: in this crisis, despite the brutal impact it has had, in the first quarter of this year we had a new maximum of private business investment that our country has ever registered. That fruit of what? Based on the confidence that entrepreneurs have in the future of the Portuguese economy and that once the pandemic page has been turned, we will resume the path of sustainable growth that we were once again having to converge with the European Union — for the first time in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, and I believe that in 2021 we will also be reconverging with the European Union. Yeah, and we're gonna have to keep caressing the investment. I know that you have not yet had the opportunity to read with due attention the Recovery and Resilience Plan with the European Union. That is why it continues to say those things, that the PRR is state money for the state, not understanding that at least EUR 11 billion is directed at companies and that EUR 6 billion is intended exclusively and directly to support, in the long run, business investment—in the decarbonisation, in industry 4.0, in the creation of new business areas. I give you the example of the mobilising agendas. of the 140 consortia that appeared, do you know what was the intention of the investment presented? It was 14 billion euros! The duplication of the bazouca was what these consortia presented! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We don't know the proposals yet, we don't know the good ones and the bad ones. Now there is one thing we know: there is effective initiative capacity, entrepreneurial capacity and confidence in the future of the Portuguese economy. And what it is essential for political actors to do is to strengthen the confidence of companies so that they can invest, create more and better jobs and thus change and transform the profile of our economy. That is the movement that is under way, is the movement that we need to accelerate, and now we have unique conditions to accelerate and go beyond what we would go with other resources or if we did not have these which we fortunately negotiated and obtained with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u38	Mr Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor now to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u39	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I wanted to start by giving a brief note: I was a little surprised by the fact that Mr Prime Minister knows nothing about those 110 million euros of stamp tax that EDP was supposed to have paid in January. Let us do this: the Left Block will call the Tax and Customs Authority and the Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs here to explain to Parliament what is going on, because it is not normal that months later there will be no decision on this matter when the obvious is that if all the agent pays their taxes, EDP will surely have to pay them too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u41	Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to talk to you about health. It is recalled that in 2016 there was the goal of the entire population to have a family doctor in 2017. This goal was not met, the past legislature with about 600,000 people without a family doctor ended. The Left Block has been alerting for the need to change the rules to fix professionals in the National Health Service ( SNS ). at this time, there are already more than 1 million people in Portugal, without a family doctor. It is a serious problem of primary care, but it is not only in primary care, far from that. We now have the resignations at the Setúbal Hospital Center — after the clinical director has resigned, there is new solidarity with this — where we know that there are no professionals in such diverse areas as oncology or obstetrics. In Egas Moniz, the National Federation of Doctors ( FNAM ) says, there is a growing resource for privates to perform interventions that were normally made in the public hospital. The Independent Medical Union ( SIM ) comes to say that it has spent 150 million euros a year on service providers to support emergencies in public hospitals, because there are no doctors in public hospitals, and the Portuguese Nurses' Union ( SEP ) has even been alerted today to the fact that so many nurses are leaving the National Health Service, preferring the private or even going abroad. Mr. Prime Minister, there's a concern the Left Block has. Of all the announcements and intentions that the Government has already presented on the next State Budget, we do not know a single measure that allows professionals to be established in the National Health Service, and the truth is that they are missing in fundamental areas. The question I have to ask you is very simple: does the government consider moving in careers so who is trained in the SNS would want to stay there? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u42	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u43	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, since the beginning of the previous legislation, we have been systematically increasing the professionals of the National Health Service. The 25% increase is an increase that was gradual, year by year, and that allows us today to have nearly 30 000 professionals in the National Health Service more than we had at the beginning of 2016. This is a trajectory that has happened. The speaker displayed a chart with the data he mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, in the negotiations we have held on the Budget for next year this is a subject that we have come to deal with and to consider. We are all well aware that many of the competitions that have been opened, unfortunately, have become deserts, even though there is this global increase. We know that this happens especially in some specialties and we also know that this happens especially in some regions of the country. We must have this analysis in order to draw the right measures for them to have the intended effect, which is to avoid deserting competitions where they are becoming deserts and to continue to oppose competitions in significant numbers, where they exist. This is the path we're going to follow. As you know, we will have the opportunity in the next few hours to talk more deeply about this matter and will certainly continue to work together to strengthen the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u44	Mrs Catarina Martins of BE continues to use the word. Do the favor, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u45	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is sometimes the increase in the number of professionals said as a whole tells us little about the capacity of the SNS. SNS needs more people. It has exhausted professionals who have lived the pandemic, we know that we will also have the weight, in the SNS, of the long COVID and, of course, of non-COVID care, which must be resumed — many have been postponed — now with increasing pressure, all this affects professionals who are already exhausted. And, as you know, the increase in the number of professionals does not solve deficiencies in certain specialties or deficiencies in certain areas of the country. That is why we insist: it is necessary to look at careers in the National Health Service. Don't give any perspective to doctors, nurses, technicians, the various professionals who do the SNS, about their career is to question the survival of the National Health Service. So for the Left Block, this is a central path of what will be done. When we talk about the Budget, we need to talk about work, because it is these workers that we also talk about. But, Prime Minister, I would also like to talk to you about pensions. It was made a path between 2015 and 2019, which the Left Block values a lot, about the long-contributory careers, to put an end to very unfair cuts in pensions for those who worked a lifetime. There are still gaps, we haven't moved on to some of the sectors where there's more wear. I recall, for example, the shift workers or the situation of people with disabilities, where studies and advances have been promised and so far nothing concrete. But even in the areas in which it has advanced, there are two injustices that remain and that must be resolved. There are many people who, having more than 40 years of contributions, as they did not have these 40 years on the day they were 60 years old, continue to have access to the reform with a large cut with the sustainability factor. This makes no sense and therefore the only proposal that may exist is to end the cut-off of the sustainability factor, which remains only for some people and creates a relatively inexplicable injustice. We also have the problem of people who reformed between 2014 and 2018, who had the brutal cut of the sustainability factor, who, under the same circumstances, would not have had before 2014 and who after 2018 would not have had it either. And it is very difficult to explain, in this country, because someone who has worked 44 or 46 years has cut the sustainability factor in their pension. Therefore, for the Left Block there are two priorities: one is to end the sustainability factor and the other is to know—and for this I want to know of its availability—recalculate pensions from 2014 to 2018, to remove the sustainability factor to which I would no longer have it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u46	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u47	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the sustainability factor is an essential element in ensuring the sustainability of our social security system. What for decades was one of the central points of right-wing attack on our social security system was theorization of its unsustainability and the promotion, based on this idea of the unsustainability of the public social security system, of multiple social security schemes so-called private. This has obviously meant the need — and must be a fundamental bet — to ensure the sustainability of our social security system. This has been the feature of our reform, and that is what has been underlined internationally as having us today a social security regime that guarantees greater future sustainability. This is something very important for the tranquillity of today's generations, of generations of reformers and of all. This said, we have been doing, since 2017, a progressive work to adjust the sustainability factor to several concrete realities: soon in 2017, in relation to long-term contributory careers for all those who started working at the age of 14 ; then in 2018, we extended this regime to those who had started working at the age of 16 ; then we also introduced, for all those who were 40 years of service and 60 years of age. We are also moving forward last year with a new step towards a set of rapid wear and tear activities, such as mine and mill workers, air traffic controllers, port workers or seafarers associated with fishing. It is therefore a work that we have come to pursue, compatible what justice is, that it is essential to ensure that those who have no opportunity to be children in time to be children and who now have the right to be elderly with conditions of dignity, but at the same time without weakening, under any circumstances, our social security and without creating the least suspicion, in any Portuguese, about their future sustainability. It was this sustainability that we were able to strengthen, after 20 years, in the previous Parliament, which allowed us, for example, to respond with the robustness that we responded to this crisis. And we have to get out of this crisis by recomposing robustness and lasting sustainability of social security, because that is what guarantees the right of the present pensioners, whom we have eliminated the cuts of pensions they had suffered and to whom we have not cut pensions or restricted their increase, now, at this stage of crisis, but we also have to give confidence not only to the people of my generation, who have already contributed long enough to their own pension, as to the new generations, who are entering the labour market, that it is worth discounting for social security, because social security does not exist only for their grandparents, not only for their parents, there also exists for them. We will never be able to challenge this solidarity of generations, this intergenerational security, under the penalty of undermining the confidence and sustainability of the system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u48	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is good not to create ghosts about the sustainability of social security and what is the sustainability factor. First of all, as you know, the Left Block has all the willingness and willingness to move forward in the diversification of sources of social security financing, but that is not what this is about. When we talk about cutting the sustainability factor in pensions, we're talking about a third cut, above other cuts that already exist. Why? The sustainability factor, in fact, was created in 2008 and what I'm talking about, the cut-off of the sustainability factor, was a measure created in 2013 and that began in 2014 — to which we have always called "the injured of Mota Soares" — which makes a cut, to the head, now, of more than 15% of the pension. In the sustainability factor, we have already predicted that the age of reform will always increase. In fact, the Block is answering it, but that's not even what I'm trying to discuss right now. We then have the problem of, for each month that is missing for the legal age of retirement, which is always increasing, there is still a cut of 0, 5 %, i.e. 6 % per year, in the pension. This is the second cut. Then there is a third cut, which is the sustainability factor, this one, 15% to the head, with which we have already agreed, and we are finishing. The question that remains today, and that is what Mr. Prime Minister would like to answer, is the following: how can we tell someone who has today 42 years of contributing career and 63 years of age who, if you want to reform, will have the cut of 15, 5 %, in the head, of the sustainability factor, while a person who is next to you, who has 41 years of contributing career, but has reached 40 years of career when he was 60 years old and therefore is even younger and even less contributing career, will you not have that cut? How do we justify and legitimize a social security system with these related injustices? Oh, my God! Another question: how do we justify that a person who began working as a child, as Mr. Prime Minister now remembered and whose pensions we protected in the last legislature, and who reformed with 44 or 45 years of contributions, until 2014 did not have the cut-off of the sustainability factor, after 2018, did not have the cut-off of the sustainability factor, but, if he had the chance of reforming between 2014 and 2018, had the cut-off of the sustainability factor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u50	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u51	The question I leave to you, Prime Minister, is whether you live well with this relative injustice or if this is not the time to put an end to these injustices and, thus, legitimize equality and justice in pensions for everyone in Portugal, ending with the cutout of the sustainability factor and recalculating the pensions that, unjustly, had it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u52	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u53	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I thank you for your questions. The world and country, Portugal, face multiple problems and therefore the needs are relatively unlimited, but the resources are relatively finite. This essentially justifies the existence of political decision-makers, in order to know how to arbitrate between the multiple needs and the resources that exist, which are the priorities. I was listening to her and wondering if this conversation had been held a year ago. A year ago, what we had on the table, what we were all distressed about was how we would survive the brutal crisis with which the pandemic — a word that has not been used since the beginning of this debate — had reached the country. And it is absolutely extraordinary that, when we arrived in October 2021, the first time the word'pandemic' is now used by my mouth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, it happens that we are at a time of page turn of the pandemic, from a health point of view, and we all want nothing to go back. But the social pandemic has not ended: there are many companies at risk of closing; there are many thousands of jobs that have been lost and not all have been recovered; there are incomes that have been cut and that continue to be cut. Today, the world lives surrounded by uncertainties and disruptions in its supply chain, which makes companies, despite viable, despite having orders, cannot produce, because they are waiting for, for example, a microchip that is produced somewhere in Korea or Asia and that does not arrive. We are currently having a brutal impact on industry, which is a threat to our economic recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u54	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u55	We therefore have to define very clearly what are the priorities. And, ladies and gentlemen, with all honesty, I really believe that the urgency of this State budget will be to continue to respond to the social emergency that emerged from the COVID crisis and that we cannot give over.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u56	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u57	That is where we must continue to put our greatest effort. Then, here we will be, within a year, to discuss other budgets and to solve other problems, especially those inherited from the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u58	It is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to put his questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u59	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that the problems of the pandemic are more alleviated, but the old problems remain here all, with pandemic or without pandemic. And it is the epidemic that I would like to put the first idea: we tried to give the answer that was required and the PCP intervened in order to guarantee the full payment of wages, the automatic renewal of unemployment allowances, more children with free daycare and the increase of pensions to 1 million and 900 thousand pensioners. Today, in the face of the bulk of unanswered problems over the years and particularly when financial means are available and ads are made behind advertisements, it is not acceptable for the Government to continue without responding to the problems of the country, a broad and profound response that puts the lives of the Portuguese in front of the deficit targets, a response that, in what is decisive and structural, does not remain to replicate options favourable to the interests of the great capital, as it has been happening, and the last examples are the dismissals and closures of the Matosinhos refinery and Saint-Gobain Sekurit. Yes, there is an urgent need for a new path to the country, as the CFP has defended. The Portuguese workers and people want effective answers, answers in the State budget, but also beyond their content. The general increase in wages, a national emergency that requires the elimination of the expiry of collective bargaining, an increase in the national minimum wage that breaks with the trajectory dictated by the pressures of the great patronage, the end of more than a decade of freezing of the salaries of the Public Administration and the elimination of the injustices of the assessment system and a mixed remuneration table. The fight against precariousness and wild working hours cannot be postponed. By continuing the course of the increase in lower pensions, we can no longer postpone — and this issue, recently, has been absent — the recovery of the purchasing power lost by pensioners with pensions of more than € 658. Investment in public services cannot be delayed, starting with the SNS, with priority for the valuation of careers and wages capable of ensuring the establishment of professionals and the strengthening of health units. And this investment is placed on the agenda, as demonstrated by the case of Setúbal Hospital. But also in terms of investment in security forces, education and justice, an answer must be given. You cannot delay and must guarantee the public daycare for all children, accompanied by the construction of a public daycare network. A fiscal policy cannot be postponed which degrades, in fact, the lowest and lowest incomes and intermediate incomes and definitely taxes dividends, profits and high wealth. The response to housing problems cannot be postponed, either by building public housing, or by changing the income law, to ensure stability and control of the value of income. The national situation also calls for other options to ensure economic instruments and the material basis for developing the country. The recovery of public control of strategic sectors and companies is required, the diversification of economic activity, and the halting of deindustrialisation. It is necessary to promote national production and combat environmental degradation, with the promotion of public transport, the protection of public water and the promotion of sovereignty and energy efficiency. The PCP is, as it has always been, available to build the necessary solutions and answers. But the CFP brought to the discussion the repeal of the serious standards of labour law and the PS, with the support of the right, rejected it. The PCP brought to the discussion the reduction of energy price and the control of fuel price, changes to lease, to ensure protection of the right to housing, and the increase of the national minimum wage, but the PS, with the support of the right, rejected all this. Frankly, Prime Minister, are these the signs that the PS wants to give in response to the lives of millions of Portuguese people? Oh, my God! What is the meaning of these options when discussing the State Budget? If you can, answer, Prime Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u60	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u61	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I thank you for your questions. Yes, there is more life beyond the Budget, and that is why many of the subjects you have put here, as you know, will have an answer to the legislative development of the Dignified Work Agenda, which we have presented. We have been negotiating in social dialogue, we are also concluding it, and it will soon be translated into legislative initiatives that will be present here in the Assembly of the Republic. We have shared many of your concerns and have given answers to many of these concerns together. In the implementation of the State budget for 2021, which was feasible, in particular due to the struggle and effort of the Portuguese Communist Party, it was possible that a total of 22 500 children had been brought up free of charge, and it was possible to extend by this year to the incomes of the 2. the step, covering more than 35 000 children; there was an extraordinary extension of the unemployment allowance, covering 48 000 people; there was extraordinary support for workers' income to more 265 000 people; thanks to the proposal of the PCP, since January that the layoff is paid to 100 %; there was an extraordinary update of pensions—one more! — covering 1, 9 million pensioners; penosity and health benefits were introduced for workers in the collection of solid waste in the municipalities; the allowance was introduced for workers in the essential services; the pay supplement was introduced for the exercise of health authority functions; the risk allowance and pay supplement was introduced for the professionals of the security forces; contracts in public services, security forces, non-teachers in schools, social security, the Act (Working Conditions Authority) and prison guards were increased. Only in non-teaching staff in schools were the hiring of 5000 operational assistants. There were more contracts in the National Health Service : no. 1. the term of 2021, 2464 term contracts ; paragraph 2. the semester, we continue; and the annual goal of 4200 professionals will be reached. The investments that have been established in the field of health: the replacement of heavy equipment in hospitals; the internalization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy; the investment in primary health care; and, in housing, also for social services of the Republican National Guard and the Public Security Police, which can build or rehabilitate 473 housing fires, with funds already recorded under the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, in conclusion, the funds for student residences and — unfortunately, implemented in a rather insufficient way — a proposal which the CFP also supported from the ENP initiative of the treasury fund for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We are the first or, better, the seconds to be aware that you need to be frankly improved. Therefore, Mr President, we not only generally share your concerns as we have been implementing, or continue to implement, the set of measures which have been adopted under the 2021 budget, and so will we also do within the framework of which we hope we will agree on the State budget for 2022. As for extra-budgetary matters, we will have answers, one within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda and the other within the framework of the New Habitat Policy Generation, responding to the many needs of our country and our people, the needs that you mentioned here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u62	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa remains in the use of the word, although for a short time, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u63	Mr President, although with limited time, I would like to say the following to Mr Prime Minister: our great concern and concern is that, in fact, the commitment to overcome these objective difficulties that I have put in the intervention was not clear. That is why we, who recognize and know the merit and meaning of our proposals, are concerned that we have not been accompanied by the Government in the implementation of proposals, some of which are still being implemented in the State budget itself for 2021, in force. So, as it is usually said, looking at the situation in the country, looking at the state in which our country is, taking into account the concerns that millions of Portuguese have about their lives, we can say that we get out of here worried...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u64	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u65	... and that those who are not concerned are certainly distracted, because the government has not responded to what is fundamental. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u66	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u67	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, in addition to having the duty, the obligation to be concerned, I believe that we are indeed unable to be concerned. When the country faced the biggest economic crisis that it ever had, when we were on the brink of the greatest social crisis that the country had, when we were facing the biggest health crisis we faced, we can only be concerned about the consequences of everything we live this year and a half. Anyway, there are some data that justify our trust. First of all, the set of measures we identified and adopted here about a year ago allowed unemployment to be prevented from reaching 18, 5 % of the previous crisis, had never exceeded 8 % and is now 6 4 %. In addition, we managed to avoid much of the catastrophe that made some move away from the course line that we started in 2016, afraid of what would happen throughout this year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u68	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u69	... and there were those — I must acknowledge that the PCP was one of them — who remained firm in the struggle and identification of concrete solutions to the concrete problems that I would face. And one by one, these measures have been adopted. Is there a set of problems? There! And now we have to do what? We have to do what we did last year, what we did two years ago, what we did in the last six years, that is, for each problem to find the solution. We know that the timetable for this debate does not exactly correspond to the immediate calming of many of your concerns, but I am sure that on Monday, when you enter the Assembly of the Republic the State Budget will, otherwise, be less concerned than you are today. However, there is no reason for us to stop maintaining a general concern. No one can have the illusion that, after the crisis we have had and in the face of the seriousness of the problems that the country is going through, in a finger burst, the problems will disappear. Don't! It's going to be years of a lot of struggle that we're going to have in front and so I've said this is the most exciting moment to be here to face, face and lead what it takes to respond to the needs of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I am sure that the PCP will not fail to the commitment it has to the country and to the Portuguese people! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u70	For the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, every year in Portugal our taxpayers pay EUR 500 million for the tax exemptions and bills that are given to EDP and other polluting activities. This is not the path that the NAP defends, it is not the path of relief from families, nor is it the path of environmental commitments which Portugal must follow. We have already heard it today about the need to get out of the crisis, but the crisis is not resolved, in this economic recovery, without talking about people and not talking about social justice and environmental justice. In fact, I would like to remind you here today, the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Eng.António Guterres, which already in May 2019, said that governments should first change the taxes of wages for carbon and, secondly, stop subsidizing fossil fuels and that taxpayers' money should not serve to boost hurricanes, droughts, heat waves, ice-cream and attack corals. Although the Government has been reducing the exemptions on oil products for the production of energy in our country, in particular from coal, exemptions for energy production are maintained through other fossil energies, such as gas. So, Prime Minister, today we would like to know whether or not we are going to follow the NAP proposal and whether we are going to contribute to eliminate, once and for all, the exemptions from oil taxes and with these funds, to allow the tax burden on the family to be lightened, to be reviewed between the 3. o and 6. the steps of the IRS, if, in this Budget, you will hand over to families, to young people, increase retirement pensions or if, on the contrary, we will continue to allow tax cancellations that not only serve the environmental commitments that Portugal has signed, nor do they serve to relieve the pockets of families every month. [[Thank you very much, Mr. PAN Nelson Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u72	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u73	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, here the debate between us is more difficult because we are starting from a common point of view and from a common point of view on the problem. It is easy to debate with the CDS, which likes to subsidize fossil fuels. Among us, the debate is more difficult since we all have the same notion that we need to end any subsidization in relation to fossil fuels, we need to tax fossil fuels. In fact, the fiscal architecture of States has increasingly to be based on labour taxation and increasingly based on taxation of what is generated by environmental liabilities, including decarbonisation. We therefore depart from the same point of view, which is why there is no proper debate here in order to be in favour or against, but rather a debate on which is the best way to get there, what is the pace possible to get there. Like I said—and good! — since 2018 we have been successively eliminating the full allowance for fossil fuels and we will continue on this path. As we are going to continue to degrade income on work, in particular, we have already said publicly, we are going to break down the steps of the IRS, a measure that the NAP has defended and that will have a clear translation in this State budget. In fact, we need more environmentally smart taxation and we need to continue to work in this direction. I believe that the State Budget for 2022 is another good opportunity for us to take a step towards having the right incentives in the right direction of the decarbonization of our economy and society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u74	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, in fact speaking of environmental justice is to speak in social justice and it is imperative that this debate be held in this serious manner. But I cannot but speak to you about Pandora Papers, precisely because, according to the Tax Authority, the value transferred last year to offshore companies was EUR 6.8 billion, which meant an increase of around 14 % compared to 2019. The Pandora Papers case showed us a reality that was already public knowledge. We are not going to pronounce ourselves on the names involved and on the discredit that this causes politics, which, of course, Mr Prime Minister will very much agree. What we need to know at this time is what the government will do to ensure a fight against tax havens, either within doors, particularly with the free zone of Madeira, either from an international point of view, ensuring that, with the European Union and the international community, there is the creation of an international register of effective beneficiaries, since the information exchange system associated with BEPS (Erosion and profit shifting) has not proved sufficient for this issue. [[Thank you very much, Mr. PAN Nelson Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u76	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u77	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, it is known that the position of the Government is that, progressively, everything that is offshore should be eliminated as quickly as possible. As far as Madeira is concerned, there has been a profound transformation that has, in fact, allowed for its reclassification, but we have come to adopt a set of measures aimed, precisely, at eliminating benefits and increasing taxation of any income from offshores as a source, the increase in taxation of related operations, the prohibition of access to tax benefits or any other form of support. We now have a list of 81 countries, territories and regions that, according to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) are considered to be offshore and are covered by the Multilateral Agreement within the framework of the OECD and the State Budget for 2021, currently in force, strongly penalized entities resident in tax havens. That is why we have seen over the past few years a very significant reduction in the number of transfers of funds from these entities to / and from Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u78	Continues in the use of the word, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u79	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question, which concerns the New Bank — this is indeed an issue of the Budget which has been forgotten. However, a few months ago the Court of Auditors said that the State could be called on to put more than EUR 1, EUR 6 billion in the next few years, this within the framework of the so-called « security network », which was defined in the negotiations with the European Commission. What I ask you very directly, even because time is short, is whether the government will opt for a security network to the new Bank or whether it will choose to give a security network to taxpayers that avoids more waste and more money to the bank, because, indeed, this also contributes to the budgetary balance in order to relieve families. [[Thank you very much, Mr. PAN Nelson Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u80	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u81	Mr President, Member of Parliament, the security network for taxpayers created the State when, at the time of sale, it set a maximum ceiling for the possibility of being called to strengthen capital. This is no longer happening last year, we do not have the least expectation that this will happen for the year, and I therefore believe that this is really a topic that will, fortunately, disappear from our political debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u82	It's the Greens' turn. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u83	Mr President, Prime Minister, I did not want to bring to the debate the « bazauca » and what has been going to « bazaucar» and to promise by the country during the election campaign, but I make a promise that is, moreover, before the « bazauca » and that is related to the illegal catch of bivalves in the Tejo estuary. As we know, the unregulated catch of bivalves continues to boost a serious set of problems, not only environmental issues, but also social and, above all, public health. in this context, it is particularly important to build the bivalve processing unit that was planned for the Barreiro, which would contribute to solving some of these problems. This work was announced by the government in 2017, but the process is apparently stopped due to problems with the foundations. In the debate which the Greens had scheduled, at the beginning of July, it was announced in the plenary by the Minister of the Sea that the work for this unit in the Barreiro would start in August. August has passed, September is already there, October is almost halfway, and nothing works! So there is the question, Mr Prime Minister : for when will the start of these works be so important to the problem of the illegal catch of bivalves? Another point, Mr Prime Minister: the case of the flight to justice of former banker João Rendeiro — who, however, must be enjoying the millions he has hidden in any tax haven in this world — and, more recently, the Pandora Papers case calls us to reflect on the immorality that represents tax havens. In fact, we all know what they serve and who they serve in tax havens. They serve great fortunes and big businesses and serve so that these great fortunes do not pay taxes and hide money. In our view, a State cannot deal with mechanisms used to escape the payment of tax obligations and to hide money. For this reason, and despite the votes against the PSD and the CDS, the Greens have adopted a resolution in this House so that the Government takes the initiative to engage with the international organizations it is part of to end tax havens. Mr Prime Minister recently referred to some internal measures, such as the escalation of taxation within IMI (municipal property tax) and IMT (municipal tax on onerous transfers of property) and, in fact, it was on a proposal from the Greens in the State budget. He was interested to know what the Government was available to launch in the direction of this resolution at the international level. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u84	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u85	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, on a proposal from the Greens, in the State budget for 2021, two very important measures were introduced. One was that there would be no public support, even in the context of the fight against COVID, to entities based in tax havens. The second was the increase in IMI and IMT rates in the acquisition of buildings by these entities. Portugal has been very active both within the OECD and within the European Union as regards the adoption of international measures to combat this fiscal benefit plague. Regarding the escape of Dr. João Rendeiro, of course, that all of us, individually, as citizens, share the general revolt and the perplexity about how this was possible. You will understand that, as a government, while respecting the principle of separation and interdependence of powers, we will not comment on the judicial vicissitudes of these matters. Finally, about the Tejo bivalves processing unit, what we know is that there had to be a revision of the contract price, which implies a multi-year fee authorisation, which is in the process of being signed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u86	Mr. José Luís Ferreira continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u87	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we note the fact that the Government intends to take seriously the recommendation that the Greens have passed on to tax havens. Last February, we were aware of the resignation of the President of the Monitoring Board of the CAP Review ( common agricultural policy ). After that, it was the turn of six more experts from this council, who had been appointed by the government, to do the same. The reasons for these resignations, according to themselves, are linked to the lack of democratic dialogue and because those who rely on an ecologically inadequate system are not interested in a strategy that protects the environment. Now there were 87 doctors from the Setúbal Hospital Center who resigned, as a cry of revolt in the face of the desperate situation and of rupture in various services. And finally we have the resignation of the President of the Board of Directors of the CP ( Trains of Portugal ). Mr. Prime Minister, this reminds us of a general ban. And in the case of the CP, what we have seen is that the public rail transport service is being severely penalized by a policy of financial suffocation by the government. The Government cannot announce the wagering on the railway and at the same time impose financial constraints on basic acquisitions as minimum components, but which are indispensable. Mr Prime Minister, I believe that we had every opportunity to understand what you have to say about these resignations, in particular about the resignation of the President of the COP, even taking into account the reasons that led to that resignation. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u88	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u89	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I am so quick to be accused of not remodeling the government as being surrounded by a general ban. Well, there's no general shelter, we're all standing here to continue our work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, they are resignations that have multiple and own causes. On the question of the CP, I am particularly sorry that a very good job was being done. The President of the COP himself had the opportunity to explain in public document the personal reasons that led to his resignation, which I can only regret. However, it is obviously not at stake the high priority that the Government places on the railway. As you know, at the moment, we have been making the biggest investment in railways over the last 100 years, the southern rail corridor, and in addition to the infrastructure, a remarkable work has been done from the point of view of rebuilding Portuguese industrial capacity in rail matters. We have put the Guifões workshop into operation and will soon be opening up the railway competence centre. At the Guifões workshops, for example, it was possible to do an absolutely extraordinary job of recovering a set of buses acquired from Spain, which were rehabilitated, with a huge saving of our resources. It was about EUR 40 million that we saved in relation to the acquisition of new compositions, if we had done so, and with something very important: it is that this investment in rail has a locomotive effect of the economy as a whole and the best demonstration is precisely in the recovery of these carriages.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u90	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u91	I shall now conclude, Mr President. More than 50 Portuguese companies contributed directly to the recovery of those carriages with the supply of components and this recovery had 95 % national incorporation. Therefore, both for environmental reasons and for economic reasons, investment in rail is absolutely crucial, it must continue to be careful and we must create the best conditions for public companies to operate according to what they are: companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u92	Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u93	Mr President, Prime Minister, taking up the case of the former President of the BPP ( Banco Privado Português ), but from another point of view, I ask: what measures did the Government take, within its possibilities and taking into account the separation of powers in the six years it has taken power, so that such a scandal could not be given? It is heard and read everywhere that we have strong justice with the weak and weak with the strong. Mr. Prime Minister, this has to end. Since there are several potential candidates to join the diligent Dr. Rendeiro — and we all know very well who they are! — question: what measures or reforms does the Executive intend to encourage them not to repeat situations like this again? That is to say, we have the perfect notion of the separation of powers and limits from the government, but we also have the notion that the party that supports the government can, with the support of other parties here, at least with our own, promote structural reforms that allow these cases to never happen again. The question that remains, then, Mr Prime Minister, is this: within your possibilities and taking into account the party that supports it, can we expect a structural reform which leads to basic changes and to which this cannot happen again?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u94	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u95	Mr President, Mr Pacheco de Amorim, I must say that I am a little surprised by your question, because none of us are able to comment on the specific case and, even though we were, none of us could or should do it, but we all know the law. I do not believe that there is any lack of law in relation to coercion measures which, at the different stages of the process, can be adopted to prevent the flight to a foreign country of someone who is accused, accused or convicted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, if there were reasons to apply this measure, if the judge or judge in charge of the trial, in his judgment, understood that he should apply it or not, I do not know and, even if he knew, he should not even be able to comment. If you have any concrete measures to propose to prevent repeated situations such as this, of course, we will be available to consider it. As we have negatively appreciated initiatives such as chemical castration and others, which, in the criminal context, arrive, we always have hope—because this is the last to die, for an optimist, then even more so! — that, one day, the Commission submits a relevant, concrete and effective proposal so that justice can be more effective. If you have to present it, you will be very welcome, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u96	For the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, my first of two questions must be on the State budget, until yesterday there was a clarification session promoted by the Government. Finally, session, yes, clarification, less, because I did not know exactly how much I would be available to TAP in the next Budget, how the steps of the IRS would be unfolded, that income would be covered in this IRS—it will certainly be another tax increase! — what will be the tax burden provided for in the 2022 budget, what will be the percentage of public expenditure on GDP — I know only that the negotiations, which have not yet ended, with the CFP and the Block, will certainly increase that public expenditure ratio. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] What we learned, however, was that spending with the Public Administration, in a wage mass, will rise more than 5 % and, in the specific case of the SNS, will rise more than 10 %, as if to throw money over the SNS would be able to solve the situations that have already occurred at the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, or that will probably occur at the Hospital de Egas Moniz, in Lisbon, or in Santo André, in Leiria, or in Faro, or in Guarda. And these are just some of the problems that are there! Another thing we learned was that by 2024 Portugal will grow less than most of the countries with which it should be compared. It is in the government's macroeconomic forecasts, which can be compared with the forecasts of the other governments and the PRRs they have submitted. So if Portugal cannot converge, if it cannot control public expenditure at a time when it does not have limits to the budget deficit, where it has historically low interest rates for years after and at which it has a very low public investment rate, when will it achieve? Mr. Prime Minister, don't you think you are at risk of staying in history as the Prime Minister of the missed opportunity?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u98	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u99	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, as you know, whatever my journey, your letter is made: « the Prime Minister of the missed opportunity ». This is guaranteed and therefore not by the way of acting here as an outside speaker that will be different from what the posters say. As such, it is not worth being concerned about this. I see that the honourable Member did not know what the budget proposal was going to propose, but, although the honourable Member did not know what it was going to propose, I listened carefully to what he said at the end of the hearing with the Government: that he would vote against. Therefore, you did not need to know what the Budget says because you already know that you will vote against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This has the virtuosity of transforming our conversation into a conversation of enormous transparency. Say what the Budget says, you're against it. There are those who say « if there is government, I am against », already the honourable Member is those who say « there is budget, I am against ». Okay, it's a liberal attitude! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, in this fantastic liberal world where you would like to live, there was no need for budget. There would be nothing to tax and much less to spend. So we're going to have a budget for what? There's Budget, it's against, and I only congratulate you for that. Indeed, there is one point that you should retain: that of expenditure in the Public Administration. It is just that, absurdly, the next Budget did not foresee the annual update of wages, even if it did not foresee the hiring of new employees who are missing, even if it again freezes careers, even if all this happened, only with what has so far been approved by the Assembly of the Republic over the past year...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u100	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u101	...we already had a few hundred million euros of increased expenditure. And, I must tell you, without the support of that terrible thing that socialists are! [[PS Members' laughs.]] Yes, there are many of these proposals that have increased expenditure and that have not been with the favorable vote of this terrible thing that socialists are,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u102	Which one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u103	...was with the vote of other neighbors! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u104	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, we meet in this debate with Prime Minister two months after the debate on the state of the nation. at that time, in this Chamber, voices were heard from those who continued to doubt the success of vaccination, and we were talking about 42% of the already vaccinated Portuguese population. It's been two months, we have 87% of the Portuguese with full vaccination... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and not a word if you hear in here, how much more it is to say: "We were deceived! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Not at all! Two months ago, they said here that everything we had promised in the Budget for 2021 — and we are at the door of the Budget for 2022 — did not respond to the problems of the greatest crisis we have experienced in the last two years. Today, we look at unemployment rates and we can say that this rate is at the levels before the pandemic, which means that the response that the Government has given, the measures it has taken, the support it has given to job maintenance and also to companies has had results and the results have been that we have not fallen into a disastrous unemployment rate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Two months ago, he was questioning himself here, and today we heard Mrs Cecilia Meireles do so — whether we would grow up or not. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our economy is once again showing absolute resilience. In the last two quarters, the Portuguese economy has increased again, resisted, despite the pandemic, and is growing above the euro area or above the European Union average — and not a word about it. There are, in fact, two notes which must be underlined and which are absent from this debate. The gentlemen. Members have passed the autorquic campaign—and I take it to greet all the elected in the last elections—that is to say the PRR—and already Mrs Cecilia Meireles said so today—is the "book of checks" of the Socialist Party Government. I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members if you don't have any more things to say about the PRR,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u106	I have, I have!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u107	...for example, what vision they have for the country. There is a vision that we have heard today from Mr Rui Rio, who, in fact, completely resigns from discussing this House. He likes to discuss in front of the media microphones, which is easy, but he does not like to be confronted here with the proposals that the PRR has and the strategy that closes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Rui Rio thinks that the only thing there is to say is that the national minimum wage cannot be increased. Fortunately, we will continue to increase the national minimum wage! But the honourable Member has returned today to tell what the PSD is coming. It is that if the PSD managed this crisis, the privatisation of the TAP led to even more layoffs, it would not care what TAP means as a strategic sector of the Portuguese economy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u109	... I wouldn't be worried about direct or indirect jobs. But look at the cluster: in the middle of this pandemic and despite the pandemic, exports have risen and one of those responsible for the increase in exports is called TAP, Mr Deputies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we already know what Mr and Mr PSD's revenue is: privatising. So today they don't talk about public services or health, because it was right to raise the pope and the devil about health during the campaign. I would like Mr. Prime Minister here to tell us, for example, about health—since the PSD did this flag in his own campaign—if he is in a position to guarantee that Coimbra's maternity will be a promise by this government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...in fact, in the logic of what has been our efforts and the government's effort to increase and invest in health. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a legislature and I hope that we are all aware that, after this year and a half of the pandemic, what needs to be done are choices, and very clear choices. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need to know is that, in order to recover economically and socially, we have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! — the revenue from cutting pensions in Brussels does not work. The revenue that works is to make good use of the funds that come there for the PRR, so that we can make the transformations in the country, absolutely necessary and to which we must all be committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second instrument is to talk about the State budget. And here I believe, Mr. Prime Minister, that we must remember the path that has been made since 2015, led by the Socialist Party and with the support to the left, and that fear before the pandemic cannot win, because the results are there. That is why, Prime Minister, the way we are going to have to go forward in economic recovery is to choose whether or not we want to invest in our business fabric, whether or not we want to bet and help the middle class, by fiscally relieving the middle class, giving a definitive answer to what the younger ones want, and also the need to bet on younger families, whether in housing, whether in employment or, above all, on wage improvement, which imposes themselves on economic recovery. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u110	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u111	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, there is one piece worth reading: precisely the speech with which Mr Rui Rio justified the vote against the PSD in the State budget for 2021, a piece that sets out a whole view on how to deal with this crisis. Mr Rui Rio's first remark — and, if I may, I will quote: 'The budget is not realistic and I risk saying that we will hardly have the corrective budget in the case of this State budget going through. » We arrived in October and we have no amending budget for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dr. Rui Rio's vision of how the State should interact with families at the time of the greatest crisis we were living in. And I quote: 'I repeat, I do not find it appropriate to increase the national minimum wage. » He was against the increase in the national minimum wage, providing that he would drag from there, again, the devil of unemployment. Unemployment did not rise, unemployment fell and, fortunately, people were entitled to an increase in national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But Dr. Rui Rio was not only against the increase in wages. Dr. Rui Rio thought that, even at that moment of greater difficulty in the lives of families, they should not be relieved of their charges. And then Dr. Rui Rio said: « Download again the tips of higher education makes no sense. In other words, according to Dr. Rui Rio, Portuguese families did not need support to lower the cost of higher education so their children could, despite the crisis, continue to attend higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, we already know that Dr. Rui Rio is against TAP support because it is a regional company. It must also be why it has already publicly regretted supporting a company such as Dielmar, because it is from Alcains, and therefore is also a regional company and not a company of the greatest importance for a whole region. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This well demonstrates two political views, both legitimate but diametrically opposed, of looking and facing a crisis. Dr. Rui Rio, the PSD and, I presume, the CDS also continue to have the view that crises are responding with austerity, our conviction is that crises are responding with solidarity. And it is solidarity that has allowed us to be faced with and to overcome this crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is this concept of devaluation of the importance of the investment that led to the fact that the main party of the opposition, in particular, was completely disinterested in what should be the concrete design of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. And I must say that this is all the more surprising as one of the most important Euro MPs for Portugal to have a Recovery and Resilience Plan like this one that we have at our disposal is precisely a PSD Member who did an absolutely extraordinary job, the Euro MP José Manuel Fernandes, and yet the PSD was not able to understand that this was a plan for the country, for the Portuguese, for the Portuguese, for the national economy and that it was not a government plan and much less for the Government party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, I must say that I am absolutely disturbed when I hear about the measures provided for in the PRR as being promised. But have they not realized that there is a contract signed between the Portuguese Republic and the European Commission, which specifies the measures, the investments to be made, where they will be made, the timetable on which they must be made? I believe that the great luck of the PSD's authorships is, fortunately, this government is not the PSD and is a government that is here to implement the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The construction of a new motherhood in Coimbra — should like because it is not planned in the Recovery and Resilience Plan! — it is indeed a commitment from this Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u112	from the previous one was too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u113	There was a great debate in the city, there was a great technical debate, there was a big debate which involved the government where the new motherhood of Coimbra should be located. The municipality of Coimbra had one position, the services of the Ministry of Health had another position. There was a very intense dialogue with the City Council of Coimbra, but the fact is that in July of this year, the Minister of Health approved the location proposed by the Board of Directors of the Hospital Center of the University of Coimbra and determined the dialogue with the City Council of Coimbra for a definitive agreement on the location of the hospital. This dialogue continued and, in August, the Board of Directors of the Hospital Center of the University of Coimbra sent all the documentation to the City Council of Coimbra on the location, all the studies and all that was necessary to the functional program, already approved, for the construction of the new motherhood of Coimbra. The electoral campaign certainly did not allow the Coimbra City Hall to respond definitively at the most appropriate time. Obviously, as we all know, there has been a change in the presidency of the Coimbra City Council and, therefore, the Board of Directors of the Hospital Center of the University of Coimbra has already met informally with the elected president and give him all the information available. We will wait more than two or three weeks for the new House to take possession and, of course, have the right to appreciate what will be a fundamental work for the future of the city. For our part, we have everything ready to launch the contest tomorrow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can launch the competition tomorrow, but I believe that it sends common sense, it sends democratic respect, it commands respect for the competences of the Coimbra City Council, which we await the taking over of the new President, that the new Executive should take office and speak on this matter. Those who have waited so many years can certainly wait a few more weeks. If you understand that the rush must overlap with respect for the democratic election in the city of Coimbra, we will launch-CL- it tomorrow; if you understand, as I think it is sensible for all, to wait for the new House to hold, wait for it and resume the dialogue at the point where we are left with the elements of the Municipal Chamber that now cease to function. But, for there to be no doubt, this is no promise, they are not subjects of electoral speech. It's concrete work, it's done and ready to go to the ground. That is what we need to do as quickly as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u114	The PS Parliamentary Group continues to speak. Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the elections took place last September 26th. All Members and all Members. Members, all Portuguese know who won the elections and who lost them, who deserved the confidence of the majority of Portuguese and Portuguese and those who still remain in minority in appreciation of the political performance of the representation of the general will, of the will of all Portuguese and of all Portuguese. I had the opportunity to accompany the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, who is our Prime Minister, throughout the country and throughout the country I was able to hear the commitments, which are development commitments, to unlock structural blockades to the economic and social development of our country. For at the first session here we had, a few days ago, we could hear the opposition asking the Socialist Party if he wanted to fulfil the electoral commitments. It is very important that once again we refer to the opposition that we have been talking about to commitments that are being contracted by the country with the European Union, and now all the autarches and all the autarches are being called upon to fulfil the commitments made with the European Union, in particular with regard to the implementation of the Recovery and Resilence Plan, and also to actively participate in the priorities of the multiannual financial framework for which the regional coordination and development committees themselves, listening to the autarches and the autarches of this country, will have to establish and implement the priorities for this regional development. It is true that today a good opportunity which the opposition here had to put the doubts it had in the election campaign to the Prime Minister has been lost. He lost this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister whether the commitments he made, not only with regard to motherhood in Coimbra, but also with regard to investment in rail, transport and mobility, the commitments he made to qualify and modernize the National Health Service, the commitments he made with regard to the qualification of the Research Centre, the Knowledge Centre and the transfer of this knowledge to the country's social and economic structure. It is regrettable that today's opposition, in the first meeting with the Prime Minister, after an election campaign in which they have spent their time attacking the Secretary-General for being on an election campaign and talking about his vision for the country, does not take advantage of asking him today questions about the commitments that will be honoured and fulfilled in this election mandate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, to finish, and since the opposition today did not want to take advantage of this opportunity—... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u116	Would you like to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u117	I will conclude, Mr President, by asking the Socialist Party: commitment to the Portuguese and Portuguese as the one that was assumed here in relation to the motherhood of Coimbra; commitments of investments in housing, rail, health, the qualification of higher education institutions and the research centre, are or are they to execute and fulfill? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u118	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u119	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, yes, in fact, he hoped that some parties that had so much shouted about the violation of the Electoral Law had already apologized, after the National Elections Commission had decided not even notified me to be heard, because he considered that there was no basis for any of the complaints that were made about my intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, as we all know, it is sometimes risky to make commitments in political life, because there are many unexpected things that, however good we have when we make commitments, we do not control the possibility of implementing them. this time it was all very easy, because there were no promises to make. It was simply to describe what Portugal had entered into with the European Commission that the European Commission had to finance and, therefore, did not foresee possible implementation or non-implementation. What is absolutely extraordinary is that both the party leaders themselves and the leaders of their parties had not claimed their winnings in relation to the commitments made by the European Commission. That is absolutely extraordinary! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what we have to do is very simple: we need to get our sleeves together, put our hands on it and put the Recovery and Resilience Plan on the ground which is already under way. I don't know, I've lost my account, although the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action knows, but thousands of families have already received funds from the Recovery and Resilience Fund precisely because of the interventions they have made with regard to the energy efficiency of their homes. at this time, there are already companies that are applying for open funds; there are institutions of higher education to apply for open funds; there are already authorities that have contracted the realization of works; there are CIM (intermunicipal communities) that have already contracted their works. I give an example, among many others that could give, because I watched: for years, they were promising to make the dam of Pisão, fundamental to all the Alentejo. It is already contracted with the CIM of the High Alentejo the realization of the barrier of Pisão. You only have to run now, because your funding is contracted! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have found in this campaign that there is a huge distance between party leaders, their authorships and reality on the ground. They live in a fictional reality that has nothing to do with the reality of what is happening in the country, what their own authorship is doing, what their own authorship is contracting and the national effort to recover and transform our country. Fortunately, there is government ; fortunately, there is a large national majority to support this transformation, and we count on the autarchs of all parties to give good implementation to this Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u120	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start the second round of this debate, the Bureau reports that, as usual in these debates, the negative times that have been accumulated in the meantime are cut off in the time of the second round, so that the rule can be maintained. Let us then start the second round and to this end have the floor on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Morais Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, at the end of last legislative session, Parliament adopted amendments to two fundamental, structural laws in the area of national defence — the National Defence Act and LOBOFA ( Organic Law of the Foundations of the Organization of Armed Forces. ) For the approval and promulgation of the CDS, the contribution of the CDS was decisive, as it was the amendments that we introduced that improved the two highly criticised initial proposals, including by the overwhelming majority of the former heads of the Greater State. In the note published by Mr. President of the Republic, at the time of promulgation, the work of the CDS is recognized, when it is said that the final version has attenuated one or another more controversial facet. Mr. Prime Minister, the CDS, as an institutionalist party and a defender of the stability and credibility of the Armed Forces, will do everything, as you did, for your defense. in this sense, the first note I make is critical of the government's alleged exoneration of the current CEMA ( Chief of the Army Staff) and of the appointment of Vice Admiral Gouveia and Melo to their place, where no one was winning, and in fact, everyone was lost. The stability of the Armed Forces, Prime Minister, was affected. The current CEMA was disregarded and Vice Admiral Gouveia and Melo, a personality indispensable for the success of the vaccination plan, was placed in a situation that neither deserved nor could. from there, Prime Minister, the first questions I ask you is whether this lamentable episode does not compromise or condition the full implementation of the new National Defence Act and LOBOFA by the head of the ramos and whether the present Ramos leaders are all in tune for the execution of the same reforms, which are urgent and fundamental for the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u122	You have the floor, then, to answer, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u123	Mr President, Mr President, as Mr President of the Republic, in his supreme authority, has already clarified, there have indeed been some misconceptions, which are fortunately all healed. As for your question about the full loyalty of military leaders to democratic legality and the decisions taken by the Assembly of the Republic, I have no doubt in answering it. I do not think otherwise, nor do I have the slightest doubt that any of the military leaders will give effect to the legislation adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u124	Mr Pedro Morais Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u125	Mr President, Prime Minister, the problem of the Armed Forces is not just this situation I have highlighted, but goes far beyond that. So the second question I want to ask you has to do with the number of effectives, the various constraints that the Armed Forces may have, the low number of effectives, which is undoubtedly the worst. There are no armed forces without the military. In recent years, the Armed Forces have worked with an effective far below the one that is planned. in a context where there is a significant increase in missions by the Armed Forces, as seen also in the fight against COVID, in the civil support and protection missions to the populations, but also in the various missions they have, the effective is far below what is necessary, and something is in fact failing: or the missions are poorly met, which is not the case, or the actual is overloaded, because it is not possible to do more missions with less human resources. The decrease in the number of military personnel, Prime Minister, is alarming. On 31 December 2015 there were 29 200 military personnel ; on 31 December 2020 there were 26 200. That is, since the PS governs and you are prime minister, there has been a decrease of 3000 military, that is, 10%. In July 2019, the current Chief of the General Staff considered the situation unsustainable when he said that « we do not have the 32 000 effectives that we should have, we only have 26 000, and those we have often have to repeat the missions. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, the Armed Forces need urgent action to enhance and revitalize the attractiveness of the military career. from that point on, it is appropriate to clarify and therefore I ask the Prime Minister what concrete and real measures will be to deal with this low recruitment rate and high dropout rate and how it will maintain missions with the number to round the 26,000 military. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u126	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u127	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, this past year, the number of effective people has, fortunately, been rising. Secondly, the Armed Forces have been able to perform, in a remarkable way, their missions within the framework of international commitments — with the United Nations, NATO and the European Union — and our outstanding national forces have been exemplary in the way they have carried out their mission, even under the most difficult conditions. Just to give the latest example, I highlight the extraordinary way in which our Forces returned to the ground to support the evacuation and coming to Portugal of as many Afghans as possible who collaborated with us over the 20 years during our mission in Afghanistan. Secondly, the Portuguese Armed Forces have also stood out in recent years because of their very active participation in public-interest missions. This was the case in the fight against forest fires, so it was in the recovery of the territories affected by forest fires and so it was in particular in the face of the crisis of the COVID-19. The set of measures planned to create better incentives for the recruitment of military personnel for the armed forces frameworks has come to correspond, and we hope to gradually recover the deficit of assets we have in our armed forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u128	To continue your questions to Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Pedro Morais Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u129	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the constraints that have been encountered with regard to the operationalization and the lack of planning of the ships of the Navy between 2010 and 2020, the navigation hours of the Portuguese Navy have been reduced to two thirds, from 40,000 hours to 27 000 hours. of the five frigates that the Navy has, until August of this year, we only have one operational, and since then we have two, one of them now on mission, and well, in the Baltic Sea, under our participation in NATO. Two frigates are outside Portugal, in maintenance, and the other, Vasco da Gama, has been successively dismantled to provide parts to other ships. Since 2010, the days of the Navy mission have fallen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u130	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u131	I will finish now, Mr President. This drop in operationalization will remain-CL as long as our frigates remain stopped on yards. It is therefore important to ask what measures the Government intends to take, in particular at the budgetary level, but not only to reverse the decline in the marine media and what it plans to do between 2021 and 2023, that is, until the end of its mandate, in order to speed up the operation of the existing marine media. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u132	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u133	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, regarding the two frigates being maintained, one returns by the end of this month and the other by July of next year. I also recall that in May 2021, the Council of Ministers approved under the Military Programming Act an investment of EUR 352 million for the acquisition of new six ocean patrol vessels of the Viana do Castelo class, which is now under way. Therefore, the investment in the Navy will continue. And the Navy has not stopped fully carrying out its missions, taking into account all the constraints it has at the moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u134	It is the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, to put questions to Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, we are a few days from the delivery of the State budget to 2022. The pre-budgetary political debate always requires debate on the budgetary implementation of the current year and, when discussing the current budget implementation, we must remember the speeches of those who voted against the State budget for 2021. Mr. Prime Minister did well to recover part of Dr. Rui Rio's speech a year ago in this House, where he made a catastrophic speech, announcing chaos on all fronts. I will continue to remember Dr. Rui Rio's speech a year ago. One year ago Dr. Rui Rio said: "A budget that does not fight unemployment! ; « The increase in national minimum wage is demagogy! ; « The increase in national minimum wage increases unemployment! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Let us look at the latest labour market data: the unemployment rate has fallen to lower levels than expected in the 2021 budget itself and employment has risen above the maximum expected for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dr. Rui Rio was denied by reality. Let's also remember other words, other ads, other Dr. Rui Rio forecasts :« Budget with overestimated recipes! ; « Pre-announces a corrective budget! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” There was no rectification budget, no overestimated revenue. Again, Dr. Rui Rio was denied by reality. Dr. Rui Rio said a year ago: "We have a National Health Service with serious failures in its response capacity and with greater difficulty in responding to the pandemic! Do not keep on seeking. ” The National Health Service gave a thorough response to the greatest public health crisis and was fundamental in the vaccination process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Pandemic control has been achieved through the successful vaccination process and the control of the pandemic has been the key spring for the economic recovery of 2021. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u136	Much of this was due to the record budget allocation that was entered in the State Budget for 2021 for the National Health Service. And what did the PSD do? Oh, my God! He voted against. Dr. Rui Rio also said that the 2021 Budget lowered public investment. According to recent data, at the end of the first half, public investment increased by 30 % above the best government forecasts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Again, Dr. Rui Rio was denied. He also said, as a « hat» of his intervention, that the State budget for 2021 gave everything to everyone, such as those who say « it is necessary to cut public expenditure». He did not have the courage to say which part of the expenditure he cut: if it was in investment, if it was in social expenditure, if it was in support of companies. Not having the courage to say that, already the version « Rui Rio 2021 », at the time of the Stability Programme, came to defend more public spending, contrary to its maximum to vote against the State budget for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The conclusion that we have reached, Prime Minister, is that the State budget for 2021 has indeed been a budget to combat the greatest economic crisis in recent decades, which has resulted from a major public health crisis. Those who complain that economic growth for 2021 could have been greater are those who olympically ignore the great confinement that the country lived in the first quarter. It was not that great confinement, perhaps we would have had economic growth above the best forecasts this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The devil did not come in 2021, according to Dr. Rui Rio and PSD. The forecast of economic growth for 2021 and 2022 exceeds 10 % of GDP, which means that it is greater than the fall in GDP in 2020, which in turn means that Portugal will return to convergence with the European Union in 2021. In comparison with other countries, with economic growth in other economic blocs in the European Union, it should be recalled that in the last 30 years, the PSD has ruled for 10 years. in these 10 years of governance of the PSD and the CDS, there was only one year in which Portugal converged with the European Union. In the years of governance of the Socialist Party, Portugal converged in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, will converge in 2021 and converge in 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are obviously talking about economic growth for the year 2022, which means that there is progress to be made, which we assume we want to make with our preferred parliamentary partners: the Left Block, the CFP, the ENP, the NAP, the non-registered Members. This must obviously have gained: more public investment, more private investment, extraordinary support for businesses, which are fundamental to economic growth, more income available to families, whether by budget, whether through tax, strengthening the available income of middle classes, families with children and younger generations. I ask you, Prime Minister, whether this is the way forward in the State budget for 2022. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u137	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u138	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, indeed, it was because we followed the policy that we followed, because we continued a strategy to respond to the crisis with solidarity rather than with the austerity that Dr. Rui Rio's forecasts have not been confirmed. [[PSD member Rui Rio's laughter.]] It is that Dr. Rui Rio's predictions were conditioned by what he himself would do if he were to rule. If it had effectively applied the traditional prescription that PSD has to face the crises, there is no doubt that the crisis would even have had the catastrophic nature that Dr. Rui Rio diagnosed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD member Rui Rio's laughter.]] In fact, I will show you a chart on the evolution of unemployment that well demonstrates the right response and our response to crises. In 2013 unemployment was 18, 2 %. in this crisis, in which we had the biggest fall in the product that ever existed, as Dr. Rui Rio said recently... [[PSD laughter.]] ... the INE has also been downgrading the product fall in 2020. In other words, the fall in wealth production has been even greater, the economy has sank further, and however, they also see that unemployment has not reached the catastrophic dimension of 18, 2 %, never exceeding 8 % and is now 6, 4 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This measure of governance that we have is better than we would have with the governance of Dr. Rui Rio. We have to go on. during this year, the increase in public investment was very significant. As I have already had the opportunity to remember, the increase in private investment, of business investment in the first quarter of this year has set a new historic peak. In Portugal, during 2021, we had a very significant growth in our investment, 30, 9 % of the increase in public investment. Moreover, the European Commission foresees that in 2022 Portugal will be the country of the European Union with the greatest increase in public investment: 35 % at current prices over the coming year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the next Budget must be a friend of investment, it must continue to strengthen public services, which are fundamental to providing quality services to the Portuguese population, and it must continue to pursue the path of improved family income, with special attention to the middle classes and to the new generations, to whom we must now give increased attention, without forgetting the elderly, who we continue to have as priorities, and the fight against poverty, in particular to child poverty, which must be essential. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But among these priorities of combating child poverty and protecting our elderly, we must not forget that this is the time to look carefully at the middle classes and also for the new generations. That is the vision and the broad lines of the one who will be the State Budget for next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u139	The Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party continues to speak this time through Mr Filipe Pacheco. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, over the past few months it has been possible to recover the country and return to a path through which it was possible to re-plan and guarantee the future. Allow me, Mr Prime Minister, to highlight the particularly severe way in which the pandemic has affected youth, exacerbating structural problems that the new generations have already faced. Mr Prime Minister has already said that the new generations must be a bet, but the fact is that — it is important to remember — during the pandemic, young unemployment grew four times more than the national average and many of these jobs were precarious. Although the number of people employed in Portugal today has already returned to the pre-pandamia level thanks to the support measures launched by the government, the truth is that we still have about 210 000 young NEET (not in employment, educator training), who are not studying, neither employees, nor in training, those who already faced low wages, high incomes and who also saw their mental health affected during the pandemic. But because we live times when it is important to remember the obvious, it is important to remember that it was fundamental to the page turn of austerity in 2016, which allowed a better starting point to face the emergence of the pandemic, which added a different view of combating crises. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister has already referred to the view of solidarity, because this time there were no wage cuts or « generation to scratch ». They didn't sell us the recipe that we need to impoverish to then get out of the crisis. Mr Prime Minister did not call us « folds», he did not impose austerity on us, we did not have to emigrate, nor were we invited to do so. On the contrary! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, at the same time that the country has recovered, it has not ceased to guarantee the future of young people, of those who study those who are at the beginning of their career, who begin to emancipate and build families. Today, we have the Regressar Programme, which supports the creation of businesses and the employment of migrants themselves and which only in approved applications has reached more than 5000 people, most of which are young and qualified migrants. Today, young people benefit from IRS Young, and already here has been announced the passage from three to five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we have a country where young people increasingly value and go to higher education, with fewer tips, contrary to what the PSD wanted, with automatically augmented and renewed scholarships, with single and cheaper passes. Today, with the greatest conjuncural crisis of all time, we have not stopped responding to the structural challenges of qualifications, innovation, digital transition, with more vocational training and requalification, such as the UPSkill programme, which brings together politicians, companies and the state to train professionals in the programming area with guarantee of posterior and total employability.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u141	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u142	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, we have a country that supports young families, strengthening preschool and ensuring that day care is free for families according to the step. Today, we have a country that will continue to walk in labour protection. Mr Prime Minister, this is the way we must continue and deepen in our country and, if the PRR or the bazouca have to be a booster to reconverge with the European Union, this forthcoming State budget may and must already have some firepower. Mr Prime Minister — and I will finish, Mr President — I would therefore ask you what this budget can do in a concrete way to improve conditions for young Portuguese people so that we can continue the path made so far in the fields of employment, housing and young emancipation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u143	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u144	Mr President, Mr Filipe Pacheco, we talk a lot about the Community funds, we talk a lot about the bazaars, the PRR, but the real great strategic resource that the country has today and that previously did not have today is even having the most qualified generation ever in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is an absolutely crucial resource for our investment not to be more of the same, for our companies to do no more of the same, but, on the contrary, they can do better, they can do different things and we can have a more internationalized economy based on goods and services of greater added value. For this, the first priority must continue to be education, education, education. And so we are working towards the goal that we have proposed with the European Union to reduce early school dropout to a maximum of 10 % by 2020 and we are happy to be able to overcome this goal and to reduce early school dropout to 8 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Should we fulfill our mission? No, no, no. We must pursue the same course. Despite this crisis, for two consecutive years we have increased the number of students in higher education and have continued to increase the number of students in higher education. For this, the democratization of access to higher education was decisive. When we entered office there were 40 localities in the country with higher education offer; today there are 134 localities in the country with higher education offer. And one of the commitments we have already made — and which will be translated into the next State budget — is that social action at school should not be limited to 1. the cycle of higher education studies and should begin to extend to 2. the cycle of higher education studies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The same applies to the fundamental conditions for entry into active life. And if we want to address the demographic deficit and, at the same time, ensure that the country does not waste this generation, we must tackle the two greatest causes of insecurity for new generations: firstly, the difficulty of access to accessible housing—and therefore the priority given to the new generation of housing policies; secondly, a determined struggle for all forms of precarious work and informality that do not allow young people to face the future with tranquility, hope and confidence in the development of their professional career.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u145	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u146	I will now finish, Mr President. For this result, not only is the set of measures that the State has taken on the development of public transport, important transfers such as the development of the day care network, but it is also absolutely essential that we achieve, in the context of social consultation, the agreement that we were negotiating before the pandemic, and which has now been suspended, in relation to a general increase in wages and, in particular, the value of wages for young generations and for the most qualified young people. It is absolutely crucial that companies should not waste a fundamental resource to improve their own productivity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u147	We now move on to the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Filipa Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister has been promising 26 000 homes that he has not made for years. It's a fact you didn't! He put them in the bazauca and went, in this year's campaign, to sign protocols for more than 30,000 homes. So there is a hole here between the 26 000 and the more than 30 000 whose size we like to know. How much is this gonna cost us? How much are we gonna pay for this? And who's gonna keep the debt? Is it going to fall on top of the municipalities? In addition, there is another problem, Mr. Prime Minister: the cost of construction, as Mr. Prime Minister knows, rose for the effects of the pandemic. So I ask you: these contracts that Mr. Prime Minister is making are at the actual cost or are with that of the report of 1. The law, which speaks in 794 €/ m2? It is that, otherwise, we have a double spill: first, because it is promising what has no more fires and then because it is saying that it is less than what will actually cost. Today, even Mr. João Oliveira told the newspaper that this housing can be a political fraud! This is what your PCP colleagues are saying, who are supporting the government, so imagine our perplexity with this! Mr. Prime Minister, you're promising what you don't have, you're compromising what we don't, without national housing program,... [[You'll have it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u149	...without criteria and without fairness. You're giving whoever you get to first. The water will stay close to the spring. Mr. Prime Minister, we deserved a lot more. We already realize that you didn't realize anything about what happened at the time of the troika. [[PS laughter.]] They did not realize that because of the last Socialist public works programme, we have a former Prime Minister in court to respond by alleged bribes from a builder. I know you didn't understand any of this, but we did. And as long as you promise what you don't have, the empty state heritage has been ruining for years. This was the first step, Prime Minister. Portugal deserves and will have better than this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u150	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u151	Mr President, Mrs Filipa Roseta, I am glad that you have understood everything. [[PS laughter.]] Having you realized everything, it's much more serious, because you omitted what you realized. The first thing that Mrs Deputy surely realized: when this government began its duties in 2015 there was no PRR...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u152	But there was the National Building Rehabilitation Fund!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u153	... and this government decided to launch the development of a National Habitat Strategy to support a new generation of housing policies. It was also consolidated here, by the approval of the first Housing Base Law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u154	Don't let the gentlemen do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u155	... which gave a translation to Article 65. the Constitution and the guarantee of programme 1. Right to all and to all Portuguese. When the National Habitat Strategy was presented we were still in an embryonic phase, it was basically still a working group developed then in the Ministry of the Environment, and that was not yet of Climate Action. And, indeed, we assumed an objective, which was to celebrate the 50 years of April 25 in 2024, ensuring housing for the 26 000 families that had then been identified in the national survey conducted to all municipalities that did not reside in condigna dwellings. And the goal we set was to ensure, until April 25, 2024, housing is commensurate with these 26,000 families. That is how we made the commitment, and that is how we have been working to meet that commitment. I must tell you that the agreements that were established with the municipalities began to be established long before the Recovery and Resilience Plan existed. When it came out, unsuspectingly—because I assure you that, when we made this commitment, we did not suspect that there would be COVID, we did not suspect that there would be a Recovery and Resilience Plan—the Recovery and Resilience Plan, we found one obvious thing: that we had an absolutely extraordinary opportunity, since the European Union had identified as a fundamental factor of country resilience a solid housing policy. And Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union which has a lower rate of public housing supply and does not have any public housing offer for the middle classes and for the new generations, because the only thing that he did in the 1990s was to eradicate the barracks through social housing, and the municipalities are still paying the debt that the government of then hired them for the eradication of the barracks — what you will quickly notice now, when you take possession as a councilman of the chambers that still has one of the heavier bills to pay for the eradication of 23,000 barracks that existed in the city of Lisbon and which, fortunately, were eradicated in the time of President João Soares. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, what the Recovery and Resilience Plan provides us is €2,750 000, which we do not have before, to allow us to extend and accelerate the new generation of housing policies, a part destined for 1. the right, another part for the promotion of affordable lease. Therefore we already had this commitment without PRR, now with PRR we will fulfil this commitment with greater confidence, not only with the constant money of the PRR, as with additional money that we obviously have to inject, as we had planned to invest before the existence of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am only sorry, Mrs Deputies, that, having understood this all that I have now explained to you, you have not had the kindness of saving me to explain what you already knew. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u156	The next question from the PSD Parliamentary Group is Mr André Coelho Lima. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, even though Mr. José Luís Carneiro has already left because he has drawn conclusions in the middle of the game, I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister about the road show he has been doing PRR for the country, which also passed through the Braga district. So — I have to help myself from the cabbage — in Celorico de Basto said that « the municipalities will have, from April...» — from April! — «... plus 1000 million to monitor the transfer of competences». In Family, and I am always quoting, he said: « When we had to negotiate the PRR we beat and won to solve the structural problem». He said this, referring to the intention to capture the necessary funds to build the bridge over the Ave River and have the 14 National Road. In Celorico de Basto and Head of Basto, he announced another road: « Let's link the variant of the Thamega, connecting Celorico from Basto to Arc de Baulhe, and that is why the PRR already provides the necessary money ». In Barcelos, António Costa stated that « due to the government's efforts with Brussels we will do what was needed, the total intervention on the National Highway No 14 ». And the pearl is when he says, in Braga, using this instrument — and I quote: "In order for this plan to succeed we cannot have the municipalities delivered to whom every day appears on television fighting the PRR". Mr Prime Minister, first of all, I wanted to say that it was wrong for him, because in all these municipalities he lost the elections. Secondly, I would like to ask you two very simple questions. First, I wanted to know whether Prime Minister Antonio Costa is in a position to guarantee these populations that will honour the word of the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, Antonio Costa, and with this motivation and deadlines. [[PSD applause.]] Secondly, I would like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, if you do not consider that with this action, in the end, an authentic circumforan, disqualify, with all honesty, its function and disqualify the PRR, which is a fundamental instrument for the country in its future, which is a cross-cutting instrument to all these benches and which is an instrument that will not be executed by your Government alone. With all the frontality, I tell you that it seems to me that, with this wedding to the voters and with this attempt to bypass the vote of the elector, Mr. Prime Minister has despised democracy and democratic institutions. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u158	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u159	Mr President, Mr Coelho Lima, I would like to say the following: what disqualifies democracy is that a Member who sits at the front of his bench has such a level of ignorance about what is the Recovery and Resilence Plan and what are the commitments already included in the law on the transfer of competences to municipalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u160	You don't know me at all, so I don't authorize you to make any moral judgment about my behavior,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u161	...as I don't do about yours. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The first thing you had to know before you opened your mouth here in the Assembly of the Republic,... [[Oh!...]] [[Protests of the PSD, having beaten with the hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u162	... is that, in April, a law passed in this House on the transfer of competences to municipalities comes into force. And, as it is contractual with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and is registered in the law, this transfer of competence is accompanied by their respective funds. And that is the EUR 1 billion. It is not a promise, it is what is inscribed in the law, and the law is to be fulfilled! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member should also have worked to read the Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is that the National Road No 14, the link of Celorico from Basto to A7, all these roads are not electoral promises, are contractualized, discriminated, calendarled with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And you know what's serious, sir? It is because, as you do not know, as your party does not know, if this government ceases to be government, the Recovery and Resilience Plan was even to be executed, because you are inept to execute what you do not know. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u163	Also for the PSD, I now give the floor to Mr Paulo Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, on the history of promises sessions you made by the country on campaign for the elections,... [[Oh!...]] ... he left, once again — I repeat, once again — in the shoe, in Coimbra,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u165	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate can be alive, it must be alive, but we must be able to listen, so I would ask that the conditions for Mr Paul Leitão to be able to intervene. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. As Mr Prime Minister once again said, « he left in his shoe» in Coimbra the promise of the construction of the new motherhood, as has already been mentioned here today. [[Again?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u167	I recall that the construction process of the new motherhood began in 2014, by the hand of the then Minister of Health, Paulo Macedo. In the years that followed, we were only provided with promises, working groups and indecisions regarding their location. I also remind you, Prime Minister, that the promise of maternity is not new. Already in 2016, former Minister Adalberto Campos Fernandes had announced, including, a timetable for its construction. Given today's commitment to its implementation, there are some major doubts. Realizing also that the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party did not say in Coimbra what would be the future location of the maternity so as not to spoil the campaign of his candidate, I ask the Prime Minister what will be the expected date for his implementation and strengthening the question about what his location will be, since, as he said, the location is chosen and the tacticalism of his announcement only serves, in my view, to share the responsibilities with the Coimbra City Council. To finish, and if the option is to implement maternity at the perimeter of the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra, I ask what measures the Government has planned to halt the loss of valences of the Hospital dos Covões. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u168	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau again calls on us to hear the questions and the answers. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u169	Mr. President, Mr. Paulo Leitão, the location is chosen and should be properly discussed with the City Council of Coimbra. And, as we did with the previous municipal chamber, we must do with the new municipal chamber. We could simply open the contest immediately. But I think we have done what is right in a process of democratic transition. The President of the Board of Directors of the Hospital and University Centre in Coimbra has already had the opportunity to meet with the president of the elected chamber, to give him all the information and to hear his opinion, having been asked, which we think is reasonable, to wait for his taking possession so that he can formally pronounce himself. That is what we are going to do: wait for the new President of the Coimbra Municipal Chamber to take possession, hear his formal opinion and then take the final decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u170	The PSD Parliamentary Group is still speaking, this is done through Mr Cristovão Norte. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u171	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister recently wondered why the House, in particular the opposition, did not question him about the commitments he had signed in this country. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u172	I'm afraid--do it. But I will tell you, on behalf of the Algarve, the reason why the algarves do not ask this question: purely and simply because they do not believe in you, Mr. Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, in 2015 in the election campaign, promised to reduce tolls by 50 %. Upon arrival in 2021, the PSD submitted this proposal, which was approved in the Assembly of the Republic. Only that the measure was torpedoed by the government, which even threatened to appeal to the Constitutional Court to prevent its entry into force. In 2017, it took over the requalification of EN125 between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António. It's not done and all the deadlines have been exceeded. In 2019, in the election campaign, he said that the Algarve would have a new central hospital in the Algarve, that the Algarve would be the second one at the national level. Now, the Socialist Party's government decided to set up five hospitals and the region that fewer hospital services have in the country was once again left behind. And last year, at the outbreak of the economic and social crisis, of the cataclysm that swept away the Algarve from the sides, resulting in a dominance of bankruptcy and unemployment, his Minister for the Economy and Mr Prime Minister said that the Algarve would benefit from a specific emergency programme to diversify the economy and at that time respond to the needs of the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u173	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u174	So far, no measures are known, no financial envelopes. Therefore, when Mr. Prime Minister comes to say that the Algarve will have more than 300 million euros in the next Community Support Framework, as will all regions in these circumstances, it is natural that with all due respect « no one passes his card ». [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u175	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u176	Mr President, this is not exactly an answer since there was no question. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] But to give Mr Cristovão Norte time to return to the land of peace, I will take advantage of the occasion and give two small clarifications. First clarification: as is known, the Algarve region, as the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley have ceased to be convergence regions, so they are heavily penalized in the Community funds. In negotiating the next multiannual financial framework, and paying attention to the particular crisis in the tourism sector, it was possible to obtain an extraordinary allocation of EUR 300 million, which are included in the Algarve Regional Operational Programme and which are intended to diversify its economy. Ask the honourable Member where the money is. It's in the Algarve Regional Operational Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which you hate so much, more than 300 million euros are planned to improve the water efficiency of the Algarve, namely an investment in a desalination to ensure that the region of the country most threatened by drought can have water for human supply but also to support the diversification of its agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u177	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u178	I shall conclude, Mr President. So where's the money? One is in the PRR and the other is in the Algarve Regional Operational Programme. One final note, to conclude, Mr. If you want to know who the crows believe in, go see the electoral result of the autarchic elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u179	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember my repeated appeal. And I'll do it again. VV. Ex. They'll make you understand. Mrs. Catarina Martins, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u180	Mr President, Prime Minister, we had a moment here when the right held a sort of post-election debate with the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party. If I may, I will make the parliamentary debate with Mr Prime Minister, which is why we are here. [[PSD protests.]] We were just saying that we need courage to face the country's problems. You know, the courage to face the problems that we will surely still have — at a time that is still difficult, yes, and we do not know the pandemic — is the courage to face structural inequalities, so that we do not allow mechanisms that were created by the right in the time of the troika, in the time of a crisis, to be used now to make this crisis also a form of wage compression. I spoke to him recently about pensions, and I continue to say that the end of the sustainability factor, of that cut that was created in the time of the troika, with which we have already ended up in so many situations, should end up in all situations and we should recalculate the pensions of pensioners who have been damaged. But I wanted to talk to you about wages now. In Portugal we have generations of workers who feel unjust because they see that they are gaining objectively less than they have gained 20 years ago, due to years of freezing careers, without wage progression. And we don't need to be talking about the public service, we're talking about all the workers, because the change in labour laws made objective pressure to lower wages. In fact, after decades of freezing, the younger generations—and recently, I said, and rightly, that there has to be a budget that thinks about younger generations—, poor but qualified generations look at the labour market and what they look forward to is the minimum wage or little more. And the average wage in Portugal is dangerously approaching the minimum wage. It is true that we need to increase the minimum wage because it is still a condition of poverty, and those who work cannot be in poverty. But it is necessary to take account of the other salaries and not allow this wage compression mechanism, which exists, while companies are using troika laws to continue this process. I will give you this very concrete example: this week, I have been with Altice workers who are contesting your dismissal. They are workers who, in some cases, earn 740 € monthly. In addition, these workers had already had a process against the Altice to be effective, because they were illegally precarious, the process that they won, having remained in the company's frameworks to earn 740 €. It happens that, now, they were fired to be replaced by workers in outsourcing to earn 665 €. What Altice does is to use the work laws that protect this mechanism, replacing workers with workers who gain even less. And do it in two ways: on the one hand, because you know that workers who accept redundancies cannot contest dismissal—and many workers in the face of unemployment, with houses to pay and with children, have no other remedy but to accept compensation at that time, but then cannot go to court. In Parliament we could have corrected this injustice and the Socialist Party did not want to. It was a mistake and that is why, of the 250 illegally fired at the Altice, there are 30 workers who keep going to the courts, because the others had no alternative but to keep the compensation. But all this process is possible because it is very cheap and very easy to fire in Portugal. The Altice, in fact, sent a letter to all the employees of the company to warn that the restructuring was just beginning, so everyone could know — I repeat, that everyone would know — that the Altice compensates to fire and create illegitimate outsourcings, with lower wages. One of the reasons why he compensates for dismissal is because dismissal compensation, which was 30 days per year of work, became 12 days per year of work during the time of the troika. This happens in companies like Altice, but not only because it is happening in Santander too, where workers are being replaced by others who will enter outsourcing to earn less. It is not just the bank to shrink, it is even the replacement of frame workers by outsourcing workers who earn less. I'll say again, you'll get less! It is wage compression, which, in fact, the committees of workers have come to denounce. The question I leave to you, Prime Minister, is the following: why does the Socialist Party not agree to change the law? Well, I know we don't have exactly the same position. The position of the Left Block is simple: the dismissal compensation must be back to 30 days for each year of work as it was before the troika. The Socialist Party voted against this compensation for 12 days. At the time he defended that it was 20 days. Is it now available for redundancies to become 20 days per year of work so as not to make life easier for companies that are objectively pressuring low wages in Portugal? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u181	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u182	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, yes, it takes courage to face the problems of the country today, as it was a year ago, as it was since the beginning of this crisis, as it was necessary courage to turn the page of austerity in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The average wage in Portugal has been rising steadily since 2017. We must continue to work so that we can continue, because we cannot be a country of low wages, nor can we compete again at the expense of low wages. This implies, in particular, a set of measures that we have now taken to encourage collective bargaining, to speed up the extension doors and to strengthen social dialogue between the different partners. at this moment, precisely, the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration is in negotiations with the union structures of civil servants to discuss the wage developments of next year. We have strongly pressured the social partners to have an active culture of social dialogue, collective bargaining and social dialogue. That is absolutely crucial for this to happen. Within the framework of the Dignified Work Agenda, which we are discussing in social dialogue, there are a number of priorities that we have stated: the need to combat the abuse of temporary work; the need to strengthen the fight against false independent work; the disincentive of unfair recourse to non-permanent work; the prevention of abuse of the experimental period; the strengthening of the fight against undeclared work; the strengthening of the rights of those who work through digital platforms; the regulation of telework and the strengthening of collective bargaining. Strengthening collective bargaining is a key element for the overall improvement of wages, in a just way. Therefore, we have consistently and systematically maintained a policy for the valuation of the national minimum wage and this has necessarily pressured not only in the Public Administration but also in the private sector, the improvement of the average wage. This is a way to continue to combat not only labour poverty but also to achieve the overall improvement of wages. at this time, where the set of measures adopted in the last State budget to support employment was a huge success, avoiding the disaster of 18 % unemployment, today being unemployment falling, but today having, in almost all sectors of activity, a huge shortage of human resources, this will necessarily have the effect of companies, in order to resume their activity, have to improve their wage supply. There are many companies, there are many sectors that will not have human resources available if they continue to pay what they have paid, so they will even have to pay more if they want to have a future. It is this collective effort that we have to make and in which we have been betted. The Dignified Work Agenda is truly the key to this. Today, the central problem is not dismissal, the central problem is job creation, the improvement of decent employment, employment with rights, employment with fair wages and the general improvement of having a higher wage level, particularly for new generations, who feel enormous frustration, since, after a huge personal investment in their training, the enormous effort of their family in their training, they find in the labour market a pay offer that is incompatible with the fair aspirations of each of these young people. We have to look at these young people and we have to respond to these needs. That's where we're focused and focused and that's where we'll have to keep working. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u183	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u184	Mr President, Prime Minister, dismissals are a problem, yes. When a worker at Altice is fired, another worker entering with lower wages, Mr. Prime Minister will tell me that there is no problem, because it has not increased unemployment. But what I'm telling you is that there's a job that started to have a lower salary and that the economy is pulling down. Mr. Prime Minister said, about Galp, that it was a school example of everything that should not be done. The dismissals at the Altice are on October 30 and is an example of a school of everything that must not be done that the government closes its eyes to replacing workers in the picture by workers in outsourcing, in a maneuver that is illegal and that is a sign for the entire economy of a disqualification of workers that the government could not ignore. Mr Prime Minister, I must say to you, in fact, that you told the ILO (International Labour Organisation) at the beginning of the crisis that it had been a mistake, when the economy was good, to have no stronger rules at work. But now it's surprising that you're here saying that when the economy was shrinking, you couldn't move in the rules of work and now, if you want it to grow, you can't move in the rules of work either. Well, one day you have to move in those rules or, then, we condemn the country to always be a low-wage country. Mr. Prime Minister, very briefly, I wanted to talk to you about the issue of offshore: successive scandals, Pandora Papers, after Lux Leaks and Panama Papers. We all realize that offshores serve three things: to hide money, as in the case of Manuel Pinho, to escape the law, as in the case of Morais Sarmento, for example, and even to flee the country, as in the case of João Rendeiro. It's no use for anything that serves the country or the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u186	What we also know is that companies that use offshore can, in fact, continue to rely on public support mechanisms. We now have, for example, the case that was reported by Vasco Pereira Coutinho, who bought a millionaire yacht in an offshore while having the company in a special revitalization program.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u187	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u188	That has to shock us. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is if you are not willing to exclude from all public support, including from the Recovery and Resilience Plan, all companies that have any connection to an offshore. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u189	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u190	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, the Dignified Work Agenda in paragraph 18 expressly states « prohibition of the use of outsourcing in undertakings which have been the subject of collective dismissal ». Therefore, this is a clearly stated measure in the Dignified Work Agenda. When the honourable Member says we're not going to move into the rules of work, I have to tell her we're going. There are 67 rules that are contained in the Dignified Work Agenda. Please do not turn the Dignified Work Agenda, to the Left Block, to the right! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's good to read, study. It's good to see what's there. Finally, I recently had the opportunity to recall that, on a proposal from the ENP, in the last State budget, first the taxation in IMT and IMI on the purchase of buildings from offshore entities was aggravated. Secondly, all forms of support have been prohibited, whatever they are, for entities that are located in offshore. However, we cannot confuse a special business revitalization plan with public support. The special business recovery plan is not a public support, it is a way of intervening to avoid bankruptcy of a company, protecting jobs and assets necessary to pay creditors and to save, preferably, the assets. It has no direct intervention by the State, it has no financing whatsoever and is, in fact, conducted by judicial means. That's what's happening, so let's not confuse one thing with another. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u191	To put questions, Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u192	Mr President, Prime Minister, no one is unaware of the persistence that the CFP has had in the fight to defend pensioners and workers in access to their reform. Our initiatives over the years are known, whether in relation to the increases in pensions, whether in relation to the appreciation of long-term contributions careers, whether in relation to the end of cuts in the sustainability factor and the requirement to recalculate the pensions that these cuts had, whether in relation to the defence of the right to reform without penalties at the end of 40 years of discounts. One of the struggles that we fought in the Assembly of the Republic for almost 20 years was precisely that of the access of the workers of the prairie to an early reform regime that already existed for the miners and, after 20 years to fight, we effectively achieved that right to be recognized and, until the government assumed the commitment to eliminate the cuts that had been applied to the reforms of these workers through the application of the sustainability factor. The Government was committed to regulating this decision until October 2019. He didn't. It only came to do so later, recognizing only the calculation of pensions from 1 January 2020 and only for those who had retired after 2019. I have here a list, Mr Prime Minister, which I am asking you to give before the end of the debate, of 70 stone workers, with the identification number of social security and everything for the processes to be effectively verified. There are 70 workers of the stone prairies who should have their pensions recalculated since January 2020 and who continue to wait and diglade with the government so that this right can be effectively implemented, including complaints made to the Ombudsman. The question I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, is very simple: what is the answer the Government has to give to these 70 workers? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u193	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u194	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, for the time being, I would be grateful if I could get the list to ask, through the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, information to the services on what is happening to these 70 workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u195	You have the floor again, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u196	Mr President, Prime Minister, the little effusive way in which the PS applauded this response I think it is sufficient to underline the concern we are having because, indeed, it is an undertaking taken, set out in the State Budget Act of 2019, regulated by 2020 and we are in October 2021 and there are at least 70 workers—there must be more, but these were the ones who addressed us—in this situation, because indeed that answer has not been ensured. I wanted to return to another issue that has been mentioned recently, which has to do with the situation that is in Setúbal hospital and which, of course, is the reflection of many other difficulties that are being experienced in the National Health Service. I would like, above all, to stress one aspect, since these difficulties continue to be the result of the assault that economic groups continue to seek to do to the National Health Service, seeking essentially to achieve what is truly neurological: their professionals. Part of the situation at the Setúbal hospital is resolved in a simpler way, implementing what was entered in the State budget, including investment in the requalification of the building. I believe that there will be no difficulties in moving this part of the answer forward. Then there is another dimension that no longer concerns only health, but all areas of the Public Administration, on which I wanted to question Mr. Prime Minister. This dimension has to do with the absolutely indispensable, essential and unattainable character of the appreciation of professionals, their wages and their careers. There are no public services that are in a position to respond to the needs of Portuguese if they do not have professionals valued in their working conditions, wages and careers. Mr. Prime Minister, the epidemic and the response that was given to the epidemic demonstrated the essential character of public services, and the appreciation of public administration workers is absolutely unsatisfied. Mr. Prime Minister has just said that companies will not find workers if they continue to pay the same as they pay today. Mr. Prime Minister, 12 years have passed since public administration workers had no wage increases. in these 12 years, they lost 11% of the purchasing power! How is it possible for public services to have the ability to respond to the needs of their users if their professionals are not valued, if their careers have not been defended and reviewed, if their wages are not increased? It is for these answers that we really need other government options, which have so far refused these solutions and that we need to change their options to value public services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u197	The Bureau has the indication that Ms. Minister of Health, Marta Temido, will respond. If so, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u198	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, if there is an example of what has been the service provided by public services in recent years, this example is also in the National Health Service. And the capacity that the National Health Service had to give the response that resulted, deeply, from the investment we made in it and from the investment we made together. Of course, there are many problems to be solved; recognizing that is the first way of dealing with them, and that is what we have done. over recent years it was possible to hire more 29 000 professionals for the National Health Service. This number of 29 000 professionals is, of course, liquid. This is a recurring question in this House, but it is, of course, liquid. For the Setúbal Hospital Center, more than 376 professionals were hired, and 36 of these are doctors. This year, eight more medical professionals were hired. More recently, this week, eight more medical contracts were authorized. They will say: "There is a need to do more! That is why we are here, that is why we want to continue working with you. It is worth saying that there has never been talk, or talk little, of what is going well and many things have been going well in the National Health Service in recent months: vaccination, of which so many doubted, was done by the National Health Service, the recovery of care activity, that no one spoke this afternoon and that is at the levels of 2019, was done by the National Health Service,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the investments, of which we do not speak again, such as the Integrated Paediatric Hospital, at the Hospital de São João, was made by the National Health Service. And we will continue to follow the same path in the Maternity of Coimbra, in the Hospital do Algarve, in hiring more professionals, in improving their working conditions, etc. , because we effectively believe in public services. It is worth saying that all we do are choices and choices cannot be made only in the sense of valuing one of the elements we need. And the heart of the National Health Service, being very important to its professionals, are essentially users, their patients. It is for them that we work, they are our focus and we must have the perception that those who defend the National Health Service must be very careful as fighting for their rights, never questioning what is the balance of professionals who, according to the new Health Bases Act, have additional ethical and ethical obligations to create trust in their users. So, we are here to talk to health professionals, professionals from Setúbal Hospital and those from Leiria Hospital and Hospital da Guarda Hospital and those from Algarve Hospital and find solutions for each of their problems, but we have to have the perception that every choice we make will have a cost, not only the cost associated with these choices, such as the cost of the other choices we no longer make. And it is at this point that we are talking about choices, in which we reflect on choices, that we have to realize very well that we have to realize that believing in the National Health Service is also believing in its sustainability. This year, spending on human resources is increasing by 10 % and we must be fully aware of what this bet is, but also of what it has involved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u199	Mr. Prime Minister wishes to speak in response. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u200	Mr President, since Mr João Oliveira's PCP Member is still going to ask a question, I will use the time I have at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u201	You have the floor, then, to put your question, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u202	Mr President, Madam Minister, record your reply and I stress a fact that has been known for a long time: there is no one who can instrumentalize the professionals of the National Health Service in order to destroy the National Health Service if the problems of the professionals are solved. And I note that, in relation to the question of careers and the question of the value of wages, which I placed, not only about the National Health Service, but also in education, security forces, in justice—we have many other areas where this continues to be an unforgettable truth—this appreciation is the first element of the response to whom seeks to instrumentalize the problems of the National Health Service to attack it, with the aim of destroying it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u203	To conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u204	In conclusion, Mr President, just to leave an element of registration, because I can no longer ask the question with all the elements which it implied, about the truly alarming situation that continues to occur in the CTT (Emails of Portugal), with the degradation of the service, with the dismissal of workers, with the dramas and difficulties that are being created in huge areas of the country, with the lack of response from the Government to what is the continuing requirement of public control of the company to ensure the postal public service. Also in this regard, Mr Prime Minister, in the time remaining, I would like to have the prospect of another option in relation to this answer, in an area which is a truly strategic sector for the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u205	You have, now, yes, the word, to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u206	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, very telegraphically, regarding wage developments in the Public Administration, would say the following : firstly, the fact that there have been increases in national minimum wage every year has had a significant impact on thousands of public servants. Secondly, for the first time since the beginning of the century, at least the principle of defrosting careers, promotions and progressions has been maintained, I believe, for the fifth consecutive year, what had never happened throughout this century.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u208	Thirdly, it is also wrong to say that 12 years ago there has not been a wage update: there has been! There was in 2020, taking into account the 2019 inflation. It is true that there was not in 2021 because the inflation expectations for 2020 were profoundly altered with the COVID-19 and in addition to the lack of resources we even had a negative inflation of 0, 1 % during 2020. Therefore, the principle of annual salary updating has been restored. What's going to happen in 2022? As I said earlier in my reply to Mrs Catarina Martins, there is now another negotiating session between the Minister of Modernization of State and Public Administration and the trade union forces to negotiate next year. Let's see, we hope to reach agreement and that this agreement is good and sustainable, because there is one thing that is very important and that all public administration workers realize well...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u209	Mr. Prime Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u210	Mr. President, I will conclude. He said there is one thing that all public administration officials know well: what they really want is not just an increase for next year, what they really want is not that the career continues to progress or that there are promotions next year. They want there to be sustainability once and for all, as we have achieved that there will be, both in promotions and in progress, both in annual updates and that this will become a rule of normalization of the state's employment relationship with its employees. In relation to TTCs, the answer is for the next time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u211	The Bureau recognises the gesture of responsibility of its own, but we really have to fulfill the times and Mr Prime Minister will certainly find a time for this. You now have the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u212	Mr President, Prime Minister, much has been said about investment in this debate, but one of the most relevant investments for the country in the next decade has not been mentioned. I am speaking precisely of the common agricultural policy, in which more than EUR 10 billion will be invested. The CAP, in the view of the NAP, cannot constitute a factor of inequalities or asymmetries between agricultural producers. What we have seen is that this investment, resulting from the CAP, has mainly benefited intensive and superintensive agriculture, to the detriment of biological agriculture, increasing the areas of our own country dedicated to good practice, the management of agricultural habitats, at the service of ecosystems. In fact, without a CAP that guarantees effective and balanced support for farmers, we will not only be questioning our natural resources — in particular our soils, increasing water shortages — but also the future of Portugal. The country cannot be a hostage to this imbalance, and it is therefore important to know, Prime Minister, how the Government will in fact ensure that we will be effectively heard in the strategic plan of the CAP, but also how we will be informed of the report which resulted from the public consultation. We do not have the Minister of Agriculture here today, but I note that this debate has also disappeared. It is not only that small farmers, who have good practice, who have scientific knowledge, such as non-governmental organizations of the environment — who have complained, but who have not been heard in this process — need to be heard, because ensuring an ecological transition, a fairer common agricultural policy is not the back of those who want to preserve the environment. We have today, Mr President, the Minister for Environment and Climate Action, and these two ministries must be in fact side by side with the commitment that the next CAP is also based on a fairer ecological transition and not just more than that. The funds cannot serve, Mr. Prime Minister, to continue to finance highly polluting activities, activities that continue to exhaust our soils and everything that is our natural heritage. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, when is a fairer CAP and when is the knowledge of this report coming from the public consultation? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u213	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we will have a CAP that is much more concerned about environmental issues than we had in the past. Thus they structure the rules of the CAP itself at Community level, thus ensuring what has been the joint work we have been doing with the Ministry of Agriculture. It is the Ministry of Agriculture that will be able to answer some of the questions that you have asked, i.e. when you know the results of the public consultation, which is the timetable. I have no answer on that part. Now that we have worked together, that the agri-environmental measures will cease to be, once and for all, greenwashing exercises and will become, in fact, exercises to care for habitats, that does not have the slightest doubt, and that support to be given to agriculture will increasingly need to be support that will have to consider what is the relevance that it has to structure the territory, where more important than the discussion between being intensive or not intensive is, in fact, the discussion on the inhibition of monoculture and, therefore, to guarantee a mosaic of landscape also in agricultural territory, because that is the only way — and that should be — we can guarantee the biodiversity that our country needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u215	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u216	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, taking into account, in fact, the Minister for Agriculture's denial of these issues and also the answer of the Minister for the Environment, although I can give you the challenge that, apart from pets, we would very much like the Ministry of Agriculture to go under the scope of the Ministry of the Environment, which would certainly be more present and effective. [[PAN's applause.]] The last question I would like to ask you today is related to the enterprises known as Costa Terra. I will not be able to address this issue in depth, because time does not allow me, but it is currently being designed and built, in the area of Comporta and in the Heritage of Pinheirinho, near the area of Melides, the urbanization Costa Terra. The environmental impact studies that have been carried out now date back to more than a decade and we speak of a protected area, a site of Community interest, in which not only due to the questionable validity of the IAD (declaration of environmental impact) but also to the evolution that has taken place in this area in terms of rising sea level and water scarcity, it is absolutely inconceivable that, nowadays, it continues to allow such a construction.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u217	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u218	I really am concluding, Mr President. What I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, is whether or not the Government is actually going to promote a review and stop this construction which will put in question not only a primary dune, as an ecological area of particular interest. More: building a golf course alongside this luxury venture, in primary dunes, is giving a strong footprint in the environment, contrary to what are the values that we must defend today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u219	You have the floor, again to answer, Mr Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, tourism interventions on the Alentejo Coast are regulated by plans, in particular the Regional Plan for the Planning of the Territory, which inhibits the existence of constructions and new buildings outside the urban perimeters. These are defined. In fact, load capacity has been reduced, and well, since the first plane in the 1960s, it has been reduced to about a fifth, and it is this capacity that exists today. What is currently on the table is the approval of the Coastal Orle Programme. Just because the public consultation fell over the election campaign, the period of this public consultation has been extended, but the proof of the extreme care that the Ministry of the Environment and not only the Government have had with this territory is that there were preventive measures associated with the non-approval of this same POOC (Plano de Orla Costeira), such preventive measures whose renewal was approved in the last Council of Ministers, will certainly be published very soon, and by this way, there is no risk that there will be any planned zone where any dismissal may occur. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u221	We moved on to the Green Parliamentary Group, giving the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u222	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I would like to talk about the miraculous project of exploitation of lithium. As you know, the Preliminary Environmental Assessment Report, which is now in public consultation, was made only because the ENP did not give up this struggle and made the State Budget include the realization of a Strategic Environmental Assessment of Mining. However, I would like to remind you that what we want from the outset is a transparent and participatory process. I therefore ask you, first of all, whether, given that we are in the process of transition of mandate in the local authorities and that 19 of the 32 municipalities that have to decide have changed as president and some even as political colour, here today undertake to extend the deadline for this public consultation. The second question I put to you concerns the outcome of the consultation. We already know that the Government considers lithium to be the solution to all problems, although it is strange that Mr. Prime Minister in the election campaign did not go to these sites to announce these farms as announced by the PRR projects. But the question is whether it commits itself to the populations not to advance if they do not manifest themselves in mass in this public consultation against prospecting and research in their regions. It is that, despite all the promises of progress, people remember and remember that uranium mines only and only left environmental liabilities, that the barrier of Tua or Ribeiradio did not bring any local development, quite the contrary, and what we find today in these regions is desertification and abandonment. Regarding the defense of SNS and primary health care, it is true that positive steps have been taken, but we have reached the final stage of the pandemic and, what the numbers say, we are worse than when we started. Mr Prime Minister speaks of more than 25% of workers, Mrs Health Minister speaks of 29 thousand professionals, but the accounts are not accurate. After all, today, how many people don't have a family doctor? How many doctors do you need to hire? What will you do to make SNS attractive to professionals? The question is simple: primary health care continues to operate with enormous weaknesses throughout the country, with consequences for the health of citizens, particularly the elderly. Are the elderly a priority of this government or not, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u223	To reply, Mr President, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u224	Mr President, I will answer half an hour with a government colleague. Mrs Mariana Silva, yes, the challenge which she presented to Mr. Prime Minister and that he himself asks me to answer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u225	I'm sorry! Now, the Ministry of the Environment is talking about lithium!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u226	...I myself, in an interview last Saturday, already assumed, there is already an order in this sense, i.e. it was extended for one month, until December 10, the public consultation of the strategic environmental assessment of lithium... [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]] I'm assuming you want to hear the answer, Mrs... it was extended for one month, until December 10th, that same public consultation. If everyone comes to say 'no' on the spot, this cannot be the reason for decision, just as if they all come to say 'yes' on the same site or otherwise it cannot be the reason for decision either. Public consultation is, of course, an essential element in what must be the final decision to be taken on these eight places. This public consultation was desired by the party of V. Exa. It's true! This strategic assessment was desired. Was it mandatory? It wasn't. And it wasn't why? There are no cumulative effects between the projects, but the government understood that yes, it was important that this be done. We feel that we are indeed late, and the relevance of lithium to energy transition and digital transition is absolutely essential. Lithium will always be used in Portugal and it is good that it is not imported, as you seem to want. The work is done, it is a technically very robust work done by the University of Aveiro, it is in public consultation and we wanted this public consultation to be only after the elections, it is true. The work was ready a month earlier and we did not objectively want to disrupt the election campaign with this public consultation, so this public consultation is now under way and the regulatory deadline, which was until 10 November, will be until 10 December. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u227	The Government is still speaking and will now speak to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u228	Mr. President, Mrs. Mariana Silva, in fact there are more doctors in the National Health Service, there are more professionals in the National Health Service, but in fact, in the area of general and family medicine we still have about one million users without a family doctor, although in August there are 5805 family doctors in the SNS, to whom 195 retired in office, compared with 5138 who existed in 2015. That is why we need to continue our work on strengthening the SNS and improving working conditions in the SNS, particularly in the field of general and family medicine. I would like to stress the circumstances of more than 400,000 registered in the national user register for the use of SNS, since 2015, and more than 127,000 — I underline 127,000! — since the end of 2020. It is not surprising, therefore, that although there are more doctors, there is more pressure, the lists of registers are heavier, are more complex and the family doctors continue to miss in many regions. That is why we have plans to improve the work regime in the National Health Service, the work regime in the areas that we are most interested in, especially in this one that is so vital to Portuguese people, which is the area of family health teams, the area of family doctors, the area of family nurses. It will be a year of much work and this will, of course, be a priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u229	Mr. Diogo Pacheco of Amorim now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u230	Mr President, Prime Minister, continuing the question I put in the first round, I spoke on structural reforms and these are perfectly in the format of this debate. Responding, in fact, to your challenge, my party will present tomorrow a bill contemplating preventive detention in case of accumulated resources in areas of difficult access or areas without extradition and/or when there are more than five years in prison after conviction in the first instance. Let us see if the parties that support the government will support this initiative or once again take refuge in vague allegations to lead it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u231	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u232	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will appreciate this initiative. from its description, it did not seem to me that there was any significant change in the current legal framework. I draw attention to the fact that there is a wide range of measures which can be applied, from the mere apprehension of the passport to the application of measures that deprive the country of freedom, to the prohibition on the exit of the country. There are measures which can be taken in the legal framework already in force, but if it is possible to improve the legal framework in force, we will not fail to improve the initiative being the Reacher. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u233	I suppose Mr Pacheco de Amorim still wishes to use the word. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u234	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I hope that the measures that can be taken in the legal framework in force are in fact adopted and should have been, by the way, already been adopted. As for improving, we are always willing to improve, and it is in this spirit that we will present our bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u235	I understand that Mr. Prime Minister does not intend to intervene...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u236	Mr President, we will leave these 38 seconds to the credit for the generosity you have had with the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u237	Mr. Prime Minister, the Bureau has to manage time rigorously and that's all. It is the only criterion, but good will has not failed, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u238	I know! I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u239	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : Moving to something completely different, I would like to say that in the last three months the Government has given here an example of how it likes to deal with some problems, which is to take on them, complicate them, then import solutions that have already proved that they do not work, some of them for more than 10 years, by this outside Europe, then add some courageous layers of bureaucracy and, at the end, the problem does not only resolve itself as worse. I'm talking about the ticket card. Three months after the foul would take and two months after the beginning of the professional football seasons, what do we see in the stadiums around this country outside? Empty benches—and now that there has ceased to be lotting limits, this represents loss of revenue for clubs, which have not, itself, year and half too easy— we have followers who, not because they are not in these empty benches, are mixed with the rest of the spectators, worsening the problem that should have been resolved; these are mixed but the families, if they want to go to games outside their teams and if, by any chance, one of them does not have a pass card, they are not mixed but are separated, and all this in the middle of stigmatization, a discrimination whose constitutionality I am not going to call here, but there must be some, in relation to football fans who seem to be all outlaws. So, the result of all this: huge confusion. Before, to go to see a football game, you needed a ticket; now, in addition to the ticket, you need a citizen card, club partner card, check card and adept card. Therefore, the Socialist Party has achieved this fantastic thing: transforming a football stadium from a pleasure to something as unpleasant as going to the distribution of finance. Mr. Prime Minister, before this authentic fiasco, which is the application of this law, we have already done our part, which is to submit here, in the Assembly of Republic, a bill to revoke this initiative from the adept card. I wonder if the government will speed up this process, and since the time is already on its way, it will also not want to speed up this finding and make the revocation of its own motu.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u241	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u242	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I confess that I am not in a position to respond, but I was very impressed with his description. So I'm going to find out about that reality from the adepto card. Frankly, I'm not in a position to answer you, but your description, this time, was so impressive that even I seem to be convinced, and that's just what makes me suspicious,... [[Laughing.]] ...that is, I'm here to be convinced, but ready! ...I cannot also have this prejudice here to think that you are never right. Maybe it's this time you've got it! ...but let's see. I promise I'll go see. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-07.u243	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this debate. The Bureau welcomed Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's agenda will be as follows : in point 1 there is the discussion of Petition No 130 / XIV / 2. a ( Movement So Not School) — By revising DGS guidelines for school year 2020 / 2021 ; of point 2 is the joint assessment of Petition No 129 / XIV / 2. a (Angela Maria Oliveira Galvão et al.) — COVID-19 — Enlargement maternity leave for 1 year to 100 % and of Bill 622 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates an prenatal parental leave and an prenatal parental allowance by making the eighth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 to the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and to the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 643 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Promotes equality in the exercise of parental responsibilities by establishing a joint initial parental leave, 841 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Approves measures to strengthen protection in parenthood, for the purpose of the sixth amendment to the Labour Code and the sixth amendment to the legal system of social protection in parenthood within the framework of the social security system and the solidarity subsystem, 857 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the protection of lawyers in case of parenthood, 948 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Enlarges and guarantees the allocation of the initial parental equal leave in terms of gender to single-parent families and through adoption, extends the father's exclusive initial license and the exemption for breastfeeding, breastfeeding and child follow-up, 524 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — By increasing the parental leave allocated to the country's mothers and parents, thus contributing to a strengthening of family ties and, consequently, the birth rate and the Resolution Project No 956 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Exceptional support for single parents and numerous families; of point 3 is the assessment of Petition No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( Manuel de Sousa e Silva et al.) — By the urgent requalification of the National Highway 16, between the Termas of São Pedro do Sul and Vouzela ; of point 4 is the joint assessment of Petition No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( Commission Representative of Users of Public Health Services of Quinta do Conde ) — Construction of a new health centre in the parish of Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, with a basic emergency service and Resolution Projects Nos 1064 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Construction of a new health center in Quinta do Conde, in Sesimbra, 1120 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, 1127 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Construction of a new health centre and basic emergency service in Quinta do Conde, 1134 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new Health Centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra, 1212 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, and 1231 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Construction of a new health centre in the parish of Quinta do Conde, in the municipality of Sesimbra ; in point 5 are the votes cast. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your cooperation in this session, which I am giving up. [[It was 18 hours and 35 minutes.]]
