ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I request that the gallery doors be opened. We will begin our plenary meeting, the first item on the agenda, which was set by the PAN Parliamentary Group, is the joint debate, in general, of Bills Nos 999 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Recognizes and regulates the figure of the Community animal, reduces the claim period of unidentified animals collected in the CROs, and assigns the State the charge with the sterilization programmes of errant or Community animals, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August to the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October 2001 to the second amendment to Decree-Law No 82 / 2019 of 27 June and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December, 1001 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) — Extends criminal protection to all vertebrate animals by amending the Criminal Code, 514 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Creates a national animal sterilization campaign in 2021, and 1015 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, extending criminal protection to all vertebrate animals. To open the debate, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Cambridge Declaration on Consciousness in Human and Non-Human Animals, which dates from 2012, represents a milestone in scientific consensus around animal consciousness. This evidence has raised the profile of our collective responsibility on how we treat other animals, particularly through legal instruments. Science has come to validate what was empirically already in the public domain, that is, that animals are afraid, hungry, feeling cold, heat and pain, are capable of consequent behaviors, are beings with rich emotional lives that demand respect, protection and dignified treatment from us. A debate that arises in ethics, goes through science and civil society, of course, has to mirror itself in the law. So the NAP brings two diplomas here today. Let us start by talking about the bill that aims to protect animals that, in other countries, have been protected for a long time, but which unfortunately remain forgotten around here. There are many cases of skeletal horses, battered or killed, many of which are abandoned and released, on the public roads, to their luck, which, in our country, even though they are no longer considered in the Civil Code, continue to be treated as such in the Criminal Code. In 2014, it is recalled that the Supreme Council of the Magistracy warned this Assembly to the incoherence of protecting itself criminally only animals that were used as a company, leaving behind other animals, victims of cruelty and who feel and suffer like these. We quote: « It is not understood why cases of unjustified violence or ill-treatment inflicted on an ass, cow, horse or deer are considered legitimate». The Order of Advocates also, in 2016, in written opinion addressed to this House, praised « the intention to extend criminal protection to other animals, which not only those of company, orientation that goes to the feeling of general justice to protect from unnecessary violence and avoidable the other sensituous beings who share the planet with us», considering therefore incomprehensible that criminal protection was not extended to all animals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we can therefore conclude that all judicial operators are more than prepared to receive and apply a law as we propose today. But we also talk about the reality of other countries that are culturally close to us. How are animals protected, regardless of their end, in other countries? However, since 1972 Germany has already provided for the criminal protection of all vertebrate animals in its animal protection law, protecting them from unwarranted deaths and ill-treatment. As stated in the first paragraph of that law, “no one shall cause pain, suffering or harm to an animal for no reason”. But the German criminal example is not an isolated sophistication. In Spain, mistreating a donkey or a horse has been considered a crime since 2004. But the neighboring country didn't stay around. In 2010 it extended criminal custody to all domesticated animals! In 2015 it also came to protect any animal that lives under human control. In Portugal, there is a silent deafening that compacts with unjustified violence and cruelty against other living beings endowed with consciousness—and this, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's absolutely wrong. Let's look at some real-world cases. In 2017, an individual was sentenced in Cáceres, Spain, to 5 years and 6 months in prison for the practice of 10 crimes of abuse of 10 donkeys and horses, which belonged to him and were in a state of severe malnutrition. In Portugal, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, this individual would have been unpunished, not even bothered by the judicial authorities. If the situation had occurred to a few miles to the West, in Portuguese territory, these horses would have been only a few more victims of the indifference of those who have prevented the advance of the legislation. In June of this year, in Lisbon, on a sprawl in the middle of Rossio, an individual threw punches and kicks in the pigeons, grabbed one of them and ripped his head off with his hands! This, in the face of the horrendous screams of all who witnessed the case, including children crying, in panic. The PSP was called to the site and, faced with the bloody scenario, clarified that nothing could be done, that the extreme cruelty they had witnessed was not a crime, indeed, a crime, or a crime. Ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen, do you think this is normal? Do you think this is acceptable? Do you think this aggressor could follow his life without any inconvenience? Do you think it's a good message to tell children that the police can't do anything about the atrocities they've witnessed? In conclusion, what we are proposing today is to end impunity for those who exercise violence and cruelty for no reason, only with the intention of doing harm and paying attention to the lives of other living beings who feel. What is decided today is whether we will continue to allow the head to be removed from an animal (other than a pet) in any spread in our country, with total impunity. What is decided today is not to end legally permitted activities, but to ensure that animals, regardless of who will be their end, their destiny, are protected during their lifetime from acts of unjustified violence. However, and despite always safeguarding those who are legal activities, we cannot consider that everything that happens in this context, and only because it occurs in this context, is criminally acceptable. These are examples of free animal abuse in the context of livestock, for example. If obviously I can't throw punches into my cat at home, I can't get punches out of a pig just because it's on a livestock farm. Without prejudice to other kinds of educational approaches that the State should always promote, the Criminal Code is a fundamental instrument for preventing and censoring behaviours that attack the core of essential values governing society. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP has also scheduled for today the discussion of the recognition of the figure of the Community animal, which is part of the reality in many communities scattered throughout our country, yet without express legal coverage. There are municipalities, such as Sintra, which already provide for this figure in their municipal animal welfare regulations. The recognition of the Community animal constitutes a social response to animal abandonment. This solution also promotes responsible care for these animals. The World Health Organization itself recognizes that citizen participation with abandoned animal populations increases the awareness and sense of responsible care in the community, which contributes, I know - well, to the construction of a socially more structured community. On the other hand, it is an effective way to provide animal health care and is a valid response to avoid even more animals in municipal cans or associations shelters. Moreover, in the case of dogs, it is a way of avoiding the formation of mittens and thus avoiding other problems in relation to the park response of existing public policies to deal with this situation. In view of its autonomy, it will compete with the municipal chambers on a case-by-case basis and consider safety criteria for individuals and animals, among others, as provided for in our proposal. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the historic opportunity to move forward with two subjects of greater relevance, which are long claimed by civil society, one on criminal justice and the other on quality of Community life and animal welfare, confident that both will contribute decisively to our country's progress. We intend, with both the initiatives presented by the NAP today, to transpose into the law what is already widely accepted by civil society. It's a hit-and-run. Today's not any day, it's the day of making a long-awaited difference. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u3	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members João Marques, PSD, and Cecilia Meireles, CDS-PP. Mr. João Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, at the initiative of the NAP, we discussed legislation on animal status. And once again, the PSD affirms its position in favour of the pursuit of animal welfare, defending and approving legislation that guarantees it and penalizes and punishes all kinds of misconduct and attack on animal welfare and health. But we do not defend a humanizing ideology of animals. And we assume this without complexes, without fear of accusations of allegedly "retrograde or reactionary", because we do not follow what, for someone, is the politically correct or the current fashion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u5	We cannot allow pets to be confused with domestic animals and wild animals, bringing them all together in the same category of vertebrate animals, as these initiatives are intended to be done. Everyone has the right to well-being and to be treated with dignity, but with different statutes and roles. A wild animal must be guaranteed by man the preservation of its natural habitat without the influence or habits of living with human beings. A pet is intended to be owned by man, especially in his home. Domestic animals are those who, throughout history, have been conditioned, accustomed or produced—with genetic selection and improvement, it is understood—to live among human beings, intended for human consumption, labor activities, sports activities, cultural and traditional activities and help to human beings. Therefore, we understand that there is compatibility between the rights of animals to their well-being and the human activities for which they were trained and selected, changing their original wild nature and including, obviously, traditional and cultural activities that translate the memory of peoples and reaffirm their differences in equality, their cultural peculiarities, which translate the essence of Portuguese being, for example, while recognizing the same right to other peoples. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP and other parties have produced an endless web of legislative initiatives, aiming at the humanization of animals, a bit at the mouth of the popular saying that "the singer often goes to the source that one day leaves the wing". But we are careful and we want to defend the « wings», because it represents respect for the difference, tolerance, freedom of thought, based on human rights and the rights of animals. They intend to impose a totalizing ideology on everyone, on the whole of society. of its supposed high moral superiority, they accuse of "retrogrades, reactionaries, negationists of scientific evidence" anyone who wishes to disagree, anyone who dares to think differently, anyone who dares to defend their cultural roots, anyone who dares to defend the human activities that, for them, are considered attacks of animal status. The NAP presents its positions as irrevocable, allegedly scientific, inexorable and inevitable, and those who do not share them are considered ‘late, inhuman or even reactionary’. We are in the presence of the same totalizing ideology, based on the same philosophical assumptions and proclaimed by a certain radical left. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, never a free party, respecting the difference, personalist, defender of the freedoms of individuals and societies and cultures, trained in equal opportunities, can defend or align with this kind of ideology of a unique sense, because it is with this type of pseudo-scientific truth, applied to social and history, which destroy cultures and the birth of totalitarianisms, either from extreme left or extreme right, because in the coercion of thought and freedom are exactly equal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this context, the PSD has, and has, historical responsibilities that it is appropriate here to remind those who consider themselves holders of the flag of animal rights. We have seen: it was the PSD who proposed and approved in 1995 the first animal rights protection law; it was also with the PSD that, in 2014, together with other initiatives, of course, the abuse of pet animals was criminalized and an amendment was introduced in the Criminal Code with which the offenders were sought to be punished, but also to create a deterrent and pedagogical effect ; also in 2016, the PSD actively contributed to the improvement of the diploma that approved measures for the creation of a network of official animal collection centres in Portugal, establishing the prohibition of the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the populations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD continues and will continue to defend animal rights and well-being, but clearly distinguishing the human dimension of the animal dimension, without any humanizing vision of animal nature...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u7	... nor through totalizing ideologies of a unique and inevitable sense. That way we won't go. In view of this, and in view of the initiatives under discussion here, we ask the NAP: in this position, do you pay attention to infesting vertebrate animals, pests? Do you take into account the overpopulation of certain species when this implies human activity and harm? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u8	The honourable Member has greatly exceeded his time for a request for clarification, but that time will be cut in the time of his parliamentary group, because that is how it has been done. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u9	Mr President, my request has become irrelevant, because Mr President made the note that I would make. The reason why the request for clarification is given 2 minutes is precisely because, if it is a intervention, the other parliamentary groups cannot address requests for clarification to what clearly are interventions. But Mr President has already given that note.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u10	Mr President, for a long time now, the practice of the Bureau has been this, i.e. to allow requests for clarification to be extended from the moment when this time is cut off in the time of the parliamentary group itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u11	They still did it yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u12	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u13	Mr President, Mr. João Marques, I have heard your intervention very carefully and the reading that we can do when you say that the NAP wants to humanize the way we see animals is that, if we humanize the way we see animals is, in fact, that cases should be crimes, like tearing a pigeon's head to a plane without anything happening, like beating a horse without anything happening,... [[PCP protests.]] ...as what happened in Spain, where they jumped over 75 milklings, having been extremely badly treated, beaten, kicked, in Spain this was considered a crime and in Portugal nothing would happen. So, Mr. João Marques, if what you mean is that the vision of the NAP is to humanize animals, then, yes, I can tell you that, in fact, that is what we want.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u14	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u15	But I also tell you the following: of all your speeches, what we can conclude is that you have ignored everything that is the scientific evidence that has been produced over the years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u17	Let us return, for example, to the scientific consensus gathered around the international declaration of conscience of 2012, which the honourable Member clearly ignored in his speech. In fact, it gives the feeling, in the intervention it has made, and in comparative terms, that it is almost like talking about human rights and that all people have rights, but that women should stay at home washing the dishes... [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, what is worth clarifying here is that in the NAP's proposal it is clear that no damage should be inflicted, any ill-treatment of an animal for no legitimate reason, without justified reason. So here is the clear answer to the question you have addressed to us. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u18	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u19	Mr President, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, I will make an intervention later, but I am telling you that, in fact, it separates us, I would say, a world: the Member has just compared the rights of animals to women's rights! I don't know if you know what you just said in this plenary. You just said that discussing animal rights or women's rights is exactly the same. In fact, from a philosophical point of view, we are divided into a world, Mrs Deputy. Moreover, I would like to make a real request for clarification, because the honourable Member spoke in the gallery of acts of cruelty that are shocking to us all: she spoke of ill-treatment of horses, donkeys, an act which I think, from the point of view of mental health, seems a little doubtful, which has to do with pigeons. I would like to ask you what relationship this has to do with the legislation that is being proposed here, because we need to understand what we are discussing. The legislation you are proposing here has nothing to do with this; the legislation that you propose here today has to do with the criminalization of the death of any vertebrate animal for no legitimate reason, and no densification is made of what is the legitimate reason. Therefore, I would like to know why it does not make any densification of what is legitimate reason and what is legitimate reason for it. For example, does livestock become a crime? The death of animals for human consumption, like fishing, livestock, becomes a crime? The death of animals for pest control becomes a crime? It is that, if it does not happen, I apologize a lot, but then you cannot propose this, you have to redone all your proposal, because what you are proposing is an open concept that is not densifying. In fact, the honourable Member has just said that animal rights and women's rights were the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u20	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u21	So, realize that I'm a little doubtful about your assumptions. Then, about inflicting pain, inflicting suffering, I also think that this concept needs to be quite densified. Why? Because I have heard here some NAP proposals that refer to violating the natural behavior of animals. Sterilization violates the natural behavior of animals and, in this sense, it can also be considered, Mrs. Member, that inflicts pain and suffering on the animal, because it violates its natural behavior, but on the other hand, Mrs. Deputy will also, of course, defend it in many cases. Therefore, I would like to understand exactly what we are discussing, because if we are discussing what Mrs. Deputy said about that rostrum, then I apologize to her, but her project has nothing to do with it, it is basically a project that makes livestock, fishing and human consumption of animal meat impossible. It is therefore appropriate to define concepts. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u22	In reply, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u23	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, before any additional statement, I would like to say that I have not made any comparisons between women's rights and animal rights here. What I said, and I repeat, is that the conclusion that I draw from what Mr. João Marques said is exactly that we can talk about rights, but we forget the others. And what we have been talking about here today is precisely what, in this House, fortunately, has already been making a very important path to the protection of animals considered to be pet, but, as the honourable Member well knows, there have been many lawyers and criminalists who, at the time, have pronounced themselves, including the danger of only protecting animals and not protecting them all. So, what the NAP brings here today - I say this once again to make it clear - is the extension of the protection that is associated with pets and that we want to bring to other animals that we know are aware of, precisely, there is scientific consensus around it. The replica that the NAP here brings and the model we propose here today is that of the German penal code, which has been in force since the 1970s. And, as we know, Germany has never been prevented from any legal activity. That's exactly what I said in my speech. The NAP, with this proposal, does not intend to interfere in legally authorised activities ; we only want animals that are used for these purposes during their lives to be in fact protected. It is not for an animal intended for food, it is not for an animal intended for a bullfight, it is not for an animal intended for hunting that during its life may be the target of maltreatment. This is not our vision and, therefore, Mrs Deputy, if it is not also your vision, follow this NAP project. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u24	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Important steps have been taken in animal protection at legislative level. in this sense, Law No. 27 / 2016, resulting from a PCP bill, meant a huge advance in determining the creation of a network of official animal collection centers and the end of slaughter or killing of animals in official animal collection centers due to overcrowding, economic disability or other that prevents normal detention by its holder. Thus, it is prohibited, except for reasons relating to the state of health or the behaviour of them, their killing. The law has been regulated, with shortcomings that we recognize, by Ordinance No 146 / 2017 and the collection and adoption rates have evolved positively. The collection centres of pet animals are, in addition to a fundamental instrument in the field of public health policy, also fundamental to ensure dignified conditions for the reception of errant animals. However, the level of implementation and improvement of collection centres and, above all, sterilisation leave much to be desired and cause overcrowding to exist. The means are insufficient and follow-up to implementation has not been sufficient either. In view of this what has been done? The DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) has been withdrawn as its duties and obligations are increased. It doesn't make sense! It does not help to legislate and create new figures when we only have 140 municipal veterinarians in the country, for example. This makes it impossible for law enforcement and for the democratization of animal care. The CFP is not tired of putting this issue, both in the budgetary context and outside it. This lack of means to fully achieve the objectives of the law reveals a circular problem: abandonment and lack of sterilization generates more errant populations and this increase generates overcrowding of collection centres in municipalities. The insufficiency of funds for the CROs (official collection centres) and sterilisation constitute a concrete limitation, because the financing provided by the government does not, or close to it, cover the necessary investments. The lack of resources for sterilization and vaccination of errant animals are problems that still need to be tackled. Therefore, first of all, the PCP does not want to miss any opportunity to put on the table which, indeed, has to be placed. Alongside the CROs and the adoption campaigns developed by them, sterilization is the par excellence instrument for the reduction of the population of errant animals and is one of the ways to end unjustified slaughter in a truly effective way and without jeopardizing any other Community interest. Two years ago, there were 21,000 animals collected, for which no referral solution has yet been found. Today, there will be many more. The solution cannot be the placement in CRO or anywhere else, it is to act on the root of the problem. In many cases, they are associations and organisations of citizens that ensure the collection of animals. There are also known situations of dogs and private shelters for erring animals that do not guarantee dignified conditions. The CFP has already submitted in 2019 an emergency plan for the implementation of Law No 27 / 2016, which aimed at the creation and strengthening of the CRO network and the adoption of exceptional sterilization and vaccination measures for animals, with a view to safeguarding public health, accompanied by the strengthening of financial resources and human resources to enable the collection, sterilization and vaccination of errant and pet animals. Although, in the view of the CFP, this proposal was unacceptable, it did not receive acceptance by the PS and the Liberal Initiative, and had abstentions from the PSD and the CDS. Unfortunately, the reality and the very exposition of reasons from several of the projects under discussion today insist on remembering the need to speed up the creation and modernization of the official collection centres and, above all, to ensure the objectives of Law No 27 / 2016 and the proposal of the intervention CFP for a massive sterilization. So here we bring the proposal again, without accepting back. The CFP maintains concern about animal welfare and the position of non-slaughter of animals as a solution to the problem of overcrowding of dogs and cats, arguing that the path cannot be backward, returning to the slaughter of healthy animals, but rather to strengthening the CRO network and the installed capacity of existing CROs, in order to give the appropriate response to this situation and to act in prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u26	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u27	The absence of a consistent policy of sterilization causes many abandoned animals and other errant animals to continue to reproduce and increase populations, resulting in a real problem for the community. The options for sterilization, temporary collection and vaccination of cats for return to the community and to the street are an example of a method and a policy which respects, at the same time, the welfare of the Community and that of animals. Of course, in order for such experiences to be widespread, it is essential that resources and resources exist. at the same time, it is necessary to see that it is not only the wandering animals — especially dogs and cats — the source of proliferation of errant animals occurring in some territories. In fact, the absence of a policy that bets on a public network of veterinary care, free sterilization and its promotion brings the lack of control over the number of animals that may end up living on the street without being cared for by anyone. Therefore, the CFP wants to be discussed and moving forward to the extent that the animal welfare policy is best served at this time. Therefore, it once again proposes an energetic action, that the central State should not resign, to extend the vaccination and sterilization of animals. An action that should affect two universes: animals in a situation of abandonment or error, with the training of the CROs and municipal veterinary services for collection, vaccination and sterilization; and, also, with the animals with detention, ensuring free sterilization. The set of concrete measures contained in the PCP bill responds to the real problems and at the same time relieves the burden of families and animal caregivers. If there is a real intention to protect animals, if that is genuine, then there is no reason to reject this project and pass this law. A note on the remaining proposals under discussion: legislation in force is appropriate, which fails to monitor, due to the lack of human and technical means of the competent authority, the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary and Municipal Veterinary Physicians, for example, the point where the CFP has struck itself intransigently so that these entities can be provided with means to develop their competences with rigor and professionalism. Regardless of the goodwill of the proposals, it is good to realize that it is not because of the legislative omission that there are maltreatments. There is no lack of criminal protection, but the mechanisms of awareness, prevention, enforceability and supervision have not yet been guaranteed. This is the issue and, unfortunately, it is not because of being in a role that reality changes. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u28	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the registration of three Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. I don't know how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u29	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u30	All right, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor, then, for a first request for clarification, Mrs Germana Rocha, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alma Rivera, we understand and agree with the principle of the proposal brought to debate on the establishment of a national animal sterilization campaign. And, on this subject, we began to highlight the fundamental role of local authorities in the protection of animal life, in which they have more and more demanding responsibilities and functions. But what must not and cannot happen is the transfer of competences taking place without making available the appropriate means to implement them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u33	... under the penalty of the underlying principles being called into question. With regard to the content of the proposal submitted, the first difficulty in its implementation is that we want to note that these services are provided free of charge, raising many doubts as to the identification of costs and their respective funding, in which not even the opening of an exceptional line, resulting from the Environmental Fund and the Institute for Financing Agriculture and Fisheries that they mention, would be able to bear the very high costs and the means that such a campaign requires, in addition to inevitably translating itself into a sharp decrease in the quality of services provided by municipal chambers, which is necessary to guard. Another of the difficulties directly related to the previous one, with which we have long faced and which continues to be resolved, is the fact that there are municipal chambers that do not even have a municipal veterinarian,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u35	...compromising, of course, the work to be carried out in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD understands and shares the concerns that have presided over the presentation of the initiative. However, we believe in the principle of responsibility for the participation of animals in this process. And in this regard, it is worth recalling a recent report on the state of health in Portugal, showing that Portuguese spending more money on their purse with health expenses than the average of OECD countries, which therefore seems to us that, in terms of reasonableness and efficiency in the management of public resources that mainly come from taxes paid by Portuguese, it would be fair to add to the initiative the principle of responsibility, which is why we argue that, in cases where there are possibilities for this, animals should share the costs of the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u36	A moderate rate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u37	Participation would, in our view, be a more just and rational system for all. in this sense, the question I leave to you, Mrs Alma Rivera, is whether you accompany us on the concerns presented. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u38	To request clarification, Mrs Palmira Maciel of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the Communist Party for the presentation of the bill which aims to create a national campaign for sterilization of animals in the year 2021. Recognizing the merit of this initiative, it is extemporaneous and redundant, since its purpose has already been guarded. However, it should be noted that, in terms of animal welfare, and in particular regarding pet animals — identification, vaccination, reduction of abandonment, measures to promote adoption and sterilization — the Socialist Party and the Government have developed and implemented effective policies and we continue to be committed to working and legislating to, in a harmonious way, ensure the quality of life of animals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u41	...the means in which they are inserted, but also, as we have already mentioned, the freedom of those who choose not to have pets. We know that we must continue to reduce the abandonment of animals, favouring actions and campaigns of awareness, sterilization and promoting adoption, and we are convinced, as we have also mentioned, of the essential role of animal protection associations and local authorities, which, in an articulated way, have greatly contributed to the implementation of a large set of measures. Let us remember some of the most recent diplomas approved by the government and that they are already meeting your claim. Government funding has been allocated in the order of 10 million to undertake a set of investments in the welfare of pets, which are developed through local authorities and zoophyll associations. This funding is three times greater than that provided for in the State budget of the previous year. A number of notices have been issued and, at present, there is already a considerable number of applications, therefore being implemented, for example, for the programme of granting financial incentives to the construction and modernisation of CROs and facilities of zoophyll associations; for expenditure on animal welfare programmes and exceptional measures to combat the effects of the pandemic; for a campaign of providing veterinary services to deprived families and zoophiles; for campaigns to support sterilization of dogs and pet cats; for a campaign to support awareness-raising for the benefit of sterilization; for support campaigns for electronic identification and registration of pet animals. Notices were also issued for direct support to zoophyll associations. I also refer to the Resolution of the Council of Ministers approving the National Programme for the Animals of Company, where they stand out: the development of a general regime for the welfare of animals; the National Strategy for the errant animals ; the national network of responses for temporary reception, articulating the collection centres with the accommodations of associations and temporary host families; the National Programme for the Adoption of Pets, in a concerted work between the associations and municipalities and a series of ongoing procedures; the figure of the Provider of Animals, assigning to the holder of this post the mission of protection of animal welfare, promoting a more effective and coordinated work of the State. I also recall the strengthening of human resources, through the hiring of 20 veterinary doctors, and the creation of an animal welfare department, which will operate throughout the national territory, through regional directions. Mrs Alma Rivera, I remember the popular saying « Rome and Pavia did not happen one day», and we have done a lot.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u43	So I ask: if the State budget for 2022 were approved, would it not be an excellent opportunity and a great step towards achieving these measures? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u44	You have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u45	Mr President, I would like to address a question to Mrs Alma Rivera, who has already taken advantage of the initiative of the national sterilization campaign, which, of course, the NAP not only accompanies, but has also claimed the existence of an efficient campaign. Moreover, in the context of negotiations within the State budget, we have already reached agreement on an investment of EUR 2 million in a campaign that would be the basis and starting point for the money that associations and individuals also need, since the position of the NAP is clear: it cannot be the people to be constantly spending on sterilization policies, when they must of course be the responsibility of the State. In her speech, she pointed out once again how important it has been for us to move towards pedagogy and education for these matters, particularly with regard to awareness-raising, which, of course, we are accompanying. But, look, Mrs Deputies, there are so many atrocities we have witnessed in our country that, we know well, they go beyond pets, because they are not actually protected, regardless of the end to which they are intended, as we have already made clear here. But we know it won't be enough. These animals must be effectively protected. Mrs Depute, in her speech, noted the importance of education, but I remember that the NAP presented here a proposal for a recommendation, which she intended, within the framework of the national strategy for citizenship, animal protection and decent treatment of animals, to be from an optional character to a compulsory character. The position of the PCP was dubious. After all, how does the CFP position on this matter? I also ask you whether or not the PCP will be next to the protection of these animals, who continue to be victims of numerous atrocities in our country. Will the CFP follow the NAP proposal or not? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u46	In reply, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u47	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions that have been put to me. I shall begin by saying that it is at least improbable — let us say that it is even a retrograde conception — think that, by criminal means, we can solve issues that are much more complex. [[PCP applause.]] Much more complex! Because, if not, the laws that the NAP has already passed would have had results and we wouldn't be here having this conversation. We are talking about an enlargement of the scope, we are not talking about the strategy adopted. And the strategy adopted by the NAP apparently did not fail, as, in fact, they recognize. But if we all agree with the issue of the approach to prevention, the approach to education and a vision of a more harmonious relationship between human beings and animals, then there must be concrete action. And the prevention and adequacy of the means are done with the approval of proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u49	The CFP brings here a proposal. We know that there is overcrowding in the official collection centres, that is obvious. This overcrowding exists because there is no control of the populations of errant animals and this control does not exist because sterilization campaigns are not sufficient. And it is not only the erring animals that reproduce themselves, it is also the nests that continue to be born and whose owners are people who unfortunately do not have the means to pay for sterilization.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u50	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u51	So these are priorities. We can find the subterfuges we want, the doubts we want, but as long as we are not consistent with what we say we are not going there! If we do not start to strengthen the municipal veterinary means, which are those that guarantee access to families, the elderly, who do not have money to take care of their animals, while we do not put teams on the street to carry out sterilization campaigns, while the funding given by the government ensures a small part of the investments that need to be made by the municipalities, until these issues are resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u52	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u53	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, as long as these fundamental issues are not resolved, which are the serious issues that need to be answered, we can make all the announcements that we did not solve the problem. And as for the State budget, I am asking the question: why did the PS not want the Budget and is more concerned with elections? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u54	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The existence of general rules for the protection of animal welfare, based on a relationship of harmonic coexistence with human beings, recognizing the rights of animals to well-being, is fundamental, as well as their protection in situations of ill-treatment and cruel treatment. in this context, pet animals have a legal protection other than other animals, justification that seems to us exceeded, insofar as we see no distinction between leaving a dog or a horse to starve. The action is the same, only changes the classification that we attribute to the injured animal. Will it make sense, then, just to protect some? I am sure that there is no Member or Member in this plenary who agrees with the free aggression of an animal, regardless of whether it is a pet or a livestock animal, for example. Regardless of the use or classification of the animal, it should be entitled to live a life free of ill-treatment. As such, the proposal under discussion today amends the Penal Code in order to criminalize the death and unjustified abuse of vertebrate animals, as well as their abandonment, by extending the criminal protection that now exists for pets to the other animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u56	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, spoke also for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament approved, and well, the end of the slaughter of errant animals, but, despite the numerous and well-founded warnings, it did not worry about implementing viable alternatives, which resulted in what was already known to happen, overpopulation of errant animals. Therefore, we will have no doubt of voting in favour of the CFP proposal on the national sterilization campaign, because it goes directly to the root of the problem. As far as the NAP proposals are concerned, we are strongly opposed to one of them, which is the extension of criminal protection to vertebrate animals, a very poorly constructed law. As for the other project, it has the merit of recognizing the figure of the Community animal, a distinction that makes the whole sense in fact. However, we have many doubts in the proposed regulation either because of the enormous bureaucratic burden required to register a Community animal or because of the reduction in the claim period of unidentified animals collected in the official collection centres. We are not going to obstruct this proposal, but given the extensive work of expertise that is required, we do not find it possible to complete the legislative process before the dissolution of Parliament. So here is the commitment to return to this subject in the next Parliament, if the NAP so understands. In conclusion, and returning to the CFP proposal, I cannot fail to make this political observation: when it comes to animal health and welfare, the CFP argues that, in addition to the services provided by public entities, the State uses private and social entities to ensure that this service is provided in the best conditions. In other words, the PCP defends for animal health a better solution than the one it defends for people's health, and that no one understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u58	For an intervention, Mrs Dora Brandão has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party, I greet Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues for presenting the bill under discussion. This project—and my intervention goes in this context—proposes that Articles 387 should be amended. o, 388. is 388. the -A of the Criminal Code, by introducing the term « vertebrate » in front of the designation « animal », replacing the term « pet » in force. On the other hand, consequently, Article 389 is deleted and repealed. that of the so-called legal diploma. This legislative proposal significantly amends the legal good to be protected, sets out the exceptions excluded from the concept of crime in the current wording, in particular the use of animals for agricultural, livestock or agro-industrial purposes, as well as the facts related to the use of animals for commercial or other purposes legally provided for in this Article. Considering that the Penal Code must be based on the fundamental values of the community, on the criminal frameworks that mirror the hierarchy of values underlying society, on the status quo, on the prevailing collective consciousness, because it is here that its acceptance and legitimacy, promoting social peace and not collective turbulence, as this proposal would bring. My question, which I leave in the air, is the following: what answers does the honourable Member have for safeguarding these activities, as provided for in Article 389. o, and what are extremely important in terms of society? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u60	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Animal welfare is an issue that triggers long and passionate debates. It also involves the push for ideas made and unworked caricatures. Attending the debate on which we should have before animals is to watch history repeat itself often without account. Back in 1995 we had, in the bill that instituted the crime of animal abuse, the prohibition of shooting at pigeons or the race of chickens, for example, themes that we have repeatedly discussed here and which we have been discussing for almost 30 years — attention! — it was understood to be anachronistic. This discussion was initiated, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 1985, 10 years before the adoption of this law, and it took these 10 years to give some fruit. this discussion remained the first law, which recognized the existence of ill-treatment of pet animals and the need for their protection, but it was necessary more than 10 years for this concept to be included in the Penal Code, thus a petition, with an annexed legislative project, which requested the establishment of a regime for the protection of sensitive animals, once again. This bill, submitted by more than 40 000 citizens and citizens, had much more than what was achieved in 2014. And he had precisely what we have discussed here today: that the law cannot only protect domestic or pet animals from harm, because they are all target of ill-treatment, whether of company or of other animals. In 2020 that was also what the Left Block mentioned again and insisted on. And once again, we insist today: over so many years, and after what we already know scientifically about the suffering and pain of animals, it doesn't make sense that we continue to think that we owe special protection to a kind of animal and that we should withdraw that protection for the rest. In August 2020, the Left Block did not subscribe to the joint text that the NAP, PS and PSD subscribed to the amendments made to the Law on Mistreatment of Animals, precisely because we did not agree that this Assembly of the Republic would deepen this difference, only keeping the law of maltreatment for domestic animals. Our project went further. We continue to say that it must go further and that it was not only essential to clarify the aspects of the law, as it was and still is, as is fundamental to its deepening. Once again, here we are at the door of the end of the legislature, discussing animal welfare, its protection, without this matter having time to be settled in specialty, and when we also did so in August last year, there was no room for the necessary changes. If there were any doubts, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the massacre of Torre Bela, the fires of Santo Tirso, the chickens mistreated by João Moura, the chaotic state of collection centers in several municipalities, the lack of support for associations that do the work of municipalities, the very lack of means of the central state show that we are still far from ensuring the welfare of animals that society asks us to. But also if there were any doubts, there is a majority in this House of the Republic that does not intend to move forward with the minimum and the reverse. Let us look at the case of the bill banning the traps and hunting nets used to capture non-cinegetic birds. There seemed to be room for approval, there was a specialty process. And, in the end, where is the law? Let us see our ongoing discussions on the protection of species with conservation status or unknown or in danger of extinction, for example, not allowing them to be hunted. These proposals were also repeatedly plunged. Let us look at the discussions we have about the need for public control, reliable information, monitoring and limitation of hunting to ensure the conservation of species, habitats and territories. On this subject, we will also have the vote, precisely today, of two draft resolutions with quite simple ambitions, I would say even modest: disclosure of data, the existence of veterinary technicians and doctors who accompany these spaces of cinematic activity, the tighter or tighter control by the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and the Forests, I.P. ) , hygienic control, control of stocks, which contradict the idea of conservation, and minimum areas of refuge for animals. When we are fluctuating with climate change, when we have a million species at risk of extinction, measures like this are not only sensible, as are highly necessary, but a majority of this House of the Republic still denies them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that not everything has been equal since 1995 and that advances have been made, but it is also true that the society and the ecosystem in which we live ask us to go further, ensuring the protection of animals against human aggression, whether they are created by us for company, for food, for shows or other functions. What is not accepted — that is what must be legislated — is that one can inflict pain unnecessarily on an animal that is not of company and that there is no consequence, and that we endanger, impatience and serene, the existence of whole species, knowing this clearly. This House of the Republic will certainly discuss this subject more often. Let us hope not to wait another 10 years so that the protection of the species, habitats and sensitive animals is a reality and that human activity takes this need into account. What depends on the Left Block, we're here for that requirement. For our part, in fact, we would have made history much longer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u62	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017, about 40,000 animals were removed from the streets and collected in official animal collection centres (CROA), municipal or intermunicipal. In 2019, numbers indicate that about 32 000 animals were removed from the streets. We could be excited about the difference between these national numbers, but what these can tell us is that the collection centres that exist throughout the country are overcrowded and have clear difficulties in welcoming the errant animals. However, the dimension of these numbers is the reflection of a problem that needs to be addressed. We are not only talking about the animals that are being collected, we also have to add the many who continue to wander through the streets. The Greens therefore proposed, in the last State budgets, necessary funds to enable the State to comply with the measures laid down in Law No 27 / 2016, with the continuation of the creation of a network of CRO (official collection centre) and the allocation of these with specific spaces for sterilization of dogs and cats. With regard to animal welfare, we have come to the path of changing behaviours and mentalities, accompanied by the adoption of important legislation on animal welfare. It is important to say that, from the perspective of the Greens, in order to continue to follow this path, it is necessary for citizens to know in some detail the practical effects of the application of these essential aspects of the legislation in force and the difficulties in its application, so that it is perceived whether they are being, or to what extent, the objectives to which they propose, in particular, greater protection of animals, deterring and eradicating acts of violence or abandonment. It is therefore necessary to know the effects of the criminalization of maltreatment of animals, or the extension of the rights of animal associations, and also to understand the difficulties experienced by the official collection centres and the compliance with the prohibition on the slaughter of errant animals. The Greens Ecological Party has always made it clear that one of its concerns is related to the monitoring and practical application of the various aspects of the law. It was in this sense that in the 2020 State Budget, on a proposal from the Greens, the establishment of a working group for the evaluation and application of the animal protection law and the law on official animal collection centres was registered. The working group set up produced an important report which can and should serve as an instrument for future amendments to the law. However, the path to ending overpopulation, which brings serious public health problems, is sterilization, an important tool for the realization of a policy of managing pet animals and which should already be more advanced. Therefore, it is essential that the money for sterilization is increased, both for municipalities and for associations, plus means to promote it. It is urgent to sensitize the population to the need to sterilize not only the animals collected, but also all those not intended for creation. However, we cannot ignore that in order to achieve the sterilization numbers that we want, it is not only necessary to provide the CROs with specific physical conditions, but also of professionals and specialists. Also in this respect, the municipalities continue with serious gaps. On the other hand, the community awareness process for the adoption and protection of pets remains very slow. These difficulties make it possible for official collection centres to continue to be overcrowded, not being able to give other urgent answers, that communities need, for example, people who live alone and have to be hospitalized and have nowhere to leave their pet. These situations also served the CROs, but they cannot, because they are debating themselves with serious problems of overpopulation. They also add difficulties to most centres, because several municipalities still do not have support programs for deprived families, which often need support to ensure access to health care for their animals. Awareness-raising campaigns are also important, which should take place with school communities in order to promote respect, adoption, protection of animals and the end of the abandonment of domestic animals. We could continue to mention all the gaps that we can still find in many municipalities, despite the efforts that have been made. We could continue to point out that successive governments have ignored and resigned from fulfilling their responsibilities. However, more than we have constantly changed the laws, we must ensure that everything has been done, that municipalities, together with the parish, can at least know how many animals exist in their territories and that local power is able to work together with associations that give essential support to the cause. Some of the proposals that are being discussed today call for amendments that do not follow the reality. Caring for animals, all animals, creates conditions to preserve their well-being requires that they act rather than continue in the world of intentions. Even because animals deserve our respect, they need evolution in behaviors and mentalities and not radicalisms that can even lead to retrocessions, as unfortunately those predicted today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u64	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Bento spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In today's societies, it is consensual to recognize animals as sensitive living beings, as well as to be fully recognized the ethical imperative of adopting measures designed to protect them. The Portuguese society recognizes the need for animal protection in the face of acts of cruelty, abandonment and ill-treatment. Internationally, operational procedures have been developed since 2007 to include animal care strategies through the development of social responsibilities locally. In Portugal, animal welfare legislation has been made and significant legislative steps have been taken. In addition, in order to achieve the necessary adaptation of the national means of response to the demands of Portuguese society in these matters, by providing structural support for the legislative steps given, in order to achieve a full stage of animal welfare, public health, safety and tranquillity of the population, a set of measures for autonomous and strengthened welfare of pet animals was approved by Council Resolution No 78 / 2021 on 25 June of this year. In particular, I refer to the National Strategy for Errant Animals, in which it appears to be of greater importance to invest in the prevention and reconfiguration of official collection centres as temporary housing and close to populations, where non-container animals can be recovered, from the health and well-being point of view, and integrated into a national adoption programme, using a network of properly regulated and supported temporary foster families for this purpose. The path to strengthening the foundations and foundations I have just indicated was drawn up and I am sure that in 2022, the policy on pet welfare will continue to be strengthened, which was expressed in the State budget for 2022, which only the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group voted favourably. I believe that, with the measures I will list, we will not be discontinuing our responsibilities. In 2022, we will continue to develop measures to promote the safe treatment of pets and continue the National Strategy for Mistakes Animals, developed by the ICNF, which will continue to invest in the prevention and reconfiguration of official collection centres. The national training plan will be extended with new modules and greater scope of recipients, giving priority to matters relating to the assessment of animal welfare, criminal and counter-order national protection, medical and forensic expertise, population control, responsible detention and management of non-profit housing. The national register of zoophyll associations shall be established with the ICNF. Ladies and gentlemen. Members today, we are called upon to debate, through the initiative of the NAP, the Bill No 999 / XIV / 3. the possibility of recognising and regulating the figure of the Community animal, the possibility of reducing the claim period of unidentified animals collected in official collection centres and also the possibility of awarding the charge to the State with the sterilization programmes of errant or Community animals. We recognize the merit of the initiative and follow its purpose. National reality shows us that it is important to recognize and regulate the figure of the Community animal. We take advantage to greet the community, institutions and school communities. in this sense, let me mention a personal example: 20 years ago, at my school in Silvares, in the Town Hall of Fundão, there was already this figure that we intend to recognize and regular. Each of us, students, teachers, assistants, were responsible for animal welfare, ensuring custody, food and medical and veterinary care. In fact, all of us, as a school community, embraced those four-legged comrades. Again recently, we had reports of communities of residents who are deeply engaged in identical missions. They are true caregivers, who should have the possibility of legally recognizing this care. We all win this mission as a community. However, we understand that we can, together, in dialogue and compromise, promote the improvement of the project under discussion, in the field of expertise, in order to find balances that we consider necessary, appropriate and proportionate to the realities of our territories. In particular, as regards the definition of Community animal, we believe that this should be the following: "any animal expressly authorised by the municipal chamber to remain in a public space to which the animal is used and where it is integrated, whose custody, food and veterinary care are ensured by a person, singular or collective, or community of residents or caregivers, under the supervision of the municipal veterinarian. Do not keep on seeking. ” As regards the extension of the deadline for 15 days of presumption of abandonment for unclaimed animals, this seems excessive to us. We must maintain the eight-day regime insofar as, in view of the ban on slaughter in the collection and overpopulation centres, it is necessary to deal quickly with these issues. In fact, we know that a caregiver, a responsible detainee will not pass, except a few limitations, more than eight days to recover his pet. In fact, we know that we can count on the obligation to identify and register animals in the Company's Animal Information System, which allows the rapid identification and meeting of detainees with lost animals. We must still, in consistency, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the creation of the Community animal figure, create the possibility of adoption by legal persons and, at the same time, in the same diploma, shorten the possibilities of entities that can give such an answer, because, in fact, more than conditions of accommodation or management, is the animal welfare that must be guaranteed. Always keeping focus on animal welfare, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to emphasize that, despite the prohibition on slaughtering animals in official collection centres, we must not fail to consider the serious behavioural changes of animals which may compromise the welfare of the animal itself, and this proposal, as presented in this particular point, does not consider this possibility. In fact, it is the State, for public health and animal welfare reasons, which ensures, through the official animal collection centres, the capture, vaccination, electronic identification and sterilization of errant animals, where necessary, as well as the implementation of capture, sterilization and return programmes. The balance between public health and animal welfare must be in the spirit of the law and, in practice, in partnership, in the work of neighbouring with local entities which, by their proximity, are confronted with the reality of having a Community animal. There is, therefore, a need for supervision, a favourable opinion of the municipal veterinary doctor, in order to safeguard animal welfare, public health, the safety of people, other animals and goods, which enables healthy and desirable coexistence, without excessive delimitations that may, if any, jeopardize the existence of Community animals. The balance and consistency in legislation on this matter are crucial to ensuring that they exist, not to overburden the caregivers of the Community animal, who must, on a network with local authorities, with doctors, define protocols, including accountability, but optionally. In promoting the deepening of the social commitment of the State and local authorities to the control and management strategy of the animal population, and so that these entities, together with the association movement and non-governmental organizations, can adopt appropriate measures to ensure a conditional destination for animals, it is essential, Mrs and Mrs. Members, that the local authorities are equipped with means, fundamental to the management of this issue, especially in the appropriateness of measures to the different realities that are in their own territories. The challenge is enormous and, for it to be answered, it always requires all reasonableness, knowledge of the reality of each territory, in coherence and finally having what unites us: animal welfare. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u66	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record an inscription by Mr André Neves of the PSD for a request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Joana Bento, the position of the PSD throughout history is well known, as my colleague João Marques mentioned, with various episodes and legislative impulses that now density the regulatory framework, the legal framework, which regulates this matter. However, recognizing the importance of the topic, the appreciation of the subject we bring to discussion should not lose the focus of the following: about a year ago this matter was also discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and, in part, ended with agreed legislation between various parties, including the NAP. Now, what I think is that it makes no sense that, from year to year, we can come to discuss the same matter. There must be some stability in the regulatory and legal frameworks that regulate it, regardless of the problems and solutions we find. We need to make a current assessment of the changes we are making over time and I think that the PS also has to define its position consistently. The PS cannot take a position on one occasion and, on another, because it can have some negotiating interest with the NAP, particularly in the context of budgetary negotiation, ultimately in matters on which it had a different attitude in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u69	Now, Mrs Deputy has just listed a set of hypothetical measures for what would be the 2022 budget proposal and that Mrs Deputy of the PAN, Bebiana Cunha, would have already negotiated with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u71	The idea with which we are left is that the conviction of the Socialist Party varies through the negotiating needs for the State budgets. [[PSD applause.]] In other words, what would you like to know, honourable Member, is the true position of the Socialist Party, what is the Socialist Party's conviction in this matter? It cannot be a conviction that varies from year to year! Secondly, I shall keep my initial question: does the honourable Member not think that this matter also needs some regulatory stability, some legal stability? Or do we also have to give in to the interest of the NAP, in order to come here and discuss this matter, why are the legislative elections presented within a few days? It is important to know this because this project entered the day when the proposal for the State Budget Bill for 2022 was dropped, when we all know that this matter had already been discussed and even had been agreed on in a proposal, a little more than a year ago. Now, the idea is that we are here discussing this matter again, after a year, not because there is a need for regulation, but because the NAP wants to mark the political agenda with a flag that has been of its party for a long time. That's what has to be said! Question: Will the PS embark on this? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u72	In reply, Mrs. Joana Bento has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u73	Mr President, answering the honourable Member's question, I would like to say to you that it seems to me that you have not heard anything about what I have done! [[It's normal, it's normal!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u74	The honourable Member was not paying attention, but that is your problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u76	In reply to the question about what the Socialist Party is interested in, I must say that what matters to the Socialist Party is to give every day answers to the problems of the communities; it is every day to respond to the needs of the creation of figures, such as this figure that already exists in the community and that meets the needs of both the authorities, both the collection centres and the local communities themselves. The honourable Member may be offended by this reality, but the Socialist Party is in fact not and is not from year to year, it is constantly. In fact, recently in June, I gave several examples of promoting animal welfare over this time. Therefore, Mr President, I understand that you prepared your intervention before I did mine. But to ask what the PS wants, I answer that it is obvious that what the PS wants is to give people an answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u77	Of course, it's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u78	Why? Because it is prepared for political combat, for the forthcoming legislative elections, because it meets people's needs every day, and the Portuguese and Portuguese will be able to give it due notice and due recognition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u79	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few days after the dissolution of Parliament and when there is a health, economic, energy crisis in Portugal and a fifth wave of the pandemic is announced, as well as a period of inflation leading to a widespread increase in prices, which makes Portuguese deeply concerned about their future and the future of younger generations, all this in parallel with a political crisis and to be in pre-election period, it is difficult for the PSD to understand that it is missing a whole morning to discuss this matter. The Portuguese will not understand the priority of this debate! [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese, of course, like the PSD, do not understand that Parliament has a full morning of this kind of initiatives, relegating to the background the real problems that are common to all in the day-to-day and the difficulties that arise in the future. But for the NAP, none of this matters and uses the short remaining time of this legislature to come in addition to 25. the time, to present a general debate on initiatives aimed at creating profound changes to the legal regime around pets as well as errant animals, the European Convention for the Protection of Pets of Company, the Criminal Code and even more amendments. We understand that it is a moment of electoral campaign for the NAP, which knows very well that this legislation has come in at the last hour and already without any possibility of serious discussion, as all matters deserve. This debate today is another example of what we have come to know, week after week, month after month: the NAP repeats, insists, persists in the same initiatives or in very similar ones, always outside the reality of our country and the concerns of the Portuguese, who have lived in a severe pandemic for the last two years. This legislation, which follows forward, would require a great process of expertise to listen to society, experts and entities. The truth is that the NAP is once again insisting on initiatives that, to be generally approved, are at risk of forcing a very rapid specialty and a final vote of backs to Portugal and to the Portuguese, in a closed Parliament itself, only to please some niches of population and some electoral niches, because that is what this is about. We will therefore appreciate the initiatives in more formal terms and their content. Before that, let me point out that it might be good for the NAP, once and for all, to think carefully about what the Constitutional Court said about the issue of animal abuse, because sometimes when we don't know how to stop we run the risk of being complicit in setbacks like this. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Parliament has an obligation to think very well what it does, because when we try to insist on and bring legislation and things to the limit, we are complicit in civilizational setbacks, as in fact happens with all parties with totalitarian ideologies, as is the case with the NAP in these matters. Thus, as regards Bill No. 999 / XIV / 3. a, which proposes several amendments, in particular to the law prohibiting the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population and to the decree-law of the special regime for the detention of potentially dangerous animals, in our view the changes would have a very negative impact on well-being and put at risk the safety of populations and public health. Of course, with regard to Law No 27 / 2016, at the end of the abatements, there can be a total alienation of the reality of what may be involved. The NAP proposes that the declaration for the aggressive behaviour of animals should be proved, and that it is not possible, and I will quote,'self-training and specialized. » Now, this formulation naturally reduces the autonomy of the veterinarian over the means to be used in aggressive animals, endangering public health and safety. It is also strange that for the NAP, the tents parks are seen as places of magical rehabilitation, such as conversion of assisted dogs and aggressors. Sterilize animals with wildlife mode, because that's what this is about, and put them living in enclosed parks, because that's what the PAN wants, where they spend all the time in their long captivity trying to find ways to escape, it results in enormous suffering for animals. This is all but the nature and well-being of the animal, it is to cause them continuous suffering from the moment they are placed in these spaces until the day they die and this atrocious suffering ends, because these animals are not, as a rule, suitable for life in captivity and, much less, for adoption or for being community dogs. On the other hand, only those who do not know the process of learning and the characteristics of animals may suggest that a wild animal may be dog-pastor or livestock. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also urgent to ask how the buildings and the official collection centres remain, in terms of space, before the mass collection of these animals. Do you even think it is possible and fair to keep animals in conditions harmful to their well-being, unique and exclusively because the NAP considers it so, and that is their unique and unique will, which cannot be contradicted by anyone? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, all these projects end up being a form of the NAP campaign, as I have already mentioned, but they also show a totalitarian agenda in which they want us to impose lifestyles, not respecting the various ways of life and confusing animal abuse and animal welfare with the sentient form as they see the world, which is not what others have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u81	Before giving the floor to the PS Parliamentary Group, I ask the services to put on our screens the quorum registration so that we can start this process. The next item is Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the NAP's schedule on a subject that has corresponded to an evolution and to a concern that the House has had over the years. Above all, I think it is important that we try not to dramatize or radicalize a debate that can be done with weight,... [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] ... based on what is consensual and that allows to revisit legislation in the points where this is justified, whether in the Criminal Code, whether as regards the introduction of new concepts, such as that of the Community animal, or on the revision of topics which have occupied the Assembly of the Republic over the past six or seven years. This is more important than using the debate as a moment of proclamation or attack, not directly directed to the problem that is presented. The criminal issue has had a very significant evolution between us, very fast up until 2014, but it is important not to lose sight of it, precisely because we are seeking a debate based on consensus areas, which, in 2014 only with the abstentions of the PCP, of two CDS Members and the votes against two CDS Members, all the other parliamentary groups have voted favourably for the amendment. In 2015, a small amendment adding matters relating to ancillary penalties was adopted by all parliamentary groups only once again with the PCP's abstention. In 2020, in the latest amendment on this subject, the House's unanimity has shown that this topic actually corresponds to the concerns of citizens at all points of the country, with different perspectives, but still reflecting a feeling of the community, and for this reason it helps Parliament to continue to improve and deepen this issue. How? By accepting suggestions from the judicial operators, who are applying the law, detecting the problems and deepening academic work on the subject and also allowing the debate to be extended to other issues already raised in previous times, but which have not met with consensus. This is precisely where we come to the question of extending the scope of protection and the concept of animal that is proposed in the initiatives of the NAP and of Mrs Cristina Rodrigues. This is the fundamental issue of this amendment, which obviously seeks to harmonise solutions from other legal orders, seeks to harmonize what our own legal order has done with regard to the Civil Code, where we have a more comprehensive concept, but which should not dispense with the necessary caution, weighting, maturation of solutions and, above all, should not create additional noise where we can have consensual solutions. The perspective of the Socialist Party in this debate is to contribute, as far as possible, to balanced solutions capable of reproducing the broad consensus of 2014, 2015 and 2020. in this regard, as mentioned above, Germany and Spain offer interesting solutions of criminal law, which can serve as inspiration and which have allowed other activities to live with this penal sanction, when justified. Many countries even provide for animal welfare in their own constitutional law as a relevant element of protection. in this respect, the recent draft constitutional review of the PSD, which did not enter, precisely provides that animal welfare is included in the text of the Constitution as a relevant axis, corresponding to what European Union law itself is doing. There is indeed something that is quite transversal to all benches and, for the same reason, we should focus on what unites us and not on what necessarily divides us about this realization. Therefore, the question will not be so much about whether we are going to make this evolution, but rather about how we should make this evolution, with what concepts and with what caution. Therefore, I wanted to focus mainly on two aspects in relation to which, in the current version of the proposals submitted, without further work and without a review of the matter, we are not yet able to follow this solution and which respect, on the one hand, the concept of animals and, on the other hand, the activities that have to be clearly identified as legitimate reasons in the criminal law. With regard to the first aspect, the way in which the Spanish law has taken us is preferable to the solution of German law, which is contained in the proposals put forward. First, because it is much more determined and clear, identifying categories of more easily concrete animals — domestic or domesticated, temporary or permanently under human control, or animals that do not live in a wild state, and thus being able to offer not only an enlarged parliamentary consensus area, which is important, but also an area of certainty in the application by judicial operators, which is equally important or perhaps even more important than that. Therefore, some unpredictability that we have in this concept generates a concern for us, realizing, in essence, what is at the basis of the proposal presented by the NAP. For this reason, it seems to us that a Spanish solution is preferable, because it is clearer about the object of protection, it is culturally and legally closer to Portuguese reality and it is potentially generating an extended consensus and a greater social consensus, just seeing the issues that, as we all know, are brought to collation in this debate, namely hunting, fishing or Tauromáquic activity, which, in Spain, live with the reality of a Criminal Code that criminalized certain conduct. But that is not the debate we are having today. The different positions that we all have on these activities — bullfighting, hunting or fishing — are known, but I repeat, this is not the debate today and it is important that this be clear. Once again: let us look at what is consensual and in relation to which we can take steps together and not for what, for now, is not on the table. Criminal law is the last ratio of law, so, of course, as much as possible, it must be as consensual and clear in identifying its purposes. This leads me to the second point, which is the delimitation of the scope of criminalization, that is, of what can and should be understood as legitimate grounds for the exclusion of the existence of a criminal sanction. Currently the law — perhaps not with the best legislative technique — in Article 389 ( 2 ). the, ends up having reference to a set of activities, being explicit and clear that they are not challenged by this option of strengthening criminal protection. They are livestock, agriculture, agro-industry, shows, but we could even add others, such as veterinary practices. It has already been raised in this debate whether sterilization is, or not, something that can be considered as a legitimate reason, for example. It is, of course, according to the laws of the arts of veterinary medicine. Consensually, we, who are developing the law, have come to this conclusion, but it is advantageous that this can be expressed very clearly in the legislation and, therefore, it seems to us that there is a lot of work of development and expertise, even to caution other doubts which, in the future, can be raised as to the determination of the concepts we are using. Therefore, there is a sense of opportunity in the initiative that cannot be disconnected from the debate that takes place in the courts and in the appraisals of concrete situations, and there is even an opportunity for the legislator, who, so consensually — almost always unanimously or at least with a significant lack of opposition — has been doing so over the past few years. in this sense, it is essential that « legitimate reason » is defined or precisely where the animals are used and which are outside the scope of this criminal protection, either by virtue of Article 389 ( 2 ). either by deepening the concept of legitimate motive, a technical and legal issue that is not necessarily for today's debate, but for debate in committee. We can even reflect on the development and deepening of some topics that would help the law to be clearer. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, with some precision, pointed, for example, to the concept of suffering. It is true that there are objective elements of scientific consensus that allow us to identify it, such as those that pass through the nutrition or undernutrition of an animal, by the aggression to animals, by training inadequately adjusted to the natural characteristics of animals, but which, to some extent, are not present in the Penal Code and which, eventually, could and should be. That is to say, trying to sum up, so that we can conclude and continue with the debate, it was possible to find consensus in 2014, 2015 and 2020, always in an opinion that, in this House, there will certainly be those who want to go further and, with more caution, to go in a step not so fast. But, in fact, what we are interested in, as a legislator who wants to match the aspirations of the citizens who are mobilising for this cause, is to try to define a consensus within what is possible. If there is an opportunity to hold this debate in the specialty—and I would like to say again that, with the wording that is currently before our eyes, we cannot follow with a favourable vote—with these topics and with these elements, we have the willingness to deepen the debate and try to correct the text, at least in these important aspects in which this is fundamental. In essence, we will seek to broaden the concept and ensure that the activities that are to survive continue to survive, seeking to do so within the framework of a Parliament which, in the past, three times in these and other matters, knew how to meet its responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u83	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u84	Mr President, after the last speeches, I could not fail to make a few comments. The PSD is concerned about the ability to dialogue and negotiate the NAP — we take good note of this! — to advance legislation in accordance with the social sensitivity of Portuguese and Portuguese. If you and Mrs. Members will ask anyone if they consider that these animals should, or should not, be protected, the answer will be clear. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] Moreover, last week we discussed a petition specifically aimed at ensuring protection for equidae, for example. I would also like to note that an intervention was made, also by the PSD, which reveals a dichotomic view of reality, seeking, once again, to bring the debate a division between the rural world and the urban world...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u85	You didn't hear my speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u86	I heard, yes, Mrs. Member. Try to do it as if the world were black and white, but the world is not black and white, it is fortunately colorful, and this view that is brought frequently does not help solve problems. We call on the PSD to rethink and debate this position. Then, on the mat parks, with regard to PSD intervention, we would like to say that it seems clear to us that they would prefer a slaughter policy rather than solve and try to intervene in relation to these animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u87	No, no! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u88	This is because, unfortunately, the PSD does not recognize the work that can be done in the field of animal education and animal behaviour, and we in Portugal are already a lot of specialists in this area. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] In conclusion, the NAP is available to approach the Spanish Penal Code and the consensus in this House, in which there is indeed nothing more basic than censoring free violence against defenseless persons.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u89	Madam Member, I interrupt you because there is too much noise in the Chamber that does not allow you to pay attention to your intervention. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are on the move who feel or leave. Do not forget that we are still in the process of checking the quorum and that an electronic vote will be taken. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, I apologize for the interruption. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u90	Mr President, before we ended the debate, and so that there is no doubt, I would remind you that the expression 'no legitimate reason' already has a long legal tradition that we cannot forget and, of course, we will go along the way necessary to ensure this civilizational advancement that Portuguese society has long claimed. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u91	Mrs Deputy, the Bureau records the registration of Mr Francisco Rocha of the PS Parliamentary Group to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wants, once again, to reaffirm that, generally, in relation to Bill No. 999 / XIV / 3. the NAP recognizes the merit of this initiative and accompanies its purpose, but calls for a detailed and rigorous work with a view to improving and balancing the proposed solutions, and I leave two examples. The first example concerns a trend that we have already judged unwise and that may prove dangerous. The need to control and manage this type of animal population cannot result in the construction of a complex bureaucratic labyrinth that represents an ice cream of resources and administrative tasks, impossible to carry out in practice, removing, and allowing me this term, all and any responsibility in the municipal chambers, without precaution of the existence of technical and logistical conditions for the implementation and implementation of these conditions. The second example concerns the non-involvement of the parish. It seems clear to us that this same diploma olympically ignores the essential role that parish councils can play in the implementation, monitoring and control of this new legal figure, which are the Community animals. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u93	Frequencies must be part of the construction of such solutions, by their nature, by their proximity and by the advantage of becoming partners in this common task of controlling errant animals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will therefore improve, improve, involve all stakeholders, confronting a problem that we have to overcome, investing in the sterilization of errant animals, controlling colonies, implementing responsible adoption campaigns, requalifying and densifying the network of our CROs and also formalizing the figure of the Community animal. That's the way! Let's go! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u94	To answer, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u95	Mr President, Mr Francisco Rocha, I would just like to say, on behalf of the NAP, that in fact we are recording this work that we have to do and that we will certainly do in particular. We also record the receptivity to work on the initiative, which is basically the recognition of a figure that society has long been waiting for, that is, the Community animal. We are well aware of the advantages this brings to our society and the problems it solves. It is a matter of, indeed, cautioning what needs to be guarded. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to raise an issue which has to do with the fact that we have entered the NAP's request, without a vote, for the competent parliamentary committee, for 30 days, of one of the projects we are discussing today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is there anyone in this House in a position to ensure that this Parliament will not be dissolved within 30 days? I think we have to stop and actually think about the messages we're going through today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u99	Each party has every right to have its priorities, and others also have the right to differ from these priorities. in these two weeks, we are closing specialty processes or doing specialty processes that are very simple technically, however, if there is something that we perceive is that this process is not technically simple. So today we are making it possible for the committee to go down without a vote, both of which mean that it is either for English to see and that it is not to end, or that it is to end without due legal certainty. That is why I leave this issue here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u101	Secondly, I asked two questions which have to do with the densification of the legal concepts here. We are talking about extending criminal and criminal protection to all vertebrate animals, i.e. preventing their death for no legitimate reason. Now, it is crucial to understand what is a legitimate motive. Are livestock and fishing legitimate reasons or not? You can tell me that there is a broad consensus for them to be. There is certainly a broad consensus, but then, if this consensus is so broad, I would like to know why it does not appear densified in the bill. This seems to be a relatively relevant question. The question of suffering is, with all honesty, even more difficult to define. Finally, I think it is appropriate to have the perception that we are living in the last days of this Parliament, that we are in the last few weeks. In fact, parties have every right to have their priorities. I would like to say that in a year like this we are living in, in which we are still coming out of a pandemic, in which we have a health crisis — not only the one related to the pandemic, but also the fact that many Portuguese people have not had health care and that they will therefore have serious consequences in their life — in which there were, for example, in 2020, less than 200 child adoptions, I regret that priority is not all this and that priority is the rights of animals. It is a vision of society, but it is a vision of society that I do not share. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if there are more entries before the final intervention of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN. There are parliamentary groups that still have time, but, if no one registers, we move on to the final intervention. [[Pause.]] There are no entries, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard in this Chamber some interventions that, at times, have caused us the strange feeling that we have traveled over time, returning about 20 years, at a time when any attempt to move forward in animal protection was ridiculous. We have heard that it is up to man to control the animals, as if they were just things that are at our service! We have heard that animals, who are not of company, should not have rights, thus ignoring the civilizational advancement, appreciation and emotional ties that unite us, but also the right that every and every being, regardless of their purpose, must be treated with respect and dignity. [[PAN's applause.]] We have also heard that the need for a consolidation of the Criminal Code must hamper this enlargement of the ethical sphere which the criminal field cannot ignore.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u104	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I apologize for interrupting, but there is a lot of noise in the room. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen to our fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. We also heard a vision marked by obscurantism and a retrograde vision of the past century, which calls the totalitarian NAP, but which, in fact, does not come to bring more than the interests of certain sectors in front of animal dignity, besides noting a clear ignorance of the good practices that exist today in our country, as is the case of Matosinhos, who has a piece of clothing that is an example not only in the country, but also beyond-border. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have spent the time when Portugal, in fact, ridiculed these matters and did not make a consensus effort to bring the slightest dignity to the animals, our great companions on a journey. We have been moving forward, and well as has been mentioned since the law of 2015, 2020, which was unanimously approved by this House to follow what is a reality in other countries since at least 1995. Today, the step we are talking about is to stop considering animals based on a speciesist vision, which distinguishes and makes jus to the maximum orwellian that all animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. In fact, we continue behind countries such as our neighbouring Spain or Germany, where this protection already extends to other animals and not just to pets. To talk about this kind of violence is not just to talk about animal welfare; it is also to talk about something paramount, because violence in society cannot be regarded as an inevitability, whether it is against people or animals. We cannot also ignore the link between violence and the macabre contours of those who have fun torturing or mistreating an animal, ignoring, with this, that they are also violating the basic values of human dignity and that humanitarian values can never be indifferent to animal suffering. Indeed, we continue to live in a country where truly heinous crimes continue to be tolerated without replying to our Criminal Code. The examples are more than many: we saw horses left to starve in the heart of Lisbon, we saw horses fallen on the side of the road because they were forced to pull cars, we saw cattle left to starve in livestock farms because they are not fed. This is totalitarianism, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Obscurantism and totalitarianism is to want to impose a sectarian view of society that disregards the respect we owe these animals. [[PAN's applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever we try to bring these advances here, we hear the complaints, the manifestations of indignation and words of circumstance that do not justify the crimes committed and, more importantly, that do not give a voice to those who do not have it, the animals, but who have, fortunately, a civil society in motion that continues to cry out for justice not only in the courts, but also in this House of Democracy. Therefore, for the NAP, it is time to move forward and improve the protection of animals, but here, all kinds of barriers are raised that try to prevent progress. Today, it has happened again, but we hope that good sense will prevail and that, at the stage of the speciality, our Penal Code can in fact be harmonized with the examples of Germany, Spain and many other countries outside this globe. in this Assembly of the Republic, we have only two ways to follow: on the one hand, to hinder these initiatives that are of the greatest and most elementary justice, maintaining criminalization by half, restricting it to pets and ignoring the very appeal of law enforcers; on the other, to take advantage of this opportunity to correct the enormous injustice of many decades, which has recededed to the advance given in the Manueline and Afonsina Orders that have already banned the ill-treatment of domesticated animals and animals used as labor force. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to hear here exaltation by opposition to something that must be a matter of respect and sensitivity only denotes that they are on the wrong side of history and that they do not have the slightest sensitivity and respect for animals. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Let us also not forget that the First Republic, in 1919, established that all violence exercised on animals is considered punishable by criminalizing various behaviours of animal abuse without limiting the scope of this concept. This in 1919, Mrs. And ladies and gentlemen! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] It is appropriate to say that we have returned a century in this matter! Today, animals are consensually recognized as living beings endowed with sensitivity, able to perceive feelings, emotions and feelings consciously, such as suffering, distress and pain. That is why we must, in fact, avoid causing such suffering, because the human being knows how to do so and criminal law has an important preventive and healing function. In fact, since Darwin, we know that the cognitive and emotional faculties of other animals differ only from ours in degree, not in substance. Our renowned neuroscientist António Damásio has an extensive work on consciousness, highlighting the particular situation of all animals with nervous, mental and conscious systems, referring to mammals, birds and fish. Even in his latest book, Sentir & Saber, regrets that the knowledge of this scientific evidence is not enough to behave decently toward the other animals. But the fact is that Portugal remains in Europe's line of criminal justice when animals are victims. The reality in our country causes enormous misunderstanding and indignation of citizens and citizens who resort to criminal justice bodies, in the belief that cruelty will have consequences for justice. But these citizens face the bleak reality: the Penal Code foresees and puts those who damage a mobile phone, a chair or any other material good, but ignores aggressions from a horse, a cow, a deer, or even that the head of animals in public square, in front of children, continues to be completely unpunished. This is completely anachronistic, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is generally known that cases of ill-treatment of animals, particularly horses, are common in our country, which has evidently caused huge social alarm. Severe malnutrition, death by exhaustion, efforts that are not capable or inanision are usual examples. Calling the authorities, the answer is always the same: «We are bound by hands, we have no law». If it were a pet it would be a crime, but being a horse or a pig, it can already be free assaults, motivated for any reason or no reason. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that we are not talking about ending anachronistic activities such as bulldozers or hunting. [[Laughs and protests from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] The neighbouring Spain has had precisely this same punishment since 1995 and has all these activities. So what prevents us from giving this civilizational leap unless the voice of our conscience and indifference toward animal suffering? Today, we have heard that the response to the fight against free violence is in awareness rather than in criminal protection, as if the Criminal Code were an unnecessary and useless legal tool. Awareness-raising is not enough, awareness-raising does not prevent animal hunger, it does not stop beating animals in the public square, as it is still happening today. That is why, in this House, the crimes of ill-treatment and abandonment of pets have been unanimously approved. Let us therefore be coherent and intellectually honest, because it suffers both a pet, as an animal destined for any other purpose, regardless of the purpose for which it is detained. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] We well know that the Penal Code is an instrument of prevention and censorship of behaviors that attack the essential values of society and that it is itself the corollary of those values. It is regrettable that we have to remember the importance of criminal protection in order to safeguard free violence, because damaging an inanimate thing can never have more criminal dignity than mistreating a living being in our country. In fact, it is in fact an unacceptable schizophrenia of values that may well have unconstitutional repercussions, as has been warned by the most authorized doctrine, as is the case of the illustrious criminalist Prof. Dr. Quintela de Brito, also heard in this House on this matter. We must not fail to point out any other positions which have been taken here today, as is the case with the Liberal Initiative, which stated very clearly that only pets have dignity and deserve criminal protection. Keep the record for the future. On the other hand, we leave a challenge to the PCP: since they are so committed to animal protection, they can begin by giving the example by carrying out municipal sterilization campaigns in the municipalities that are under your management. next to the PCP appears the ENP saying that this is a retrogression. [[PCP and ENP protests.]] That is to say, we are all very progressive, we are very shocked at the crimes committed against animals, but when the time comes to take a position, we turn our backs on the victims of these crimes and leave everything in it, ensuring total impunity for those who care about the life of conscious living beings. It is clear that with this NAP proposal, unfortunately, all other activities that are legitimate by law are safeguarded. In conclusion, what we cannot forget, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is true that animals at this time should be given a right — quoting the words of the illustrious Prof. Fernando Araújo — which was the right to exist and to live in peace. But since this is not possible, unless we know how to recognize them the right not to be abused or abused.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u106	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u107	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. To deny this right — the right not to be abused — and to allow this violence in our society is to deny human dignity and to deny the humanitarian values by which we should be guided.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u108	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u109	Recognizing the rights of animals is raising the fascia of our society and at nothing minimizes the value of human rights. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u110	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate, the first point of which was set by the NAP. We also have a second point, without time for debate, on Bill No. 1011 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Extension for the year 2022 of the exceptional and temporary regime of the exercise of early voting rights for voters who are in compulsory confinement under the COVID-19 pandemic, and voters resident in similar residential structures and structures, making the third amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2020 of 11 November. Let us therefore take part in the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We have 207 ladies and gentlemen. Members registered. I hope that everyone who hasn't registered will do so immediately, because I'm going to put an end to the possibility of electronic recording for quorum. I ask the services to show us the electronic record I just mentioned. [[Pause.]] They're 207, sir. Members who have been registered, so we will now proceed to the vote. We begin with the Vote Project No 698 / XIV / 3. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Celso Augusto Baptista dos Santos. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last November 3, 2021, 81 years old, Celso Augusto Baptista dos Santos, militant of the CDS-PP and prominent democratic-Christian author in the political history of Aveiro district. Natural of Pena Verde, in Aguiar da Beira, district of Guarda, Celso Augusto Baptista dos Santos was a good man, recognized by all, having throughout his life developed an active and solidarity work of citizenship, in an exemplary exercise of life and creation of friends, publicly recognized for his dedication to the public cause and his fellow citizens. Prof. Celso Santos has developed his professional life in the area of education, assuming various responsibilities at the level of school management. It remains forever connected to the municipality of Aveiro, land that adopted as its own and where it lived much of its 81 years of life. Elected on the CDS-PP lists, he served as a councillor for nine years and later succeeded Girão Pereira as President of the Aveiro City Council, from 1994 to 1997. He also served in Aveiro and Murtosa, in particular that of the managing director of the Association of Municipalitys of Ria, from 1998 to May 2002, among other functions of relevant public interest, in public institutions and non-profit private associations, having received formal recognition in 2003 with the award of the Municipal Merit Medal, in silver. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Celso Augusto Baptista dos Santos, transmitting to his family, friends and the entire municipal community of Aveiro the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u112	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. They are family members of the deceased present in the gallery, so I also use them to present my feelings. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I now ask Mrs. Secretary-General Sofia Araújo to read the Vote Project No. 699 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN ) — Regret of the death of Rui Oliveira and Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u113	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « He died last November 9, at 73 years old, Rui Oliveira and Costa, figure that stood out publicly for a multifaceted journey, ranging from unionism to politics, passing through polls and connecting to sports. In the political-party field, Rui Oliveira and Costa was appointed to the Assembly of the Republic in the III and IV legislatures, elected on the PPD / PSD lists, and member of the National Commission of this party from 1978 to 1986. Later, he would join the Socialist Party, having been a member of his National Commission, from 1989 to 2008. It also incorporated the honor committees of the presidential candidatures of Mário Soares, in 1986 and 1991, and of Jorge Sampaio, in 1996 and 2001. As an author, he served as mayor of the City Council of Six, between 1998 and 2001. In the political-social field, Rui Oliveira and Costa has been a member of the National Secretariat of UGT since its first Congress and member of the Economic and Social Council and the Permanent Commission for Social Consultation. Deep knowledge of the political and social reality of the country, which was not alien to its activity as administrator and technical manager of the Eurosoundage, Rui Oliveira and Costa was also distinguished in the political and sports commentary. He was the author of the book Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic - Proposal for the Configuration of Uninominal Circles, having taught Political Science and International Relations, at Lusophona University. Rui Oliveira and Costa was a gentle man, with a great joy of living, whose lack will be felt by all who have deprived him. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of Rui Oliveira and Costa, conveying to its family and friends the most deeply sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u114	Thank you very much, Secretary Sofia Araújo. Several members of the family of Rui Oliveira and Costa are present in the gallery. I wanted to greet them all and especially their two children, who have been my friends and friends of my family for many years. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall continue with the votes. We generally vote for Bill No. 1011 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Extension for the year 2022 of the exceptional and temporary regime of the exercise of early voting rights for voters who are in compulsory confinement under the COVID-19 pandemic, and voters resident in similar residential structures and structures, making the third amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2020 of 11 November. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on the same Bill No 1011 / XIV/ 3 shall be followed in the speciality. a ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the overall final vote of Bill No. 1011 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ), which will have to be an electronic vote. I ask the services to prepare this electronic vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u115	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u116	Mr Marcos Perestrello, we are in the middle of a vote! Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u117	Yes, Mr President, but it was to inform me that my terminal has already shut down several times and I cannot register electronically. So it's to say I'm present.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u118	The honourable Member was unable to register electronically because he arrived when the electronic registrations were closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u119	Mr President, that is not true! Mr President sees each Member as an opponent and that is not what is happening. The system has shut down four times, Mr. President! [[Congratulations from PS, PSD and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u120	We will continue, with the overall final vote of Bill No. 1011 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Extension for the year 2022 of the exceptional and temporary regime of the exercise of early voting rights for voters who are in compulsory confinement under the COVID-19 pandemic, and voters resident in similar residential structures and structures, making the third amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2020 of 11 November. [[Subject to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the Members present, having been approved unanimously, with 209 votes in favour (PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and Members not enrolled Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira).]] Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u121	Mr President, to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies concerning this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u122	All right, Mr. Deputies. If there is no opposition from any parliamentary group, this will be done. [[Pause.]] I turn to Vice-President Editi Estrela, whom I thank and ask for the vote to be followed up. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u123	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We will continue with the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 118 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) — Change the rates provided for in the Single Circulation Tax Code and extend the measures to support road transport provided for in the Staff Regulations of Tax Benefits. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u124	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u125	Mrs Bebiana Cunha asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u126	To inform you that we will present a written statement of vote on this vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u127	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote in general on Bill No 999 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) — Recognizes and regulates the figure of the Community animal, reduces the claim period for unidentified animals collected in the CROs and assigns it to the State for the sterilization programmes of errant or Community animals, making the first amendment to Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August to the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October 2001 to the second amendment to Decree-Law No 82 / 2019 of 27 June and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the one hand, who are sitting or then leave the Chamber, since such a movement makes it difficult to see the Bureau in relation to the indications of the sense of vote, and on the other hand, to be careful to express the vote in due course. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 999 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN, ENP, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD Member Carlos Eduardo Reis, votes against PSD, CDS-PP and 5 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Moreira Testa and Pedro do Carmo) and abstentions from PCP and CH.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u128	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u129	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u130	Madam President, it is to inform the Bureau that Mr Pedro Pinto and I have voted in favour of Bill No 999 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN). [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u131	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on an application by the NAP to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees without a vote of 15 days from the Bill No 1001 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Extends criminal protection to all vertebrate animals by amending the Criminal Code to the fifty-fourth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u132	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u133	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u134	Mr President, according to the NAP requirement we have, the diploma is low to the Commission within 30 days and not 15 days. I would therefore like you to clarify that question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u135	The honourable Member is right, but in the meantime, the Bureau has been informed that the deadline has been changed to 15 days. Regardless of what information each person has, we shall vote on the request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 514 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( PCP ) — Establishs a national animal sterilization campaign in 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on a request submitted by the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, who has been discharged from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote of 15 days from the Bill No 1015 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Penal Code, extending criminal protection to all vertebrate animals. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1408 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Catch of bivalves in the Tejo estuary. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PS, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We then vote on draft resolution No 1081 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — For the prohibition of hunting on walled land and for the inclusion of measures for the conservation of biodiversity in the kinetic ordering. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u136	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u137	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u138	Madam President, it's for rectification. For our time, in the Bill No. 514 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which has already been voted on earlier, we abstained when we wanted to have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u139	Do not change the final result.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u140	It does not change, but, in any case, it is recorded, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u141	Yes, it is recorded, Mr. Deputies. We will vote for draft resolution No. 1082/ XIV/2. a (BE) — By implementing measures promoting transparency in the hunting sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1129 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — For greater protection of public health and animals in hunting. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1167 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the work protection of informal caregivers. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — confers the nature of the executive title on the final decisions of the Act and amends the procedural regime applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September 2009. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 165 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Reduction in the age of reform of people with disabilities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and PS and PSD abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 588 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of access to reform for people with disabilities. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and PS, PSD and BE abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 590 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Anticipation of the age of reform of disabled workers. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and PS, PSD and BE abstentions.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 617 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Special scheme for access to early retirement for people with disabilities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and PS and PSD abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1480 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a video surveillance system in the forest. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u142	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u143	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u144	Madam President, to inform the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u145	Be registered. The vote on draft resolution No 823 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — The urgent and comprehensive modernisation of the West Line. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are warning me that there is a mistake in the services when they have indicated in the vote script that this diploma is lower than 6. the Commission, which is not the case. We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on draft resolution No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Temporary stabilization of small-scale and small-scale fishing and aquaculture. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PAN and IL and the abstention of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolution No 95 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Programme to defend the fishing of the fence and its professionals. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, the NAP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolution No 1389 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the recognition and award of a professional status to the Maritime Fisheries Observer. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, IL, ENP and CH.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budget and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 94 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Review of the Securities Code. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP, and abstentions against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u146	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u147	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u148	Madam President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u149	Be registered. We then vote in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 1481 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ) — Established October 20 as the National Accessibility Day and 1491 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends the creation of National Accessibility Day. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 480 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with urgent work at IC2 — Oliveira de Azemés — that they definitely resolve the sinality of that structural route to the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés, 501 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent realization of works in the CI2 — Oliveira de Azemés and 1344 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Requalification works in the CI2, in the section serving and crossing the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés, in order to improve the quality of the route and reduce sinequality. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 90 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government promote the cohesion of the Algarve through the rescue of the grant and requalification of the parts of EN125 between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António, 234 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the urgent completion of the re-qualification works of EN125 and 1388 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the launch of the requalification works of EN125 and involving municipalities in monitoring the management and maintenance of EN125. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the IL.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 949 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Adaptation of the rules of access to the APOIAR measure to companies that continue to work, 970 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government amend the rules of the programmes Support + simple and support incomes and 1051 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends that the Government extend the Programme to support individual enterprises and entrepreneurs who have been excluded from the measures of that programme. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, on draft resolutions Nos 822 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By requalifying the whole Douro Line ( Ermesinde-Barca d’ Alva and subsequent connection to Salamanca ), 834 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Requalification and operation of the Douro Line ( Ermesinde - Barca d’ Alva ) and subsequent connection to Salamanca, 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the modernization and electrification of the Douro Line to Barca d’ Alva and the replacement of its connection with the Spanish railway network, 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By requalification and reopening of the Douro Line to Barca d’ Alva and restoration of international rail connection and 986 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — In defense of the Douro Line and by the reaction of the crowds. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs Sofia Araújo will now report on two opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u150	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Judge of General Competition of Heads of Basto, Case No 142 / 15.8T8CBC-C, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided not to authorize Mr Joaquim Barreto ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u151	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u152	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro, Judge of Criminal Instruction of Santa Maria da Feira — Judge 2, Case No 2718 / 18.2T9VFR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Moisés Ferreira (BE) to intervene in the field of these cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u153	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u154	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u155	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u156	It is only to inform you that I was present at the vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u157	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Sofia Araújo has the floor to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u158	Mr President, they entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 1018 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) and the Proposal for Law No 119 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-12.u159	We're at the end of our agenda. The next plenary session will take place on November 17, Wednesday, at 3 p.m., with the discussion, at the first point, of Bill No. 1014 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme for the protection and support of tenants and in the second point of the Proposal for a Law No 119 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) — Regulation of the application of special contributions for the year 2022. There may be a vote at the end of the debate. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 36 minutes.]]
