ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, let's start the plenary. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The order of work today comprises a legislative agenda, which is required together by the Parliamentary Groups of the PS and the PAN, on the basis of the Bills Nos 577 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves the Basics of Climate Policy Act, 131 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Climate Base Act, 446 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the basis of climate policy and action, 526 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Climate Policy Framework Act, 578 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Climate Base Act, 598 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Climate Base Act, 605 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Defines the foundations of climate policy and 609 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Basic law of climate policy. To begin this debate, Mr Hugo Pires of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u2	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u3	Certainly to support the opinion of the Bureau, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u4	It is another matter, Mr President. I would like to make the following request to the Bureau: in the framework of the legislative votes we held at the end of last year there is a diploma with some urgency, which allows the holding of meetings of the bodies of the authorities by video conferencing, the Bill No. 594 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Extends until 30 June 2021 the deadline for distance communication by means of meetings of local authorities and intermunicipal authorities, by amending Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March adopting exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease CVID-19. With regard to this initiative, I would like to request the waiver of the deadline for complaints, which must be made in plenary, and at the time it was not. This was the end of my appeal, because there is some urgency in which the diploma can continue to promulgate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u5	If no one opposes you, it will be done. We must therefore vote on the exemption from the deadline for complaints concerning Bill No 594 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which has just been requested by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the ENP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Now, yes, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Pires, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A country alone is not able to solve the scourge we live in in climate. We all know that international cooperation and commitment between nations to combat climate change are crucial to our victory over this battle. There is no point in adopting mitigation and adaptation measures if nothing is done about this in another country or in another region of the globe. That is why the Paris Agreement is so important, in view of a global compromise. This month we celebrate the five years of this historic agreement, that commitment between nations, but this is also the month in which the United States of America, an essential country to climate balance, will return to the Paris Agreement, after the possession of its elected President. In Europe, things are different, for the better, for the better. The fight against climate change is even to take seriously and the climate and digital transition are at the heart of the priorities of a social Europe. Portugal affirms in this context as a country of avant-garde, which is ahead of its time and that according to a report by the European Commission itself, it is in a better position to meet the 2030 mid-term goals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So far, we have managed to reduce 26 % of our carbon emissions and 60 % of the electricity we consume is already produced through renewable sources. In addition, in 2019, Portugal was able to grow above the European average while reducing carbon emissions, also above the European average, in a clear proof that it is possible to create wealth, generate employment and move towards carbon neutrality. But there's still a long way to go. No one would forgive us, as political decision makers, if we did not do our part to prevent global warming from making life on the planet unsustainable. No one would forgive us if we did not do our part to fight the freezing and rising waters of the sea, which, if continued at this rate, in 2040, 650 million people will have to leave the places where they live. In this respect, Portugal will be one of the countries most affected by this phenomenon, if we continue on this path. No one would forgive us if we continued to allow our oceans to be a garbage dump. In fact, yesterday it was reported a wave of plastics that reached a beach in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. No one would forgive us if we did not stop air pollution, which already causes about 7,000 premature deaths per year in Portugal. And no one would forgive us if Portugal did not preserve its biodiversity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was urgent that the Socialist Party, together with the NAP, took the initiative to schedule this debate to present its climate-based law, an ambitious, courageous and socially just project. It is ambitious because it aims to wager in a greener, higher economy, which creates wealth and jobs and which, at the same time, is more sustainable and less polluting. In fact, in a recent study, we learned that for every million euros invested in renewable energy, three times more jobs or jobs are created in relation to those who would be created if that same investment were made in fossil energy. In order to achieve this design, we define goals, trace goals, create strategies and instruments for the different sectors of the economy and society, with the ultimate objective of achieving carbon neutrality in 2050. But this is also a courageous project because, despite being a path that has to be done with everyone, inclusively, it will probably face some resistance to change, whether in the Public Administration, industry, transport, electro-producer system, waste, agriculture or the behaviour of citizens. But these changes cannot leave anyone behind, because there are no decent societies without social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Combating energy poverty, supporting the most vulnerable and those with the most difficulties, or giving priority to retraining of workers whose jobs have been eliminated or transformed by decarbonisation are subjects to which this law of the PS bases gives the greatest attention. But if social justice is a very important matter of our project, territorial cohesion also deserves our attention, providing for an integrated public transport network, consisting of low-carbon vehicles, which connects the whole country, in a clear sign that for PS, Portugal is not only Porto and Lisbon. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live today with a pandemic that, if everything goes well and runs as expected, will be controlled in the coming months. The same can no longer be said of the climate threat we live in, because it is an existential threat to the planet, to our own lives and to the lives of our children and our grandchildren. It's time we were all together in this fight, because, more than an ideological fight, it's a fight for our survival. This climate law must be our commitment to the environment and to future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u7	To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change is the biggest problem humanity faces. The species that is self-intelligent is the one that is creating all the conditions to extinguish in the short term, resulting from the way it behaves and relates to the planet. Today is the first day of the most important discussions for the environment and for future generations. Seven years is the time we have to avoid the so-called non-return point. It's the time we're missing, it's the time we have to act. And the clock keeps going. The health crisis has shown that our relationship with nature is unsustainable and exposes us to health hazards and the economic costs that affect life as we know it. Over the five years that passed from the Paris Agreement and with all the commitments made, the concentration of greenhouse gases increased from 402 to 415 parts per million. From the 430 parts per million, we will have an average increase of the global temperature of 2 °C, the point of non-return, from which the planet enters a new climate state, a state that, according to scientists, will cause a reduction in precipitation and an increase in drought periods, desertification, sea level rise, with the submersion of coastal areas, extreme phenomena more intense and unpredictable, such as floods and hurricanes, or the spread of diseases. The non-return point marks the beginning of a cascade of negative effects on the planet in the following years, such as mass extinction of current life forms, including human species. Scientists estimate that about 88% of the world's population will not survive. This is not science fiction, it is the reality for which we have been walking from here to seven years if, as political decision makers, we continue to do nothing. It's time to act! The year 2020 was the hottest since there was registration, confirming the unstoppable sequence of successive temperature records for the hottest years ever. The manifestation of these climate transformations was not left by the fires in Australia, but also by the absolute memories of hurricanes in the Atlantic, with six large dimensions. In Siberia, 25 oCs were reached in May and at the beginning of June were 30 oCs above the Arctic Circle, accelerating the meltdown of permanent ice. All this reveals, once again, how climate models have sinned by excessive moderation in the scenarios. And while the planet melts, the order is to recover the economy by increasing consumption, to scale GDP (gross domestic product), all without environmental counterpart, without looking at the elephant drowning in the room. In the face of all the opportunities that knowledge and science give us to stop climate collapse, governments always choose the wrong path, which is exactly what is happening in the paths outlined for the so-called "recovery", which aspires to nothing less than to resume the path to disaster. Portugal will be one of the most affected European countries by climate change. Scientists are told that below parallel 40, which in Portugal is in Figueira da Foz, the territories will be uninhabitable. Again, I repeat: it is time to act! And when I say to act it is not about saving the planet, because for good and for evil it will continue here — Venus and Pluto exist — yes, it is about saving mankind. At seven years from the point of no return, he cannot hear the government aligning with world leaders and proclaiming excellent intentions to achieve carbon neutrality within 30 years, expressed on a mere road without binding character and which can at any time be challenged by political cycle changes, as we have unfortunately seen with the rise to the power of negationists such as Trump or Bolsonaro. Commitment intentions and declarations do not reduce emissions, do not stop the clock, do not save humanity. Time is scarce and only strong actions can change the current climate emergency context. Portugal has an obligation to adopt an ambitious and unparalleled climate law in our legal order, a key guiding and structuring instrument for this and the next governments in their actions, which ensures that climate policy is based on science and knowledge. This is essentially for three reasons: because it has to follow international efforts to reduce emissions, because it has to prepare itself to minimize the impacts of climate change on the territory and the population and why it has to do so in an economically effective and transparent way. In the background, mitigation, adaptation and investment. The law of the NAP climate is the way. With this law there is the guarantee that our country defends ambitious positions for reducing emissions at international level, because it guarantees the establishment of binding targets for reducing emissions and defines specific action plans to achieve them in the energy, transport, waste, agriculture, livestock and forest sectors. With this law, the NAP wants the Government, the Assembly of the Republic and citizens to know, according to different climate scenarios, what will happen on the coast, water resources, average temperatures and soils. That is, we will finally have a climate risk atlas. Only with this instrument can we have the information that allows us to initiate a proper planning exercise of the planning of the territory and then of the investments. at the same time that the country loses time to discuss works that degrade ecosystems, such as Montijo airport, it remains unknown how much the country will have to invest to deal with the effects of climate change, because that, purely and simply, was not and is not a priority for the government. When the World Bank tells us that we should spend EUR 147 million per year on climate change adaptation actions in 2020, the government devoted only EUR 1 million, while offering more than EUR 500 million in subsidies and tax bills to oil products. With this law we want to reverse this path. The law of the NAP is the way because, instead of a closed circuit logic of the ministerial offices, if you want a fight against climate challenges with the involvement of citizens and civil society, with the creation of an independent committee composed of experts from the academy and civil society, which will report exclusively to the Assembly of the Republic, for the assessment of compliance by the Government with the actions defined in the law. But let us come to a concrete example of what will allow the implementation of the law of climate, presented by the NAP. The flood cartography and coastal vulnerability tell us that vast coastal areas will be flooded and we know, for example, that within a few years the area of Montijo airport will be submerged, as well as several housing areas, for example, in Aveiro, Costa da Caparica or Faro. in this example, the government will soon have to deliver an action plan that foresees how it will relocate the affected populations, at all costs, how it will finance and when it starts and ends the works. in the same way, knowing that in 2050 the Montijo airport area will be flooded, it will choose not to build the airport in Montijo. This plan will be approved by the Assembly of the Republic and by the Committee of Experts. Then, annually, both the Committee of Experts and the Assembly of the Republic will check whether the government is executing what it is bound to do. This is an example of consistent environmental policy, with fewer proclamations and more action. With the approval of the NAP climate law, citizens acquire rights that allow them to interfere in public decision-making processes on climate. Another key issue for which this law aims to contribute is climate justice, through support for countries with less technical and financial capacity to reduce their own emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change. Portugal, as a developed country, has a climate debt towards other more vulnerable peoples and has to contribute to the responses to the hundreds of millions of climate refugees that will emerge in the coming years. We cannot accept putting the world into climate apartheid, in which the rich pay to escape overheating, hunger and conflict, while the rest of the world suffers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, seven years is the time we have to avoid the point of no return. We knew how to stand up and put ourselves on the right side, at this historic moment. A broad consensus in Parliament is essential for long-term climate sustainability, which is achieved only by a climate law that sets out the rules and the destination of the path we want, which is intra- and inter-generationally just, supported by scientific knowledge, comprehensive, technological and fiscally neutral application, based on collaboration between countries and the internalisation of environmental damage.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u9	We will move on to the stage of requests for clarification regarding these last two interventions. You have the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group Mr Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u10	Mr President, Mr Hugo Pires, in fact, to solve the problem of the ecological and energy transition underlying climate change we have to create jobs. Mr President, in fact, you put this priority in your speech, but the problem is when we are going to see reality and we see that the protected areas in Portugal are the worst in Europe, because they have no one to take care of them, when we look at Galp, in Matosinhos, and for the decision of this company, with great profits, to fire a lot of workers, when we see that, in Sines, in the center of coal, many workers, direct and indirect, will go without employment. So the question is very obvious. In accordance with the stated principle, reality shows that government activity is different. What measures does the Socialist Party take to reverse this path and to ensure that response to climate change is a process of job creation and redistribution of wealth? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u11	How does the PS Member want to respond to requests for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u12	Mr President, I would like to respond to all requests for clarification at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u13	You also have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Hugo Pires, Mr André Silva, today is an important day because politics in this area is usually accused of keeping the word, but today we have the opportunity to honour a commitment we have to the Portuguese – the PSD also has this commitment – and to present a basic law for climate policy. The overwhelming majority of Parliament also shares this commitment and therefore this cannot be a debate polluted by the traditional attack on the past, by the traditional propaganda or even by the negationists who sometimes sit here too. We have a large external debt in Portugal, but we also have a large accumulation of climate deficits that today also generate a large climate debt, whose interest is already there, and we are already paying them. The PSD has been very committed to the attack on climate change, having reformed electrical mobility, legislated on renewable production, on green taxation and, later on, on the Environmental Bases Act. Today, we have a great challenge, which is to take advantage of technology to decarbonize, to electrify, to change consumption, to change the country, to offer people a vision that Portugal can be new, different, greener, can have an economy in which people participate, with companies, with investment. Portugal cannot expect to change consumption or whatever it is taxing everything and does not encourage anything. Portugal cannot expect to have a place in this new economy if it is not a private investment friendly country, if it is not a climate change friendly country, if it is not a country that wants investment, green employment or value added. This law cannot therefore be a set of more rules that we will impose on people and businesses to then leave them without an alternative and have to do everything in it. It must be an important turning point for a different, intergenerational economy that transforms investment, that combines sustainability with price and, above all, with reporting and transparency mechanisms, because what cannot be measured cannot be improved either. It has to be a basic law worthy of that name. On what we have to do in climate matters, of course we cannot choose one measure as an alternative to another, we have to do all of them and, for that, we have to work together. The question I leave is the following: are the PS and the PAN available to do a job, in particular, that gives Portugal a worthy foundation law and through which we can say that it is a country where climate change is being fought, both here and here for the rest of the world? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u15	Mr André Silva, who wishes to put a question to the Socialist Party Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u16	Mr President, Mr Hugo Pires, the PS legislative initiative is well worth it, but let me tell you that in the fight against climate change, we cannot have the sun in the air and rain in the nabal. In the fight against climate change with a horizon of not returning for seven years, we cannot, in our view, have such a large moratorium, as the Socialist Party is proposing, to eliminate perverse subsidies — support, benefits and exemptions from oil products. It's excessive! Therefore, our proposal points to 2022 as the end of this elimination and your point to 10 years, which is excessive. I ask you if the Socialist Party reconsiders, in view of the data of knowledge and science, to withdraw this period in a significant way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u17	In reply, Mr Hugo Pires of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Deputies Nelson Peralta, Hugo Carvalho and André Silva. I would like to say yes, that this discussion we are discussing today is, above all, more than an ideological discussion; it is a discussion, as I have just said in the rostrum, for our survival and for the future of our children and for the generations to come. We realize that this change also requires some pain and, for example, the Left Block has to decide whether it is in favour of closing a refinery. We have planned the Fund for a Just Transition, which provides for EUR 200 million, to train workers who have worked in polluting businesses and economic sectors, so that these people are requalified to have new jobs, probably also in renewable energy sectors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the Left Block has to decide which side it is on: whether it is on the side of the energy transition and also of support for workers with this Fund for a Just Transition, or whether it wants everything to remain in it. We don't want everything to be the same and that's our difference. In fact, I recall that, a few weeks ago, we had a discussion about the increase in the waste rate and that the Left Block also pushed it forward, when the issue of waste is one of the biggest problems we have in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u20	So you shot her to October, probably because we have an actual election in September. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to go in here, because I think that this debate should have an extended consensus today, but I was forced to do so and draw attention to your contradictions. With regard to the PSD, I fully agree with Mr Carvalho's comments here and with his ambitions. He had some lapses and some memory failures and said that the PSD was the party that printed the electric mobility in Portugal. The PSD put in the drawer the project for electric mobility in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD put in the drawer the project for renewable energy so necessary for the energy transition and the PSD voted against the PART(Programa de Auxido à Reduction Tarifária nos Transport Publices), the social pass that contributes so much to the decarbonization of our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore agree with most of Mr Deputies' speech, there are only a few shortcomings and I would like to restate some truth. Mr André Silva, yes, we are willing, in the discussion in the specialty, to review these goals for tax benefits for fossil fuels and I think we can already anticipate that we will be available to reduce to half...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u21	For the start of the conversation. All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u22	Yes, for start-up conversation, we are available to reduce tax incentives for fossil energy from 10 to 5 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u23	You now have the floor for a request to clarify Mr André Silva, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and all the people who follow us, it is very good to be discussing bills today from almost all parties on the climate emergency we live on a new climate-based law that is a tool for climate and social justice. I say almost all parties because, with the exception of the PSD, the right has not submitted any proposal, which says much about the importance that the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival give to the greatest challenge humanity faces at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u26	We now understand that climate stability is a necessary condition for the maintenance of biogeochemical cycles that allow not only human civilization as we know it, but the survival of our own species in the Earth system. It is currently consensual that the climate crisis was caused by the current socio-economic model, which caused the excessive increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, resulting both in the burning of fossil fuels, as well as in the destruction of forests and marine ecosystems at planetary level, but also national. The proposal presented by the NAP is part of these assumptions. It is scientifically based and sets goals to achieve the essential carbon neutrality, although not as ambitious as those presented by the Block in its proposal. The NAP project also meets the ideas of the Left Block in the relevance attributed to education, either in a school context, or in the awareness of the general population for environmental citizenship, as tools to combat inequalities. But it should not be neglected that the production and marketing system should take on its deep responsibilities in achieving the climate transition. The NAP proposal, such as that of PS and PSD, does not include any reference to the need to protect environmental and climate activists. The Left Block considers it essential that, in view of the scenario experienced in Portugal in recent years, particularly the judicial attacks to which it bravely led the fight against pollution, particularly in the Tejo River and its tributaries, mechanisms for protection and support for environmentalists are ensured. Such measures are required by non-governmental environmental associations and even by European directives. We have the support of the NAP for this proposal from the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u27	In reply, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u28	Mr President, Mr Hugo Carvalho, of the PSD, of course we are available to discuss all aspects of this law in the specialty. I congratulate the Democratic Social Party for presenting an initiative on this issue, which is fundamental and which tells the new generations so much, being a design of our times. I would like to comment on just one aspect of your speech: we have no prejudice to private investment that needs to be done in combating climate change, particularly in terms of mitigation and adaptation. But what the PSD project does not have, as the Socialist Party does not have, with regard to investment, are cost-effectiveness criteria in choosing climate policies. It is essential that we be able to play a role and put this in the field of expertise, as the NAP has planned. Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, I welcome the Block on the Left for the presentation of the legislative initiative on this subject too. Yes, I agree with you. In fact, it is unthinkable and one cannot see how the CDS and the Liberal Initiative do not come "to play" with a proposal to solve the great problem of humanity, the design of our times. You can't really get it. Regarding the goals of the NAP, which are not as exhaustive as those of the Left Block, I want to recall the following: if, on the one hand, they may not be as exhaustive, those of the NAP are binding and those of the Left Block are not. In the process of specialization, we can make this approach and find the best of both proposals. With regard to the very important issue that has brought about the protection of activists and environmentalists who are often persecuted, we fully agree. We are working on this in another separate initiative, which we are going to present in the next few days, which is the complainant's status.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u29	Let us now enter the stage of presenting the various bills, the PCP, the Greens, the Left Block, the PSD and the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. In the end, we will, as now, proceed with the requests for clarification. Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP Parliamentary Group has the floor to submit Bill No. 446 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Discussing climate action and the great environmental issues of our time is as demanding as urgent as identifying causes for phenomena, identifying effective solutions and facing interests, not forgetting the denunciation of the instrumentalization of environmental issues to impose agendas other than the interest of the planet and humanity. If it is clear that the impacts of human action on the environmental balance did not begin with capitalism, it is also obvious that disturbance in the unprecedented man-medium metabolism introduced by the capitalist mode of production. The environmental problem — and indeed, the problem of humanity — is the problem of resources, in this case, of their use, which, in a dominant capitalism at the global level, is not oriented towards meeting needs and well-being but, rather, towards maximizing profit, creating needs and unbridled use of resources. Constant reproduction of capital affects not only lives and human rights, but also nature, contradictions that result in a process that needs to be stopped. Earth's renewal time is far too out of date that the socio-economic model imposes. That is why we did not spread out or rehabilitate the system in this debate. Capitalism is not, nor will it be, green. And if doubts remain, it is enough to say that only 100 economic groups are responsible for 70% of global emissions. But being the mode of production that we are responsible for the destruction of nature, it is also necessary to point out objectives in the short and medium term. That is why we urgently need a turn. We need a new law on the basis of the environment and climate action. The proposal we bring in aims to intervene at different fundamental levels at present, from the need for a real limitation of greenhouse emissions and other pollutants, without the allocation of marketable and unfunded licences, and a fair environmental accounting, which takes account of the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and a fair distribution of efforts to achieve it, by sectors and countries, where each economic agent actually reduces them with technologically more efficient and appropriate processes. The country must oppose speculation mechanisms that do not solve the problem, and even, as we have seen in the European Trade in Emission Licences, that they are very proud, that they contribute in the opposite direction, and must be struck by a specific policy, by goals and objectives not crystallized to our country, which evolve with knowledge and potentials at every moment. It is necessary to reduce the dependence of fossil fuels, which currently meet 85 % of the world's energy needs, with public alternatives and increased energy efficiency, without giving in to alternatives such as agrofuels. The urgency of economic planning is inevitable, equating the essential sectors according to the needs of the people and the country, promoting the development of agriculture and industry according to criteria of public interest and consequently environmental and the resumption of public control of the essential sectors, in particular an essential sector for this task, the energy sector. It is necessary to promote more balanced planning and distribution in the territory, so that it has an organization that contributes to a rational use of resources and to the transition from the individual transport paradigm to collective transport. We must evaluate the needs of products, goods and services, combating the planned obsolescence and prolonging the durability of equipment and infrastructure. It is urgent to defend local production, shorten production-consumer cycles and stop the liberalisation of world trade, stimulater of long chains of distribution of an overwhelming energy consumption and factor of aggravation of inequalities. The defence of natural, terrestrial and marine ecosystems cannot be postponed, and the recovery of degraded ecosystems, also for their role as sewers. We must therefore have a policy of preserving natural resources and environmental values without the appropriation of them by economic groups. It is vital to combat the mercantilization of water and the deresponsibility of the State to defend nature and the environment. The new foundations of environmental policy must promote genuine democratic participation, with the involvement of the people in defining public policies at global and regional levels, such as genuine environmental education. We must never forget that the fight for peace is part of the fight for the environment, because war, militarism and the arms industry are of the most polluting phenomena that exist. It is not by chance that the very conceptualization of the eco-crime is precisely linked to the total destruction caused by the use of napalm by the United States in Vietnam. These are the objectives and lines of the PCP for a law on the basis of the environment and climate action. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have discussed eight proposals for climate-based legislation. Since the ecological crisis itself is a consequence of social and economic relations, it is not above politics. Therefore, solutions and political views will be quite different. The environmental situation in our country is characterized by a lack of integrated strategic vision, with the privatization of key sectors, such as energy or waste, with the progressive marketing of nature and public services for the treatment of poor environmental issues, at the level of the means and the possibility of action. This is the result of choices and choices of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS. One of the distinguishing elements of the CFP proposal is that it does not isolate the issue of the climate of the general environmental policy, because, on the one hand, the environmental law must have the climate issue as a structural issue and, on the other hand, because a segmentation of the approach would be absolutely ineffective. Nor is climate action alien to the environment and resources with which we have, of course, neither soil policies, air, geological, mineral and energy resources, forests, biodiversity, waste treatment and agro-food production can cease to be a structural part of the response to climate change. Any decision, measure or legislative act must be guided by principles which take account of the overall ecological system. There have been no lack of strategies, plans and programmes for mitigation and adaptation to climate change; there are no cross-sectoral visions that break down with economic and financial power. The objectives and lines of the PCP are very different for a law on the basis of the environment and climate action. We do not feed the economic power, we do not serve obscure interests and commercialist views of nature or that ignore cumulative responsibilities, perpetuating the hegemony of one country over another. This is a time that requires us to transform, not to scramble or diminish responsibilities and much less transfer them to the popular layers that have earned nothing with the destruction of nature. The examples are as many as the hypocrisy of many. Will it be honest to tell people to buy green, that the blame is for their consumption, and then create products to have a reduced life span, so they have to be bought again? Oh, my God! Is it fair and serious to put the people to pay fees and taxes, such as plastic bags, then the economic interests speak higher and refuse a proposal, such as that of the PCP, to reduce unnecessary packaging, used only for marketing, in which one product comes with two or three envelopes only to be more desirable? Oh, my God! Does it make sense you can pay to pollute? Oh, my God! Is there a principle to establish that the polluter, if he is a good payer, is absolved? Oh, my God! Is this the green tax? Oh, my God! The same can be said of the European Union's large measure, which Portugal enthusiastically welcomes, of the carbon-emission market. What is the logic, what is the commitment to combating climate change, when emissions and carbon have become a millionaire speculation market, where a company or a country can even come to issue more if they compensate for mining projects—even if harmful—only because they are on the other side of the world? Oh, my God! What is the logic of planting eucalyptus that destroys the native forest and, in spite of sinking, contributes to the interests of the celluloses and even to the fires? Oh, my God! Can a multinational, whose business is centered on oil and gas, such as BP ( British Petroleum ), self-denominate and self-publish 'zero emissions' because it finances plantations in Zambia and stoves in Mexico? Oh, my God! We will accept a discharge of consciousness, by promoting the massive purchase of electric cars within 15 years, as the PS proposes, and pretending that all this is free of environmental problems and is not transforming the world into a rare metal mine? Oh, my God! Are we going to appeal to the end of our country's livestock to import transgenic soybeans from the other side of the world? Oh, my God! Are we going to ignore the existence of agreements and transcontinental treaties that Portugal has signed and that make us care about the most basic products we have here in our backyard? Oh, my God! These are the issues of our time. The environmental crisis is not an inevitable consequence of human history; it is the result of options and the established socio-economic model. That is why the integrated vision of the environment proposed by the CFP is the one that best serves the interests of the people and the country, enabling them to safeguard ecological balance and combat climate change. We do not just propose to make environmentalism like gardening, which is environmentalism without class struggle, such as Chico Mendes, to whom we pay tribute, nicknamed, because it is possible, having will, having courage and facing economic power, hindering the destruction of nature, and this is in the interest of the peoples, as the Portuguese people. It is possible, without acquitting the owners of the world, without putting old men against new and without deepening inequalities, protecting the planet and all life forms. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u31	For the presentation of Bill No 526 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV), Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The negative effects of the climate change process are now feeling a little around the world, being quite visible, fundamentally, the regular, sharp and violent climate extremes. This is nothing for the scientific community to warn long ago, with emphasis on the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which say that, if nothing is done, the 21st century will receive real bitterness, resulting from the increase in the average temperature of the planet, with a more aggressive climate, with the freezing of glaciers, with the increase of sea levels and with the desertification of soils, resulting in loss of useful soil for agriculture, with repercussions on food and the spread of diseases characteristic of tropical climates, among other consequences. In short, the environmental, social and economic impacts are on display and assume enormous seriousness. For our part, we have for many years assumed the fight against climate change, even on our own and subject to criticism of the « Old Rest ». It is urgent to act in two aspects: mitigating climate change, acting on the anthropogenic causes of factors that can accelerate this process, and adapting societies and territory to climate change, eradicating factors of greater vulnerability and generating more resilience. at the international level, obtaining agreements has been difficult, with the countries that most emit greenhouse gases constantly seeking to ease their responsibilities of action, or even unlink themselves, shamefully, of the agreements. The Paris Agreement, signed in December 2015, lays down the urgent need to reduce greenhouse emissions in order to limit the increase in the average temperature of the planet, involving an effort of all States, in particular those that emit gases to the atmosphere, which involve the climate change process. The responsibilities which Portugal assumes at the European Union level this semester require particular attention to these issues. In Portugal, a study was conducted — a SIAM project (Climate Change in Portugal - Scenarios, Impacts and Adaptation Measurements) — that pointed to concerns for various economic sectors and for the national territory related to climate change, revealing, for example, that regions like Alentejo run a risk of desertification and that rising sea levels threaten our coastline. The way is to establish and implement effective mitigation and adaptation measures to achieve the proposed objectives. Portugal is equipped with instruments that govern the political decisions that involve climate issues and impose a cross-section in various government sectors and in society as a whole. However, the Greens consider that, in the framework resulting from the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Basic Law on Environmental Policy, it is useful to create a specific framework law for climate policy setting out the framework of objectives to be pursued and the principles that should guide the way to achieving those objectives. Thus, the bill that The Greens present today aims to contribute to this legislative instrument of enhanced value and that seeks to add the measures of minimisation and adaptation to be adopted. It is intended to promote a strong involvement and participation of citizens, the need not to lose sight of the creation of jobs, a commitment to research and knowledge, the guarantee of information and monitoring system, not forgetting the need for funding investment or the importance of recognizing a relevant role for environmental organisations, especially in encouraging the mobilization of society to contribute effective positive attitudes and behaviours to contain the global warming process. A law of this nature should lead Parliament to generate a broad process of debate and public consultation, where society is effectively involved in its realization, which, taking into account the importance of disseminating information and articulating interests and objectives, is of great importance. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges humanity faces. All human activities depend on ecosystem functions that are severely threatened by increasing temperature and changing climate patterns that are already felt. The truth is that the planet Earth is the common home that we all have to preserve, ensuring the biological diversity it receives and the sustainability of human societies that inhabit it, from the assurance that after this generation others will come, with the right to inhabit, in conditions, the same planet. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u33	For presentation of Bill No. 578 / XIV / 2. the left block has the floor Mr. Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During the two and a half hours of this debate there are 135 million tonnes of ice in the poles. This shows us very well the size of the problem, but also the urgency of the answer. And we know that Portugal is one of the countries where the risks of climate change are highest: rising the average level of seawater, coastal erosion, major fires, droughts and floods will have a huge impact on our lives and on biodiversity. And for those who just want to look at the economy, we also know that Portugal is 10. the country where GDP loss will be highest due to climate change: in 2050 we will lose 2 % of GDP. We therefore need to act now. A good law on the basis of climate should tell where it goes and how it gets there. It is therefore essential that you have goals. And, in view of the urgency we face, these goals can be nothing less than ambitious. This is the proposal that the Left Block here brings, a continuous annual improvement to achieve a 60 % reduction in emissions in 2030 compared with 2005. We also propose that the progress we have made along the way will serve to anticipate the goal and date of climate neutrality and not to licenses to be traded between companies to ensure that companies can continue to issue. As far as the road is concerned, we choose climate justice, job creation and the fight against poverty. To this end, we have established a carbon budget and an adaptation plan, we do not leave the State of its responsibilities. But let's talk about real problems. We were just talking about the need to absorb the workers of the obsolete sectors that will have to close—as in our law—particularly coal plants. We realize that there are parties that do not want to have any solution, just beautiful words. Let us also look at reality. It's cold, we're going through a cold wave. There are people at home who are watching this debate and getting cold. Two million people in Portugal do not have the necessary conditions to warm their homes. So they're cold. So we propose a solution. As long as this reality happens in the lives of the Portuguese, energy companies earn millions of profits. We need the creation of a public renewable energy company to guarantee job creation, to ensure the absorption of workers from obsolete sectors and to ensure that, while the energy transition is being made, energy poverty is also eliminated in the country. We don't leave anyone behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Another essential measure, for climate and social rights, is the bet on public transport and investment in rail. The paradigm of the car shows well the operation of the market and its failure. There is technology for cars to emit less, but the car park now emits more. Why? Simple: companies have grown more so-called « sports utility vehicles », which are heavier, are less aerodynamic and therefore emit more — a major market failure. That is why we need public transport, we need public investment and rail and we need to end the production of fossil fuel powered cars by 2030. We have many other problems to solve: north of the Tagus, our forest is organized as a mine for the production of paper pulp, our protected areas are unprotected, our rivers are treated as simple batteries of electricity, superfluous packaging flood our supermarkets and the culture of the disposable product forces the continuous extraction of resources. in this context, environmental education and behavior change are important and we have several measures to strengthen it. But let us not be deceived: the climate crisis and social inequalities are the result of this economic system rather than individual choices. We do not accept that the concept of polluter-payer is a green way to large companies to pollute more and a big cost in the lives of families. It is the role of this basic law to create alternatives and new ways of doing, more sustainable and just.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u36	There is, of course, an international component in the climate-based law and the Left Block cannot fail to welcome the fact that Donald Trump has been defeated and, finally, the United States can return again to the Paris Agreement. Peace, solidarity, international cooperation, international financing, knowledge-sharing, recognition of historical responsibilities and the status of climate refugees are fundamental cornerstones of humanity and essential to the development of our societies. Only 100 companies are responsible for 71 % of global emissions. In consumption, the top 10 of the richest population is responsible for half of the global emissions. Those who have contributed less to climate change are the ones who suffer the most from their effects: impoverished populations, the populations of the global south and, in particular, women. I conclude by reaffirming the path proposed by the Block: a basic law with ambitious goals, with policies that change the production model to respect the planet, to protect natural resources, to create jobs, to respond to social needs and to combat poverty. We add our voice to the young people who have been on the streets in the international climate strike, who flood the streets with a message of hope and a demand for the future. That's why we have to act now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u37	Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to present the Bill No 598 / XIV / 2. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u38	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Climate policy is an essential tool for the development of a sustainable economy, for the preservation of nature, for the construction of a more just society and, above all, for the improvement of the quality of life of citizens. The evidence of gravity and the rapid evolution of climate change has called on the international community for successive collaboration agreements and for the adoption of structural measures in the economy and society. The European Union — which elected the fight against climate change as one of the priority objectives of its work and reflecting the approval of the first European Climate Law — has assumed the role of driving the international response to the climate crisis through the European Ecological Pact, the Green Deal, which points to Europe as the first climate-neutral continent in 2050. The evidence shows that Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union that will be most affected by the effects of climate change—in coastal erosion, in the risk of rising seawater and in the fullness, in desertification and in fires—which requires effective public policies, responsible and capable of ensuring the transversality and interdependence of these areas. Our duty and responsibility to create and implement effective policies and instruments for adaptation and mitigation of climate change are therefore inalienable. We must act with the urgency and firmness that the situation demands and deserves. in a context of particular complexity resulting from the pandemic crisis, it is important to reflect this dimension with a view to promoting, on the one hand, a conscious citizenship committed to the adoption of sustainable behaviors and, on the other hand, a public administration focused on combating climate change. Climate change does not know ages, gender, ideologies or borders. They are a global problem that calls for action by all, under the penalty of being compromised by the future of our planet. The draft climate law presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group seeks to give a concrete and objective response to the great challenges we face in this area, complementing the existing environmental legal framework in Portugal, which includes the water, sanitation and waste sectors, energy, air, noise, coastal and biodiversity sectors. It is a draft basic law which proposes a legal framework for climate policy and which provides for urgent and effective response mechanisms to climate change, whether in terms of adaptation, or in terms of mitigation, a draft law which aims to establish an effective, clear, coherent and orderly climate policy at different levels of action, in conjunction with environmental policy and with each of the related sectors, and which ensures the equitable distribution of costs and benefits arising from the application of solutions that are being implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u40	The PSD bill reserves to the State and its agents the role of promoters of a socio-economic ecosystem favourable to the participation of the various subjects of climate action on the path to sustainability, as well as ensuring the equitable distribution of benefits arising from the application of the law. Having as fundamental principles sustainable development, intra- and intergenerational responsibility, policy transversality, fiscal neutrality, the concept of polluter/user-payer and international cooperation, the PSD bill aims, inter alia, to promote a fair and lasting transition to a competitive, sustainable and circular economy, carbon neutral and promoter of inclusive green growth; contributing to social and territorial cohesion; strengthening the participation and training of public and private sectors and citizens in climate action; promoting research and innovation in climate matters; ensuring the effectiveness, clarity and transparency of information systems, reporting and monitoring. We also propose — and this is a very important point — the creation of a climate action council, a body independent of political power and dedicated to the analysis and evaluation of climate change and climate policy and subject to reporting obligations before the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]] The provision of accounts, transparency and reporting capacity are determining factors for the success of the change required. The Government's obligation to produce an annual report on the state of the climate, to look at public spending from the point of view of its climate impact or to motivate banks and other economic agents to opt for conscious capitalism in their investments are some of the measures we understand vital to overcoming this challenge. A basic climate law that recognizes that climate action agents are citizens, the central state, autonomous regions, authorities, entities with economic activity control functions, non-governmental environmental organisations, businesses and private entities—that is, climate action subjects are all! This is the PSD proposal, a proposal that we discuss with society in a process of public auscultation that gave voice and space to all those who wanted to give a little of themselves in this initiative and ambition. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the future law on the basis of climate must be a contract between all, which places the country and the planet, always, first and foremost, and which results from frank discussion and negotiation between all political forces. We start with this debate of an open mind and with a single concern: that what will be approved in the Assembly of the Republic will make the country more resilient, more sustainable, more protected in relation to climate change, but will also allow us, from now on, to begin to reorganize and work in a completely different way, a challenge on which our life depends, our survival. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u41	To submit Bill No. 605 / XIV / 2. a, has the floor to Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Eight bills are under discussion and I have the particularity of subscribing two of them. Almost all parties presented legislative initiatives, with differentiated proposals, but all with one objective: commitment to combating climate change. In fact, this is the great crisis of the twenty-first century must concern us all, regardless of the political color, and it requires us all to commit ourselves to a serious discussion on this subject, a plural discussion that includes the scientific community and non-governmental organizations of the environment, which allow us to realize, of the various proposals on the table, which is the best way to achieve the goal we have already perceived to be common. It is a fact accepted by the scientific community that the global climate is experiencing changes at an unprecedented rate. The increase in temperature is associated with an increase in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from human activity. According to the Special Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the increase in global warming above 2 °C will have dramatic impacts on ecosystems, in addition to our health and food systems, and on the biodiversity of our planet. With the continued increase in greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere and consequent increase in global temperature, climate changes are expected, which will increase the probability of extreme weather events, such as the reduction of precipitation in winter, the increase in drought periods, extreme wind and heat waves, as well as other consequences, such as rising sea level, acidification of oceans and loss of biodiversity. The current forecasts demonstrate the importance of avoiding irreversible climate change and justify the urgent decision-making at world level to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thus avoid the increase in global temperature above the level and half. Efforts to reduce emissions are not to be devalued. However, it is essential to implement more ambitious measures and actions with regard to resilience, environmental prevention and preparation, citizens and the economy to climate change, and the approval of climate-based law can make a fundamental contribution in this area. We must act today to safeguard our planet and its inhabitants, we must act today to ensure a healthy environment for future generations. That must be our commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u43	To submit Bill No 609 / XIV / 2. a, has the floor to Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are responsible for global warming, acidification of the oceans, mass extinctions and the anthropocentric way in which we relate to the nature that makes us think that this relationship needs to be an extractive relationship and that does not respect the other species. This way of relating to the environment has irreversibly influenced ecosystems, habitats and biodiversity. This legislative initiative is anchored in three pillars essential for climate justice: the pillar of sustainability, the pillar of resilience and also the pillar of repair. We need to give some emphasis to the latter, because it is insufficient to mitigate and adapt, we need to repair ecosystems and natural habitats in order to increase biodiversity and ensure food security. These eight initiatives aim at something that will unite us, regardless of our views and ideologies. And this union is what Ailton Krenak considered essential for « delaying the end of the world».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u45	We now have a number of requests for clarification of the various interventions produced. Starting with the intervention of Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP, Mr Fernando Ferreira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group was registered to request clarification. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Alma Rivera, regarding the cycle of water, the environment and climate and communism, we could always remember how the Soviet Union treated the Aral Sea in Central Asia. But what Portugal is asking us today is that the Assembly of the Republic discuss the basis of national climate policy. What Portugal is asking us is that the Assembly of the Republic ensure that all public institutions begin to integrate, in their programming, in their action and in their accountability, the environmental and climate concern that is already the concern of so many citizens, academies, associations and, of course, the Socialist Party, from the first hour. Portugal has made a remarkable way throughout the water cycle — the area mentioned in its intervention — from supply to sanitation and waste water treatment. And, with the Socialist Party's draft law, we strengthen: the incentive to save water; the recognition of consumer efforts; the encouragement to businesses to improve the quality, efficiency and efficiency of their processes and results; and a boost to the reuse of treated waste water in innovative and useful projects for the decarbonization of the economy and society. The question that arises is whether the oppositions are available to take advantage of this opportunity and strengthen Portugal's role in the world of nations engaged in combating climate change, which is ultimately the fight for modernity and intelligence in managing the central systems of the functioning of society, which we want greener, more sustainable and more dynamic. The important thing is that we all know, from all sides, that we are in line with this challenge, alongside the citizens and the planet. The questions I put to you, Mrs Alma Rivera, are whether or not the CFP is available to work together with the Socialist Party to find the best solution for the country, whether or not it is available to align itself with the climate effort that has been made in the European Union and whether or not Europe is considered fundamental to helping the planet achieve the goals that are so much needed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u47	Having another Member registered to request clarification and having Mrs Alma Rivera informed the Bureau that she wishes to answer together, Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to that effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened very carefully to the description of the CFP regarding a set of problems, some of which, curiously, would find a solution in the State budget which the CFP itself has made possible. I would say that this vote might even deserve an environmental impact study. Surely, if he deserved it, he would fall. I also recall the curious position of the Portuguese Communist Party, with the abstention in September 2016 to the Paris Agreement, an agreement which launched fundamental goals to solve problems affecting Portugal, which affect Europe and affect the world. But the very important point that unites us all on which, as has been said by the PSD Parliamentary Group, we are all summoned, we are all agents so that these problems are solved and that tomorrow future generations can have better guidance, this fundamental point is related to what each of us can do. Clearly, there are challenges that need to be addressed and it is clear that electric mobility is fundamental, as Mr Socialist's colleague said. On the other hand, I should like to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group will be very pleased to send you two documents: one, the report on what has been done with regard to electric mobility, and one, the presentation document itself. I think you will be very pleased to read them, even because I know you have few reports from the PS and the government to read, because you do not publish anything at all. [[PS and PCP protests.]] But, Mr President, by speaking in reports, there is a very important issue concerning green public procurement, which poses a fundamental challenge for us. There is indeed a report by the Court of Auditors that says that this is a goal that has not been achieved, there is recognition by the Government that the goal has not been reached and there is, in the PSD bill, the defense of a circular economy that allows a lower amount of resources consumed and a reduction of waste produced in relation to purchases by the State of Portugal. [[Protests by PS Member Fernando Paulo Ferreira.]] Finally, in spite of Mr President's irritation and concern — then he will read the document and he will calm down — I must say that it is essential that the government change its course, it is essential that it fulfil this objective to positively influence the market and the circular economy, which is what we need. I am sure you will join us in this matter and I am sure you will have a lot to read with what we will send. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u49	In reply, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u50	Mr President, I would like to thank the Member of the PS for his questions. I do not thank the Member of the Social Democratic Party Nuno Carvalho, because the questions, by the way, were not related to my intervention, he was mistaken in the addressee.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u51	Isn't that the same government? Isn't that the same thing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u52	I have little time, but I would like to tell you that what the PSD does not want to discuss are the mechanisms that it approves and defends, that it knows they are perverse and that they have only to do with financial speculation. That is what the PSD does not want to debate here. You don't want to define it, because you know you have « skeletons in your closet ». With regard to the questions put by Mr PS, I am moved by references to the other side of the world and decades ago, but it seems that this is only a way of not talking about the options taken at this time, particularly at water level, since when they were opposed they criticized the concessions of water services and sanitation to private people and now « put the rape in the bag ». So what we think is that there is a great deal of lack of willingness to face financial interests. With regard to PS and PSD, they should be ashamed not to mention why they voted against a PCP proposal that specifically reduced such wastes they talk about and packages that are unnecessary. These options are in line with the economic interests that do not question the root of the problems, but they should be taken over by you. I think you should assume your responsibilities! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u53	Mr João Nicolau, of the PS Parliamentary Group, signed up to request clarification from Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, various species of plants and animals are disappearing at an increasing rate due to human activity. A UN ( United Nations ) report of 2019 alerts that 1 million species in an estimated total of 8 million are being extinct and many of them may disappear in a few decades. In Europe alone there are estimated to be more than 1000 endangered species. And the species are not just numbers, they are part of the ecosystems that provide us with a panoply of essential things that we take as guaranteed. This is why it is urgent, and it must be everyone's design, strengthening the protection of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u56	But climate change is the biggest threat to biodiversity in the 21st century. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it has never been as urgent as it is today to adopt a basic law of climate that enables us to leverage and compromise the country with climate action, with decarbonization and sustainability, with all the importance that this has to put a brake on the loss of biodiversity that we have witnessed and which, it is expected, will accentuate, if nothing changes. The bill that the PS brings today to plenary has the necessary ambition. It sets the foundations and also important goals and measures, such as the enhancement of ecosystem services, the conversion of forests, the transformation of landscape, the creation of new marine protected areas, but also the pursuit of sustainable exploitation of natural resources, an increasingly innovative and sustainable agriculture, by a management of the territory in line with the planet and the ecosystems. In essence, it is important to ensure that we consume rationally, with the least possible impact, in order to prevent biodiversity loss and thus ensure that this generation has as a guarantee the right to climate and ecological balance, but without jeopardizing the balance in subsequent generations. Inverting the path of biodiversity loss also implies more ambition and commitment. Mrs Mariana Silva, the « Old People of the Rest », happily, are disappearing and are becoming less and less. I wonder if the ENP is available to take concrete goals and commitments at the centre of discussion in the specialty, together with the Socialist Party, to work on increasingly defined and concrete goals and commitments with a serious, strong and concrete ambition in the climate challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u57	In reply, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u58	Mr President, Mr João Nicolau, spoke in his intervention of endangered species, plants and animals, referring to 1000 endangered species. He said that it is not just numbers and the Greens agree that it is not just numbers and that it is necessary to stop the loss of biodiversity. The Greens are therefore available to work on a climate law that helps us in this way of protecting biodiversity. I can see from your statement that the Socialist Party and the Government, of the same colour, are available to discuss projects such as Montijo Airport, Lithium and associated minerals at borders of protected areas, near the National Park of Peneda-Gerês, in areas of world agricultural heritage, in the Serra da Estrela with the status of World Geopark, or that of superintensive agriculture (olives, almonds and slaughterhouses), all projects and areas where there is a real loss of biodiversity. I am therefore pleased that the PS has today brought this willingness to rethink these projects. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u59	Mr. Nelson Peralta has the floor to request clarifications from Mr. Paulo Leitão of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, regarding future climate challenges, in addition to the more necessary reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, adaptation and mitigation must also play a central role in government action for the coming decades. The increase in the frequency of extreme phenomena in the coming years will require more careful management of our water resources that increases the reaction capacity to the more frequent full and dry. In addition to the strengthening of the water resources monitoring network and measures to protect people and goods, solutions are increasingly needed to regulate the flow of rivers, amortising the full waves and ensuring the necessary reserves for drought periods. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against climate change we cannot afford to spare effective weapons. The lack of effective measures to mitigate the size and impact of the fillings is also a matter of concern. In Lower Mondego, still very recently, entire populations were isolated or had to be evacuated. Despite major improvements in the quality of our water resources over the past 20 years, much remains to be done. Monitoring and sanitation infrastructures also need action. At the end of the line, it will affect the pressure of extreme phenomena, especially if we talk about fragile or non-existent rainnets. I therefore ask Mr Nelson Peralta whether or not the country needs more investment in these infrastructures, especially in the rains that will be under this pressure increased in the coming years, and also if, in the understanding of the Left Block, solutions such as dams are to be excluded in the normal regularization of watercourses, preventing the fillings from having greater dimensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u61	In reply, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u62	Mr President, Mr Paul Leitão, I should like to say that I consider it ironic that the PSD Parliamentary Group says that, in climate matters, we cannot dispense with effective weapons. We are talking about the PSD that privatized the waste sector, the PSD that privatized Galp, the REN ( National Electric Network) and the EDP ( Energys of Portugal ), making now there is a business of millions, but 2 million people at home cold. I must say, however, that the Left Block obviously considers that there must be more public investment. We must say: welcome, PSD, to this position! As for the issue of dams, well, we do not have an abolitionist position. What we can't have is all the rivers with dams and all the rivers, like batteries, working only for the interest of a company that the PSD privatized. So what I can tell you is that, on the left side of the Block, we are on the side of the solutions and we want the PSD now to join the Block proposal to create a public sector of renewable energy, even to compensate for some of the many errors that PSD has made during its governance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u63	To request clarification from Mr Luís Leite Ramos, three Mr Ramos. Ladies and gentlemen. Having informed the Bureau that you wish to respond to all requests for clarification together, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a basic law defines goals, means and also plans. In addition, a law of climate bases should define the precautionary principle as an act and be consistent with it. The importance of this law therefore goes far beyond the generalities and contradictions that the PSD presents to us here today. In fact, we do not forget, as Mr. Nelson Peralta also said, that it was the PSD that in 2015 signed a set of oil exploration contracts that greatly compromised the goal of carbon neutrality until 2050.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u66	There were 16 contracts for oil exploration! And it was 2015. Five years ago! Fortunately, popular mobilization has succeeded in bringing them down one by one. But here is also another contradiction: the expectation or belief of the Democratic Social Party that the market will solve the problem. The delivery of these contracts indicates that neither private people have a great interest in changing their production forms, nor does the neoliberal state really want to plan and intervene in the economy to combat climate chaos. It intends to deliver to the market so that, once again, it will do the best it can. And, if it depended on the PSD, we would now be exploring oil in Portugal! It also understands the PSD that, if the polluter can pay, it has the right to pollute. I wonder if the PSD understands that the experience of recent years, with the Panasqueira Mines, with the toxic wastes of São Pedro da Cova, with the wastes in Sobrado and Chamusca, or also the environmental crime in the Tejo and Ferreira River have some price. A precautionary policy is not in line with allowing all those who can pay. Without goals, without public planning, without caution, well we can approve a set of good intentions, but we do not leave. It is therefore important to understand and that the PSD says here, this afternoon, what are its goals proposals. Is he committed to ambitious goals by 2030? To what extent is the PSD actually committed? Because if you are committed as you were during the period of your governance, we are indeed quite afraid that we cannot move forward with the Social Democratic Party and with what is, in fact, the design of our lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u67	For clarifications, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u68	Madam President, I greet you and, in your person, all those present. First of all, I would like to point out that those who have not yet understood that we are not doing a debate to rescue the planet, but, yes, to rescue our privilege of living on this planet, have noticed very little. And to the right you've noticed very little, you have to say it. Even yesterday, we saw a group of negationists, a set of crooks to invade one of the greatest symbols of democracy, the same ones that are represented here by that black chair, which today is empty and which has dedicated not one minute to such important basic law, nor has one minute dedicated to this subject. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what I want to talk about - and what I would like to put to the PSD Member is about transport. We have acted to reduce the 24% of contributions to greenhouse gases that this sector brings. I could give you many examples, such as those of the 10 ships, which will be acquired, moved by electric propulsion, that of the 700 buses which have transformed mobility and which, instead of being moved to diesel, have become moved to energy friendly to the environment, namely LNG (liquefied natural gas), that of the hybrids or that of the electrics. Mrs. Members on the right, this is the difference between your proclamation, your inconsistency, and our action. It's just that we make these examples and that's where we're going. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] But there is another example, Mr Minister, which is the PART, the programme that nudes the total inconsistency of the right in this debate. This is a revolutionary programme: from EUR 104 million we spent 130 million and from EUR 130 million to EUR 300 million. We were able to arrive at a level where we reduced what was the tariff, reduced what was the difficulties of access, but we also withdrew, within 9 months, 154 tonnes of CO2 and we also managed that in 9 months, throughout the country, there would be more access. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important to remember, honourable Member — tell us, share with us — as the PSD voted the most revolutionary investment, the most serious investment in changing the paradigm of transport in Portugal. If you don't remember, I tell you already: you voted against, Mr! [[PSD protests.]] But more, and I conclude, Mr Minister, because the differences are too obvious: we have spoken here on paper, on draft reports, on footnotes, and what we know is that, of your action, there has been absolutely nothing left. This is the difference, this is the fight that the liberal left, the progressive left has made and so, Minister, that we will continue to make the difference. [[Protests from PSD MP Nuno Miguel Carvalho.]] We project, we have a wide-ranging vision; however, we also do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u69	To make the last request for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u70	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, I welcome the PSD for the initiative, but I would like to ask you two questions about two gaps in the legislative initiative. First gap: the adaptation strategy for climate change is not included in the PSD proposal, there is no. Portugal's great challenge in the coming years, more than mitigation, is the adaptation of the territory, particularly to the severity of desertification and water scarcity. It is because of this that, for example, we can take options for a new agriculture, for a different way of producing food. in a geographical situation below the Tagus, where desertification will be extremely severe, where the severity of water scarcity will be enormous, what the PSD has to say about this, a party that so often pulls through its scrolls in the area of agriculture and that, in this matter, does not come to play. The second gap which, for us, is also somewhat unusual is that the Social Democratic Party wants to combat climate change, to have a climate law, but does not provide for the elimination of subsidies, support, tax exemptions to petroleum products, fossil fuels. What is the position of the Social Democratic Party in this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u71	In reply, Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, Mr André Pinotes Batista and Mr André Silva for the questions they have put to me and I will be very telegraphic in the answers. Regarding the question of the Left Block, of course we, as regards private agents, have a completely different view of that vision that the Left Block has. So it is not worth having to discuss principles here. We understand that private initiative is fundamental and that if we exclude the private from this fight...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u73	How will they respond to the energy problem? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u74	Mrs. Member, would you like to hear? Do you want to hear it or not? Otherwise, I shall move on to the next Member. I was telling you that it is strange to ask the PSD what you did between 2011 and 2015, when you supported a government between 2015 and 2019 and the amendments in this area were none. Therefore, I think it is a completely rhetorical question and to « shake the water from the hood ». With regard to the goals — and Mr Silva's question is in the same direction — we believe that a basic law cannot set rigid targets, it must create mechanisms for these goals to be fixed and can be amended and adapted properly. That is why we have chosen, as we have indeed justified. to Mr André Pinotes Batista, I would say that if the propaganda of this result, the PS was unbeatable in these areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u75	Go ask the families!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u76	So, honourable Member, as regards this matter, it is not worth it... I dare not even compete with you. For the PART, the PSD position has not changed. What we understand is that the proposal of the PART which has been adopted — in fact, we have made proposals in Budget to amend it, in the sense that it is more just, more equitable by the country as a whole — essentially benefits the Metropolitan Areas of Porto and Lisbon and leaves the rest of the country completely behind, in an absolutely unequal and unqualified form. Mr André Silva, with regard to the adaptation strategy for climate change, the answer is the same: we believe that a basic law should frame and create the mechanisms needed to implement policies. It is not the basic law that will define a set of policies in detail, detail and quantity, in order to implement them. We fully agree with the need for programmes and strategies in these areas which you referred to in the case of agriculture and subsidies. What we understand is that there cannot be a radical, automatic cut in relation to these supports. in the same way that we believe it is necessary to ensure that the country cannot destroy its economy and its economic value. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u77	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes, to whom I would like to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They have been there for more than five years as Minister, and for me, today, this is a first. This is the first time that I have the honour to come to this House without having put forward any proposals and, indeed, listen to the proposals of each parliamentary group and be able to participate in this discussion. Unquestionably, regardless of the agrarians why our days have passed, today, this afternoon, in this House, the news is really good news. They will remember that the Socialist Party's election programme had provided for climate law and would also remember that the Government's programme does not have it. And it wasn't for any forgetfulness, it was absolutely intentional. There are many things, and of them I will not stop speaking, which are the responsibility of the government in this matter, but clearly the production of a climate law should be born in this House with contributions from all parties, with a long-term perspective. So I repeat, this is really a good idea, it is even a set of good ideas and it is a day of satisfaction for the political leader for the environment and climate action that can be here today. Without obviously commenting on any of the bills, but not forgetting to comment on some things that have been said, I mean that the law of climate, be more detailed in its goals, be more programmatic, have more concrete commitments or less concrete commitments, it is up to VV. Ex.as decides, but clearly it has to have two components, which are, if you wish, the two great mandatorial verbs resulting from the Paris Agreement: to mitigate and adapt. In other words, it would be poor a law of the climate which held itself so solely in the need to reduce emissions by sector or in its overallity. It is essential that this should be the case, in my view, the structure of the commitment to neutrality until 2050, it is essential to realize that a more important decade ago, within these three decades, is already the 2030s, but this law would be incomplete in my view if in fact it did not have the component of adaptation, the territorial component, the component of the restoration of ecosystems, which will be, have the smallest doubt—I know that those who are most attentive do not have it—the great jargon and the most necessary of what will be the political activity and commitment in the years to come. Portugal is indeed an exemplary country in the world in relation to what it has done in the field of emission reduction. Portugal is not yet, but should be, an exemplary country in the world in the way it takes care of its territory, as it values its natural capital, as it restores ecosystems. This set of proposals, although obviously different from one another, for a basic law of climate is very inspiring for direct political action in this area. Portugal is indeed very proud of what it has done, and I cannot help but reflect here: we have already reduced our emissions by 26 %. According to data from yesterday — and are provisional data — 59 % of the electricity consumed and as such also produced during 2020 was 59 %. We reached the target for 2020. According to data from 2019, 30, 7 % of final energy consumption in Portugal has already come from renewable sources. The target for 2020 which will certainly be reached is 31 %. I would lie, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if you said that by the end of 2015 looking at the data on the table, looking at the political driving that existed at the time, for example, in the transport sector, you would think that reaching these data would be possible without a great, great effort, in fact, a very strong political will and a great commitment by the Portuguese, including Portuguese companies and other companies acting in Portugal. And what we did is we did it! Frankly, I tell you that four years ago the perspectives were very different from what we have today. They were more than 2,2 thousand / MWh installed in renewable technologies between 2015 and September 2020. We increased from 1 % to 3 % of the electricity produced and consumed in Portugal from solar sources. It is still very little, but it is indeed a very big leap. It is already in the year 2021, Mr Hugo Pires and Mr André Silva, especially because of the tax changes produced, proposed by the Government and approved by this House, but not adopted by all, it is true! in order to reduce the subsidies to which Mr André Silva very well calls 'wrong subsidies' — perverse from an environmental point of view — to the production of energy with origin, there in fossil fuels, which we have reached where we have arrived. It was sufficient for the exemption of 100 % of ISP (charged on petroleum products) to produce electricity from coal to 50 % — because these things should not be done - from night to morning - in order to be economically unviable, the production of electricity from coal. And, as you know, it's already started in the fuel oil. And, as you know, this has already begun, too, in the natural gas itself. This is fundamental, absolutely fundamental, in order to reach and to achieve our goals. contrary to what has already been stated here, Portugal is even the country in which, today, the holofotes of the investment of renewables worldwide and not only in Europe are focused. And the success with which we conduct the two solar auctions, in which in both and successively beats low-priced world records in the production of electricity from the solar, are the best example I can give you all. But, yes, in transport there was even a great revolution. It is not time to point fingers, but it is time to say the following: three years ago, the support — obviously fair and still cut in the time of the right-wing governments — was cut off from the so-called'social passes', there was no more support. And, approved in this House by whom you well know that you approved it, and it is not worth saying who voted against, we went from zero euros three years ago to at least 198 million euros already next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u80	This is really a big change. There is, under no circumstances, no case where driving is cheaper than collective transport. And that is, in fact, a very big change. With great pride, we are the fourth country in Europe with the largest share of the sale of electric vehicles. With great pride, we are the fourth country in Europe with fewer emissions from new vehicles entering the market. With great pride, we have witnessed — a commitment from the authorities — the construction of 400 km of cycloviae during this time of government; we intervened in 60 km of coast, always with natural base solutions; we rebuilt — the number is not complete, but I have no more complete to give — 1000 km of rivers and banks, intervening in the riparian galleries and always, I repeat, with nature-based solutions, i.e., with natural base solutions;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and we conclude the restoration and improvement of the conditions for the protection of nature and the enhancement of natural capital, with 26 million euros, our natural parks and our protected areas. of what I heard in this debate, first of all from the Left Block, I conclude that you are behind Tomasi di Lampedusa. He said something needed to change so that everything would stay the same. Your perspective is that nothing should change for everything to remain the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u81	I haven't read our initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u82	I can't even understand the left block proposals or some of the things that have been said here. Although, finally, I remember that, as a boy, with my father, listening to the stories of the ball and two expressions of Gabriel Alves had left me, that of the « false slow» and that of the « always equal himself». I am not going to use the « false slow », because it does not apply, but it really applies to « always equal to itself », because what has been said here about the coal plant and the Matosinhos refinery has everything to do with the position they have regarding the TGR (waste management rate) and the position they had on the carbon rate and its application to fuels. Therefore, in this respect, when inconcrete things are discussed, I repeat, they are left behind by Giuseppe Tomaso di Lampedusa, because, after all, from your point of view, nothing should change for everything to remain in the same and, if nothing changes, everything will truly remain in the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u83	I should have read our proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u84	I can't stop asking myself — I ask no one, but I ask myself! — on the intervention of Mrs Alma Rivera and the issue of the granting of water to private persons. I do not ask you, but I ask myself: how many private concessions have been made since the Socialist Party is in government? A number between zero and very nothing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] The number is exactly in the middle, between zero and nothing, strictly none! So I cannot understand where with the Socialist Party and with the Government — because the Socialist Party represents who is very well represented — there has been some change, because there has been no change. Then I also hear the Greens Ecological Party speaking on exploitation of lithium in protected areas and ask: but where? Where? What is the territory in fact? For example, in the contest we want to launch lithium and for which we know, and we agree, that there has to be a strategic environmental assessment, which one of these farms is in a protected area? Oh, my God! It is a very similar number to that of water concessions: between zero and nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u85	When I can, I answer you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u86	I also address Mr André Silva, who, with due respect, said something wrong when he stated that the goals set are optional. They're not really! The goals that are in the PNEC (National Energy and Climate Plan) are mandatory targets and must meet them. It is our commitment to Europe and must indeed be fulfilled. So when you say what you say, with all respect, you lack some knowledge. He really lacks some knowledge. There are already many things done, many commitments made and, therefore, Mr President, I have even good news for you: you are not even going to write on a blank sheet, because there is already a lot done. I cannot fail to take advantage to comment and give my answer to Mr. Paulo Leitão's question, about Low World and whether or not there are more dams. No, it is not, in fact, with dams that we will prevent the existence of fillies. It is not really, but I insist, and it is public, in the idea that I sincerely feel that I need to do at least a dam in Portugal — and I find no more than one — which has essentially an environmental objective, which can only be assessed after the assessment of its environmental impact, which can conclude by its non-construction. And it even has one environmental objective, which is to guarantee the existence of tails in the river Tejo. The Tejo basin, regardless of the country where it runs, Portugal or Spain, has lost more than one room of its water volume. As much as Spain fulfils its obligation around the Albufeira Convention — as it has already done this last year in an exemplary way, so that was not the subject, and I am glad that it was, because the ideal is that it is never the case — it seems to me very clearly that on the Portuguese side we have to have a reservation for, if necessary, we will put water on the Roof. The best river is Ocreza and the best place is, more or less, where Pracana dam is today. Obviously, it is necessary to make an environmental impact assessment and to be sure, because we have to have, that the local negative impacts are not greater than the overall impact on the whole system. But, yes, there are many interventions that need to be done, particularly in Lower Mondego, in rivers such as Pranto, Moega, Arunca, Ceira, and all these interventions cannot have a model of engineering that one day led to the project of Low Mondego. It is unimaginable that we continue to artificialize rivers. I'm not criticizing what was done, because that's how it was done and it's a project of the 70's. It is the river we have, we must know how to live with it and the people have located themselves in the face of that same work, which obviously does not have and will never have an unlimited capacity. Anyone who says there won't be more full in Lower Mondego, most likely, won't be telling the truth. What is crucial is to reduce, using natural engineering methods — which obliges us to review all the projects rather than the concrete projects we had — so that these interventions are done and that with these same interventions we can reduce the water intake to the central bed and the peripheral beds of Mondego. If we have done much in the past, if much of what has happened is the result of the political action and the commitment we have been making, we have still adopted an extraordinarily important thing today to ensure the alignment of the entire legislative policy of the Government with the commitment to combat climate change. Therefore, today, in the Council of Ministers, the evaluation of the legislative impact on the climate of any decision of the Government was approved by a Resolution of the Council of Ministers. Just as any government decisions have a set of rules, in order to know how much they cost and who impact from a more economic and social point of view, for the time being, experimentally and for one year, with equal impact and with equal dimension in our commitment, all diplomas approved by the Council of Ministers will also have to have this previous reading grid on what are the consequences — positive, positive in cases and negative in others or negative — in everything that has to do with defending environmental conditions, particularly climate action. This is today's decision. When I hear things that have been mentioned here, I cannot but announce that, at the beginning of next year, the strategy for combating climate poverty will be public, so that we can discuss it in this House, if you wish. Similarly, the long-term strategy for the renovation of buildings and the action plan for sustainable bio-economics. Each of these policy instruments has a very clear translation of the investments to be promoted and financed during the next Community support framework and already from the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). For sustainable bio-economics, EUR 150 million, three major projects in areas of great consumption, textiles, footwear and resins produced from the pine forest and its introduction into the market, replacing chemical and non-sustainable products. Similarly, with regard to energy efficiency for buildings, we are talking about EUR 620 million for public and private buildings, especially housing, and also for service buildings, with paid cheques, head, for cases of energy poverty. We do not want to leave out those who, wishing to intervene in their home, to gain in their comfort and also in the investment and payment of energy that they do in each month, cannot do so for lack of liquidity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we will pay to the head the money needed for your work. We know, and it has been said here — I think it has been said, in particular, by Mr André Silva and also by Mr Hugo Pires — that the great challenge facing us is even the fight against climate change. Yes, that is our great challenge. In fact, it was also said, and I am very sorry, for Mrs Mariana Silva. Certainly others have also said so and I apologize for not mentioning your name. It is also true that, as a global issue, there is no country, however large, that solves it alone. But it is indeed a very great pride Portugal to be in the front line, for responsibility, for commitment to the Portuguese, for commitment to how the world is and, we do not deny it, for necessity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know that we are the country of Europe which is most likely to suffer the consequences of climate change. That is why, in order to be demanding with third parties, we need to be able to take on our commitments. I'm afraid we've done well, we're on the front line. Those who think that Portugal should be on average think badly, even because, truly, and that is increasingly clear, intervening and investing in sustainability is even investing in economic recovery and ensuring that we will have a Portugal with greater quality of life, with greater social justice, with more skilled employment and with more well-being. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u87	The Bureau shall record three entries for clarification. How do you want to respond, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u88	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u89	To make the first request for clarification, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u90	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mr. Members, Minister, today we have discussed an important law, the law of climate, a theme that has marked the international agenda. Portugal, as Mr Minister has just mentioned, has been on the front line of this agenda, and I point out three examples. First, Portugal was the first country to present a Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality by 2050, committed to measures and concrete goals. He led by example. Second, as pointed out between 2015 and 2019, Portugal reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 26 %. It was of the best performances in Europe. Third, it has had an agenda for climate action with measures in several key areas, such as renewable energy. As well stated in 2019, Portugal was the fifth country in the European Union that most electricity produced from renewable energy. About 60 % — to be strict, 59 % — of electricity produced in Portugal originates in renewables. And this has meaning: on the one hand, better environment and, on the other, lower electricity costs. In fact, over the past four years the cost of electricity has fallen 8, 1 % in Portugal and instead in the European Union has increased 4 %. However, these examples of initiatives, which many others could join, particularly in terms of sustainable mobility, justify Portugal's international environmental recognition. For the European Commission, as has already been said in this debate, Portugal is of the countries that are in a better position to meet the targets set by 2030, but despite these results, the challenge of climate change requires continuous and persistent action. This is precisely why climate action is a priority of the Government, a priority of the Portuguese Presidency and the European Union and a priority of the next cycle of Community funds. Indeed, in the next Recovery and Resilience Plan 37% of the funds are precisely affected by the climate transition. So we have strategy, we have funds and we're going to have a climate law, and that's essential. But we will only be truly successful with a lasting commitment of all: political parties, to generate consensus, as is the case with this law; governments, current and future governments, in commitment and in the fulfilment of climate goals; institutions; science; schools; and also citizens, with active and responsible citizenship to the environment. Truly, there is no state, there is no strategy, there is no law that can replace the indispensable commitment that we all have to have with the environment, with our common planet. Our individual or collective choices will be crucial to our greatest or lesser success in the challenge of climate change. We all have to be agents of change. Finally, global challenges, such as climate change, require responses at European level. Therefore, having taken over the Presidency of the European Union, what I ask the Minister is what will be the Government's priorities for climate transition within the Presidency of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u91	To make a request for clarification to the Minister for the Environment, Mr André Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u92	Mr President, before the main question I would like to put to you, Minister for the Environment, I would like to ask you, regarding the targets of decarbonisation which you have just said are binding on the PNEC where are the sanctions mechanisms if they are not met. The sanctions, if the targets that you refer to as binding are not met, are between zero and nothing. The other question I would like to ask you has to do with the fact that the fight against climate change ends a problem with regard to whether it is the Socialist Party or the Social Democratic Party, which relates to the fact that they do not face untouchable sectors. I am speaking to you in the specific case of the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ). The CAP sends to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of the Environment, often to say almost always, remains silent and the Minister of Finance passes the check. The road map for decarbonisation when it was in public consultation had an actual reduction of 50 % and remained almost nothing, and they added an increase of 18 % of pigs. Mr Environment Minister, I would like to ask you this: why is it that you, who speaks in a variety of ways, not to mention in everyone, aspects of our economy that contribute to climate change and to the brutal devastation of the planet, never talks about meat production? Why is it the only sector to which the Government and the Minister for the Environment give in? They gave in to the public consultation. All sectors of our economy are committed to climate change and the only thing that has escaped, the only thing that is not contributing to this fight is meat production, beef farming and pig farming, with all the impacts that this has on the environment, on the health level. Mr Environment Minister, I would like to know what the plan is, what is the Government's commitment to the conversion of this sector, to find alternatives to animal protein, because we know here — I have a scientist, Mr Alexander Quintanilla — that climate change must be made on the basis of knowledge and science, since the production of animal protein is absolutely devastating to the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u93	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to make another request for clarification to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u94	Mr President, Minister, the European Union has defined the fight against climate change as one of its priority objectives. And Portugal, at the time it assumes the Presidency of the European Union, has an obligation to participate in this discussion and in the solution, considering that it is one of the countries which, according to several studies conducted at national and international level, will suffer more from climate change. The Algarve is an example of this. This is a region where the impacts of climate change are already feeling rather serious and rapidly evolving. In Portugal, and in this region, we have witnessed the increasingly frequent extreme weather phenomena and the existence of long drought periods that have called into question agriculture and public water supply over the last three years. There is also a need for a strategic plan to combat drought in the Algarve. We cannot continue to add summers in which we do not know if the water reaches the tap. And, Mr Minister, we still do not know the effective initiatives or their timetable. The Algarve Regional Water Efficiency Plan needs effective initiatives and a timetable so that we can all start doing our part to build the solution. The Algarve is also an example of what should have already been done and not done at the level of coastal erosion—we know that erosion is as much as human occupation—not the only region where erosion has reached excessively high values and where occupation has resulted in a bad or inefficient spatial planning. Mr. Minister, more planning is needed, more action is needed on the part of your Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u95	To respond to the three requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions that have been put to me. The government, all of it, assumes the approval of the law of climate during its presidency as probably the most relevant of the activities that we will come to have in common with others that are known, mostly in the social area. It was very good for the Environment Council, with the Heads of State and Government, when it set clear, very ambitious targets to reduce at least 55 % of emissions by 2030 and to be all carbon neutral by 2050. Basically, it says nothing more than the Portuguese Government's own commitment since 2017. For this there is now a negotiating work with the European Parliament, for which there are still some differences, as is normal in a negotiation, but it would be irresponsible to lose a moment of these in order not to adopt such an important law as this. As the Presidency of the Council, we will do everything now in a proposal taken by us that is very similar to one of the other parts of the trilogue which is the Commission, so that together with the European Parliament we will reach a conclusion. This is a very important year because the COP ( Conference of the Parties) of the climate is held five years after Paris. To be rigorous, it takes place six years after Paris, but we all know why it was not at the end of five years that it took place. So at a time when — good news — the United States joins us, Europe must have an absolutely clear role, it must even end this semester as the first space in the world that has assumed carbon neutrality. In the context of this same Presidency, there is a set of other actions of the greatest importance, not trying to respond itself, but going to the meeting of a concern raised by the Left Block, the approval, the renewal of what is the Aarhus Convention to, in fact, all be able to have access to information and to have complete freedom of opinion as regards the set of NGOs (non-governmental organisations) and other entities that wish to speak out on this matter. Let me tell you that, as you can imagine, the problem does not exist in Portugal. There is no problem in Portugal, but there are some countries in Europe where they still exist and it is therefore absolutely essential that this should be the case. Without going too far, another major action is the adoption of the regulation for trans-European energy networks in which renewable gases will play a major role, as well as the approval of the 8. the Environmental Action Programme, which is fundamental to prolonging time, and under the law force, what are the principles of the European Green Deal. In good rigour, the European Green Deal is, not to say little, a commitment to the mandate of this Commission. And it is essential to be able to extend it over time and find ways of monitoring, not leaving out the need to regulate the manufacture of batteries, because it is really necessary to change the rules that exist. They were made at a time when the batteries for electric mobility still had a small dimension, but today they are already in great quantity. If they are in greater quantity, it is essential to realize that they must always be made in the perspective of their recyclability. Of course there are many other issues that have a strong climate relationship during our Presidency, but I leave only one last example, which is the informal council to be held in Portugal, in April, in Évora, to be devoted to adaptation. It is essential that the question of adaptation, which is a matter of little concern to the countries of the North — I do not say that it does not touch the speech but feels it in the skin — should be placed on the frontline of what Europe's concerns are. Mr André Silva, the goals are even binding. From the moment we present the PNEC before the European Union we are bound to those targets and the sanctions are of varying order, in particular with the loss of funds. On the initial proposal that came to the public consultation with regard to the roadmap for carbon neutrality and its conclusion, there were things that changed. It's normal, that's why we have a public consultation. V. Exa is that it confuses public consultation with capitulation, but that is in fact a conclusion of it and only its own. It is obvious, Mr André Silva, that agriculture and agricultural activity, particularly agriculture, must make a big leap in their commitment in the coming years. Here the PNEC is clear, here the strategy "from meadow to dish" is very clear and we know that the CAP has to meet what are the values that are in the PNEC itself and that it has to combine with it is undoubtedly a good indication. Mr Rui Cristina, there is only EUR 200 million in the PRR for water efficiency in the Algarve. And in the Supplementary Budget, which was approved in this House, for the Economic and Social Stability Plan there was soon also a smaller set of investments that were absolutely urgent and had to be made. Yes, there is a broad commitment of agricultural activity, tourism, gulf, municipalities, which are the ones who eventually represent all other sectors, to reduce the water footprint in the Algarve. Did we get more water for the Algarve than we had 10 years ago? No, we won't. So for every cubic meter of water we want to make available we have to have the commitment that there is a cubic meter of water that is saved. This is how we feel that water resources should be well managed in that territory, for which in the PRR there is a very significant share of investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u97	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u98	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The basic laws of climate are being discussed in Parliament today. This is an important discussion, because the CDS believes it is essential to prepare our country for climate change. The Environmental Bases Act, adopted in 2014, sets out the role of the private sector and environmental citizenship. In its Article 11. the, it is defined that climate change policy involves an integrated view of various socio-economic sectors and biophysical systems. It is urgent to define the instruments of a policy that responds to the different challenges associated with the fight against climate change, these challenges that include conservation and recovery of biodiversity as well as the reduction of greenhouse gases. In order to have an integrated view of the various socio-economic sectors, it is essential to ensure an environmental and climate policy that has something in common with economic policy. Both are interdependent and both are cross-cutting to different sectors of society, from education to safety, from well-being to health, from transport to energy or agriculture. Public-private cooperation must also be ensured. The policy to combat climate change depends largely on advances in knowledge by science typically based on public investment, as well as the development of services and new products typically dependent on the private initiative. Combined efforts, innovation will respond to technical or scientific complexity and put more sustainable alternatives on the market. To combat climate change, the economy of the future will have to be green, which, fortunately, has already begun to happen. Finally, it is necessary to go beyond green taxation. We have witnessed the transformation of the banking and financial sector to respond to the climate emergency, from the increase of the impact investing in the release of green bonds or blue bonds. At the same time, the Environment Fund does not replace the need to ensure that fiscal policy is conducive to best practice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that it is possible for significant global warming to occur, above 2 °C if we do nothing, and that this can cause extreme changes, either at the level of the rise of the average seawater level, either at the level of desertification, either at the level of biodiversity loss, or at the level of the availability of water itself. As has been said several times in this debate, these challenges of combating climate change must mobilize the country, mobilise Europe and mobilise the world. In November 2018, the European Commission presented a long-term strategy for a prosperous, modern, competitive and climate-neutral economy by 2050. A year later, in December 2019, the European Commission presented the European Green Deal, the European Ecological Pact. Every year, the atmosphere gets warmer and the climate changes a little more. of the eight million species that inhabit the planet, a million runs the risk of extinction. Forests and oceans are being polluted and destroyed. It is therefore essential to continue to develop environmental awareness in all citizens. It is necessary to promote efficient resource consumption and to promote, in an ambitious way, the transformation of the linear economy into a circular economy. It is important to ensure that environmental targets are properly defined in the various sectors and, in particular, in the energy, seas, transport, waste, agriculture and forests sectors. But as important as proper planning is the timing of short, medium and long-term goals, ensuring that they are met. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we refrain from looking at the environment in connection with the territory, we will end up with policies that remain well on paper, but which are inconsequential, because they are impracticable. We must necessarily involve local authorities in this fight and in the implementation of strategies for energy transition, through closer governance of citizens and appropriate to the reality of each locality. It is desirable to involve the authorities in promoting initiatives for the development of more sustainable city models and friends of the environment. There are many million euros of European funds in the PRR to combat climate change. Good implementation of these same funds and the maximization of their implementation are essential. In areas such as water resources, waste management, land management, environmental prevention, the use of renewable energy, environmental tourism, where possible, climate change and nature conservation, there is much to be done and much, too, to be evaluated. Several projects presented here suggest the creation of an independent committee to assess compliance with climate law, and well. However, it is essential that the authority which will have this competence responds to the Government and the Assembly of the Republic, so that it does not become just another committee which is set up with good intentions and which, along the way, falls into the forgetfulness of all. To talk about climate is to talk about creating conditions for a friendly mobility of the environment. Mobility is already a challenge for society as a whole. And sustainable mobility solutions are needed that meet the needs of additional transport and guarantee the intermobility of the country and its connection to the world. And in terms of mobility, it is essential that the framework of the National Investment Plan 2030 is aligned precisely with these goals and with these environmental objectives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, citizens and businesses should have incentives to redirect their behaviour. And let me give an example of the real country on the decarbonization of the environment in this case, I say that I am a bad example. Still this week I was talking to a businessman who has hundreds of electric bikes in a sharing system. And he said to me: « TVDEs, the so-called ‘UBER’, vehicles that are some gasoline and some electrics, but that are mostly diesel, pay, in terms of VAT, 6 %. I, who have a shared mobility business, with electric scooters, pay a tax of 23 %. In other words, it should be exactly the opposite: there should be incentives and low taxes for those who are friends of the environment and penalties for those who pollute the most. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can do a lot of debates, discussions or basic laws. If, in concrete, in the real country, changes in things do not happen at all, these same initiatives are useful. Today, talking about protecting the environment and preserving the climate means promoting the digital transition and friendly mobility of the environment. It must be understood that environmental challenges are also opportunities for transformation of industries, are opportunities for innovation, for the creation of new professions, are ultimately opportunities for the development of a new economy. I want to finish this speech with a positive note. We know that in 2021 there will be good climate intentions: Europe, the US and China, the three largest global economic blocs, will undertake to achieve carbonic emissions neutrality within 30 years. This is a significant advance and a great opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u99	I now give the floor to Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u100	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: A basic law of climate must give strategic direction, something that the government has never had — indeed, it shows total disorientation in this area of governance. The Minister is still coming to say that it is intentional and, if not, he comes to speak of a decision which has been decided today in the Council of Ministers, as always happens before any debate in the Assembly of the Republic. Awareness-raising as a factor of change will only be a real reality if combined with an integrated policy, and that has not existed. The transport sector is essential for the design of decarbonisation. The PS speaks of the PART, but knows that much of the country is not covered. More than promise, it is necessary to carry out the investments in the railway! The retraining of the West line, for example, does not only benefit the Leiria district, it benefits the country because its electrification will allow a reduction in energy costs and CO2 emissions. The priority in public transport must be to materialise on a higher quality of supply in access to metropolitan centres and with the smoothing of the tariff transition between inter-municipal communities and between these and metropolitan areas. The whole climate strategy has to involve society. Without people there's no change. There is an urgent need to promote active citizenship, as only that involvement will enable the objective of carbon neutrality to be achieved. There is a need to stimulate soft mobility modes. Yesterday the PSD presented a project to promote the use of bicycle in pre-school education. Raising awareness and preparing new generations for a new world has become an obligation today. We need to promote green mobility! The problem of mobility in cities and metropolitan areas has never before been known and solutions need to be found that can reduce the impact on family income, the deficit in quality of life and environmental balance. At the end of the day, what is intended is an integrated policy for cities and metropolitan areas. We have the notion, sirs. Members, this is the moment when citizens want to redeem the right to the city and to regulate urban and metropolitan space. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: It is necessary to look at the national territory to think about the effects of climate change and the need for another planning, another water, forestry and agricultural planning and the strengthening of resilience in infrastructure, in the face of extreme climate events, civil protection and health. A planning that takes into account the new climate reality is a planning that protects people and the territory, it is a planning that makes good use of financial resources. The NAP therefore advocates a risk atlas for climate change at national, regional and local levels. Sixsome, Barreiro, Almada, Vila Franca de Xira, Estuarios do Tejo e do Sado, Azambouja, Nazaré, Aveiro, Espinho, Viana do Castelo will be flooded in years. in terms of water management, whether in the economic recovery plan or within the next European financial framework, there is a need for a strategy for water resources on the basis of the different climate, medium and long-term scenarios. With regard to the preservation of ecosystems and species, we are on the fourth European ranking with more threatened species, with a total of 456. Between 2016 and 2019, species at risk of extinction in Portugal virtually doubled from 281 to 456. At the global level, Portugal is the twenty-seventh country with more endangered species, which puts us in 15 % of countries with more endangered species. In view of the size of our territory, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an incredibly weak performance for the worst reasons. That is why, too, a law of climate is fundamental. But I would also like to add one more argument: the United Nations, in response to the present health crisis COVID-19, declared the following: « At the end of the day, the health of people and the health of the planet are closely related. » The United Nations Environment Organization also states that human activity has changed all corners of the planet, from land to ocean, and that, as we continue to relentlessly invade nature and degrade ecosystems, we also put at risk human health, stressing that 75% of all emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic: viruses originating from the transfer of animals to humans due to the predation of habitats and biodiversity, which, as a species, we have also played a role in political decisions. Climate change, as it leads to loss of biodiversity, also contributes indirectly. The emergence of this virus, in a market with the sale of wild animals, inevitably has to bring us another attitude, inevitably has to bring us other policies. In addition to the growing emergence of zoonotic diseases, with high costs for human health and the economy, as the case of COVID-19 has well demonstrated, there are also several health threats resulting from climate change. We have not exhausted the migration to the north of diseases currently considered as tropical and also viruses and bacteria, frozen for centuries in Arctic lands, which have begun to thaw. Adaptation must also be done by changing our habits and behaviors. Awareness-raising and positive-enhancing policies will be fundamental. That is why a proposal for climate law makes all the sense, so that the country can prepare itself for the threats that are yet to arise and for the damage to all of us to be the least possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u103	I now give the floor to Mr António Lima Costa of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are united as to the final outcome to be achieved, but the way to get there has to be balanced and fair for the country as a whole. The basic law of climate cannot negatively discriminate against the rural world. To think about a basic law of climate is to think about mitigation, adaptation, but it must also be to think how to enhance, to the maximum, carbon sequestration by the agroforestry sector. This is an aspect that distinguishes us particularly from the PAN and the Socialist Party. For the agroforestry sector, it cannot be unilaterally imposed as the PS and PAN defend and want concrete targets for reducing emissions in a short time, without the State simultaneously playing its role and fulfilling its obligation to define strong public policies, strong support for the sector to maximize its carbon sequestration capacity. For the agroforestry sector, it is not credible to impose blindly, as the PS and the NAP defend, concrete targets for reducing emissions within a short period of time and not to consider, in parallel, emissions associated with the increase in the import of food goods, caused by such sudden reductions. This pattern of attack on the rural world is counterproductive and results in the detriment of our common objective of combating climate change. A good law of climate bases should view those living in the countryside, who live in the rural world not as an enemy, but as a partner in this fight, and the PSD is only available to approve a good law of climate bases. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u105	I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the fact that it is not possible to intervene without mask from the second row of the Hemicycle. So I ask you to do the favor of going to the front row when you want to intervene without a mask. Mr Miguel Costa Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment and Climate Action : The most optimistic scenarios point out that, if the current climate targets are met, the world is warming up a little more than 2 °C compared to pre-industrial levels. It is 2 °C that mean that on average every year, it will burn an area three times as much as it burned in the tragic year 2017. It is 2 °C that will flood much of Faro, Aveiro, Figueira da Foz and the Tejo estuary until 2050 and that will dry up dams, where there will be no water for agriculture, dramatically impacting the interior of the country. But we're far from being the most affected. Even pandemics like the one we live today will accelerate and climate change is expected to be directly responsible for more than 100 million malaria infections by 2030. I therefore join a generation of strikers, the Secretary-General of the United Nations and all the parties here unanimously recommended: Mr Minister, listen to our appeal and order the climate emergency! The bills we are discussing today come to respond to this emergency. Twenty years ago, young socialists presented here a project that generated the only law specifically on climate change in Portugal. Today, as the leader of Socialist Youth, it is a pride to continue this story as co-author of this project. in this fight, our lives are at stake, our future. I therefore say this unequivocally: the next generations, like mine, will not forgive us any failure! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If, between 2005 and 2010 and since 2018, we managed to decarbonize, many were the years in which we couldn't, in which we didn't do enough. Let us therefore give up good intentions and move on to action. The PS proposes, for this purpose, a broad set of instruments and, above all, the strictest system of planning and evaluation that organizes our efforts for this mission: planning of climate action in the short, medium and long term, approved here, linking all parties and governments, subject to extended public consultation and prepared with an independent and scientific technical unit, where young people are also represented, and because we cannot tolerate inertia or ineffectiveness, there should be a continuous, intermediate and posteriori evaluation, always independent and transparent; planning and evaluation of their expression and budget implementation, including a chapter on climate in the State Budget and the General Account; and planning and evaluation of the climate impacts of current and future legislation. Uncarbonizing will require courageous decisions. The PS doesn't steal from yours. We want to end the commercialization of powered cars only to fossil fuels until 2035. We need to ban the hydraulic fracture and limit the extraction of hydrocarbons. We need a robust public transport system, to value electric vehicles, renewable gases, an intelligent, interconnected and decentralized electrical network, to increase wetlands in forests and oceans. We need to mobilize the economy and citizens for this transition, a fair transition, with a green industrial strategy, which brings better living conditions and higher incomes, while combating gender inequalities and energy poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To this end, funding must be sustainable, making companies report and consider the risks and climate impacts of their activities and placing the bank and insurance sector despite their exposure and contribution. The state — all of us — must set an example at local, regional and international level. We must de-invest the state of fossil fuels, end the tax benefits on them. We must welcome climate refugees and pursue the ecocidal situation. International trade must be taxed by its carbon footprint in imports such as meat. And yes, the Assembly of the Republic must be carbon neutral in 2025. If the State fails, we want to strengthen the citizens' right to go to court and enforce our constitutional right to ecological balance. Therefore, Madam President, let us unite! Let us combat climate emergency our design, not of each party, not just a national or a generational design, but a civilizational design. Today, we can judge that this is another debate, but it will be the story that will judge us by the success of this undertaking. Let us make from this discussion a strong, ambitious and rigorous law. Let's make this law a lever for climate action. The future of the planet is in our hands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u107	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u108	Mr President, Mr Minister for Environment and Climate Action, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As I have only one minute liberal, I just wanted to tell you that, for the Liberal Initiative, this issue of climate change is so serious, so serious, that it did not deserve to be treated as a mere 'Troia horse' for the introduction of statisticizing policies. Unfortunately, too many parties have decided precisely to use the environment as a pretext for doing so in the projects that are being discussed today. The PS project speaks of 'price alignment' or 'industrial strategy'. The PCP project proposes to condition the agricultural use of fertile soils, treating private property as if it were a detail without interest, in fact, as it is customary. And all the projects admit, in one way or another, one without a number of rules, prohibitions and taxes to charge everything and something else. The environment deserved more than to make this role of "the Trojan horse" of statism and deserved serious discussion. If we had this more serious discussion, we would have to admit that combating climate change will not be possible without people putting environmental concerns at the top of their daily lives and that people will not do so, they will not give that priority as long as they have basic needs as they do today. Thus, greater prosperity, greater investment, greater creativity, less bureaucracy and fewer barriers to the state are essential if we want to succeed in this fight. That is why it is not coincidence that the most liberal countries are always at the forefront of the effective fight against this threat.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u109	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Environment and Climate Action: The climate challenge we face is enormous. The reduction of emissions, which must be ensured, requires bold strategies and robust policies aimed at decarbonizing the economy, changing behaviours and effectiveness in adapting and mitigating the effects of climate change. Biodiversity, agriculture, soils, forests, public health, air quality, energy production, ocean and coastal areas — everything that surrounds us and that we depend on is in process or at risk of destruction by the infamous climate change. The construction of a basic law of climate and the debate we are making today, more than urgent, are inevitable, given the need to deal with climate processes and phenomena, which we know today will be severely exacerbated in the future. The current environmental challenges — climate and not just — require ambition and commitment and strong governance and clear actions. the Government has the right to execute and comply. We need more measures and less narratives, more results and less propaganda. The Government cannot manage natural resources in a discretionary manner, as if they were fashion accessories. Yesterday I wanted to be the number one of the solar energy export, today I want to be the leader in hydrogen, tomorrow I want to be the visionary of lithium. This disorientation and inconsistencies are unfortunately reflected in a series of examples: energy interconnections are lost; it is said that the bet is in solar production, but auction panels continue to be installed; self-consumption production is presented as a design, but bureaucracy is such that people are not interested in investing; energy efficiency that would allow reduced consumption and invoices to continue to be pointed out by the European Commission as one of the worst performance indicators; energy poverty index is the highest in Europe; water losses in the network are in order of 170 million cubic metres; there is no strategy for drought and there are regions where, in certain periods, water can even cease to reach tournaments, where sanitation infrastructures are also responsible for water pollution without inspection or effective control. We are a country in which the air quality monitoring network has a modern website and application, but the European Union is accused of failing to have much of the obsolete and non-operational equipment. We are a country that is far from fulfilling the targets of recycling, collection and valuation with which it has committed itself, in which many landfills are environmental attacks and public health. We are an ineffective country in the circularity of the economy and where instead of creating conditions so that we can value more, reduce more and promote the change of behavior, choose to tax and penalize families, rather than positively encourage good behavior. This context of enormous environmental challenges and clear government inefficiencies reinforces the importance of Parliament's role in scrutiny, the demand for government and the contribution to the differential legislative production. Creating a basic law of climate is a necessity, but it is also a privilege that should mobilize all those who are invested in parliamentary functions, an opportunity to strengthen the environment, to make a relevant contribution, as so often the PSD understood to do throughout its history, from Ribeiro Telles to the present, with the creation of the first Environmental Bases Act, the laws of water, climate policies, the creation of agricultural and ecological reserves, among so many other achievements and environmental advances. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing the climate, its changes and its impacts and it only makes sense that this debate takes place in a broad, plural and responsible perspective, which results in a compromise response to overcome the challenges we face today. From productive processes to habits and behaviors, it is necessary to evolve from the use of resources to the circularity of the economy. It's urgent to change. We know well that any process of change, to be successful, has to count on the commitment and involvement of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u111	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u112	I'm done now, Madam President. in this way, all are needed and the initiatives that each parliamentary group brought here have important and positive contributions. It is our expectation that all will now give rise to a fruitful, participatory and constructive discussion, in the field of expertise, with a view to the creation of a strong law, of broad consensus and made to the extent of the challenge we face and the preservation of the future of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u113	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Combating climate change is the challenge of our lives. We cannot mortgage the lives of our children and our young people. However, preserving ecosystems and mitigating and adapting to climate change have not entered the way they should be in the equation of public accounts and even less in the political priorities and public investment. The result of this is that the debt we owe to the planet is getting bigger and, sooner or later, this bill will hit us at the door, and with unreasonable interest. A short time ago, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD heard that he was not available to define goals for the agroforestry sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u115	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u116	That's what I heard. We'll hear the tape. But if we do not actually define goals it is not possible to achieve the results by which all of us, here, seem to fight. contrary to what one might think, investment in combating the climate crisis will not harm the economy, it will not harm competitiveness. in a crucial moment for the energy transition, which has long been claimed and in which we know that we will count on a significant amount of European funds, we cannot continue to have an environmental defence speech and then defend a recovery plan that continues to bet on an extractive and productive vision. The basic climate law proposed by the NAP calls for cross-border policies and investment in energy transition and adaptation to climate change, as well as the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity. From that point on, we see the area of energy, where the path must be the one to bet on renewable energy, energy efficiency and the reduction of energy poverty, i.e. a path also to the economy of carbon neutrality. In addition to ensuring social justice in access to energy, the implementation of measures like these will allow for greater energy autonomy for families and reduce energy dependence from outside, with positive impacts on the balance of payments and energy security. The effects of this transition on the economy are positive, boost green jobs and increase GDP. The multiplier effect of the investment economy related to renewable energy, including in the transport sector, is 1, 8, which means that each investment euro will generate an increase in GDP of 1, 80 €. at a time when the coldest days of the year are recorded, it is important to remember that Portugal is one of the countries with higher levels of energy poverty, with no concrete action to combat it. A fifth of the Portuguese population has to choose between hunger or cold. This at the same time gives EUR 500 million in tax bills to oil. We need a climate law that places these millions of euros a year in improving the living conditions of people who, for example, need to make their homes resistant to cold and heat. With this, we have created positive financial impacts on our economy, rather than increasing profits from large companies that will not be even invested in Portugal and that will contribute to the increase in carbon footprint. We must also point out that poor air quality, mainly caused by transport that burns fossil fuels, associated with premature diseases and deaths due to respiratory and cardiovascular problems, represents a expenditure of EUR 17 billion per year. But let us also think of an unmeasurable value: the value of a living, healthy planet, where we can live and that we will leave to future generations with quality of life and respect for the other beings with whom we share it. That value is incalculable, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and do not co-operate with disastrous political options, such as the Montijo airport or the construction of hypermarkets in wet areas of our country, such as the White Alagoas, the Algarve, or the construction of hotels in primary dunes, or the predatory action of our biodiversity that we have recently seen in the Bella Tower. All of this has to be reconsidered. Economics and ecology have to get better relationships. It's urgent that we move on. We need short-term action plans, but always in view of the long-term impacts of climate change that meet mandatory targets and are assessed by independent expert committees. We need action, not plans of intention. More science is also needed. The costs of climate inaction and environmental protection and loss of biodiversity are much higher than the costs of action, as this health crisis has already shown us well. Those who say that the implementation of a climate law will harm the economy cannot be serious, it may only be defending some interests, but not that of the common good or the national economy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, when we proposed that the Assembly of the Republic should recommend to the Government to submit to the UN Secretary-General a proposal to amend the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court to ensure the consecration of the eco-crime, I saw it rejected because it was not appropriate. But we are happy today because we know that, after all, both the PCP and the PS will be available to accompany us in this process. If we want climate justice, we have no illusions, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for this opportunity is very short. The time to act is now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u117	We are moving to the closing stage of this debate. Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment and Climate Action and Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, I begin with the most obvious: for the majority of political parties represented in this House, the issue of climate requires a basic law. This consensus is only possible because the accumulated knowledge has become powerful. Today, we know that climate change results from increased greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere. And we know, because we measure these concentrations, prevent their impacts, confirm these forecasts and estimate what needs to be repaired. The impact of climate change on air and water quality, agriculture and fisheries, on human and environmental health, on the economy and inequalities has become evident. It was this evidence that led 117 countries 26 years ago to meet at the first Conference of the Parties, COP 1, in order to convert this knowledge into global policies to limit the increase in the temperature of our planet. But the successive delays of the required actions leave us a gigantic work ahead. With the planet’s population growing and seeking levels of comfort similar to ours, the path is obvious: we will have to increase renewable energy sources that require storage capacity and intelligent distribution systems, but also energy efficiency and CO2 capture capacity, not to speak of a more circular economy. And we have several good news: renewable energy is already competitive; the cost of energy produced by photovoltaic panels has dropped 250 times; wind energy, hydropower, solar thermal, geothermal and tides bring news daily. Green hydrogen, still far from being competitive, has, among other things, the advantage of having as a final product not the CO2, but the water. It is difficult to exaggerate the penetration of energy efficiency in the market. We all know what the letters from the AAA+ mean, the same with regard to the innovation of storage by batteries or even with regard to the capture of CO2. Since Europe has decided to be neutral in the contribution of greenhouse gases up to 2050, Portugal has already demonstrated that it is the best one to meet the agreed targets. But worldwide, changing the status quo is not easy and requires investments that are far from guaranteed. Energy poverty affects billions of citizens, even in Portugal. And the idea of abdicating what we've already acquired seems to come from the richest. The proposed basic law of climate policy that the PS has submitted is ambitious, fair and realistic. Try to balance activities that will disappear with those that will emerge and reward good examples to encourage investment and protect ecosystems. Many of the other proposals go the same way. The vast economic interests and challenges underlying the areas of production, storage, distribution and consumption of energy and other resources in the most varied sectors are known. But the challenges civil society faces are not smaller. It will be part of the political work to be done with researchers, autoarchs, NGOs and entrepreneurs in the construction of this law. Both at local and global level, the climate transition or is inclusive or failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u119	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Much has been said today about the urgency of combating climate change, which is the biggest problem facing mankind. But as far as we are dealing with this issue in the House, in practice the government seems to prefer to continue with the road map for decarbonisation, a commitment that is not binding and that may not resist the political cycles of governance. However, from today's debate, we can conclude that there is a broad consensus in Parliament to build a climate law that establishes rules and objectives, a law that is intra- and inter-generationally just, supported by scientific knowledge, comprehensive, technological and fiscally neutral application, based on collaboration between countries and on the internalization of environmental damage. Seven years is the time that separates us from the point of no return, the point that will lead to the end of thousands of species, making life impossible on our planet. The time for speeches, good intentions and mere proclamations is over. The time now is to make it happen. The time now is to invest in what really matters: protecting people and protecting our territory from the effects of the climate crisis. We're on the counterwatch. We invest in changing the spatial planning and land use model, protecting and protecting water resources. We will ensure the survival of the native forest and the health of our oceans, important carbon sinks. We will change the way we produce food that is intended to be more local, seasonal and, preferably, biologically. Let us leave aside the political and ideological differences that separate us, differences that at nothing have contributed so that, at least since the Rio Summit, we have advanced, in the form of concrete measures and actions, consistent and consequent, to avoid the average increase in global temperature, so that today we do not need to be here invoking the concept of climate emergency. It is time to join together in the urgent need to protect a good that is of everyone, our common home. It is time to be just and responsible for the next generation and not leave the house burning so that they will, in the future, extinguish the fire. This responsibility is so solely in the hands of each one of us. Have the courage to face the untouchable sectors, have the courage to legislate in order to change the way we relate to the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate and our agenda. You have the floor to Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo to make the usual ads.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the following Members were present at this plenary session, via videoconferencing. and Ladies and gentlemen: Sara Madruga da Costa, Sergio Marques and Sofia Matos, PSD, Sonia Fertuzinhos and Norberto Patinho, PS, and André Coelho Lima, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-07.u123	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the plenary session will start at 10 a.m. and the agenda includes several points. The first point is from the assessment of Petition No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( João José Roque Batista Fael et al.) — Creation of the career of health assistant technician, together with Law Projects Nos 485 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates and regulates the career of health assistant technician and 568 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Defines the general principles relating to the exercise of the profession of health assistant technician and the Resolution Projects Nos 614 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a career as an auxiliary health technician and 686 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — replacement and regulation of the career of health assistant technician. In the second point we will appreciate Petition No. 24 / XIV / 1. a (António Amable Caldeira Fradique et al.) — Not to violence against health professionals, along with Resolution Projects Nos 610 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Measures to combat violence against health professionals and 617 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a plan to prevent violence against health professionals at the workplace, and with Bill No. 604 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Type of public crime for assaults committed against any public official, in the performance of his or her duties, irrespective of his or her activity and worsening of the criminal frameworks provided for for all conduct of physical integrity offence. At the third point, we will appreciate Petition 33 / XIV / 1. a (Jonathan Ferreira da Costa et al.) — Against neo-Nazi conferences in Portugal and for the effective illegalization of fascist / racist / neo-Nazi charis groups. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have not finished our work yet, so I would ask you to keep quiet. Our session is not over yet. The fourth point concerns the assessment of Petition No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( Independent Union of Teachers and Educators ) — Consider aggressions to teachers and educators as a public crime. Strengthen the authority of the teacher and educator, along with the Bill No. 28 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Except for the need to complain and aggravate the criminal frame for crimes committed with violence in schools and their surroundings and adjacent facilities or against the school community ( 53 ). the amendment to the Penal Code) and with draft resolution No 612 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and respond to violence in the school context. of the fifth item is a legislative vote, which will take place at the end of the debate. Now, yes, we are at the end of our plenary meeting. I wish everyone a good rest of the day and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 8 minutes.]]
