ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, we will start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] of our agenda is, in the first item, the general discussion of Bill No. 891 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves the framework law on the allocation of the population category. To open the debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We commemorate for these days and years the 500 years of the reforming work of King Manuel I in the national legal order and in the territorial and administrative organization: the manual orders, the significant set of local reform produced by the new holes and also some features of uniform administrative reform in some areas of the administration, in what we would now designate as local administration. In particular, the so-called Regiment of the City Officers, Villages and Places of these Kingdoms, of 1504, where we may find a first effort of systematization depending on the nature of each locality, of each village, assigning it a proper legal regime and specific designations. Later, when our constitutionalism evolved and when the process of administrative codification, over the 19th century, if it was carried out, the direction of the legislator was different: no longer dependent on the category of town or city, characteristics in the plan of the administrative organization, and gradually the current local authorities — municipality and parish — became those that are decisive for the administration of the territory, its financing and its functioning. However, both the designation of city and the designation of village have not lost its relief and its symbolic, identity and cultural impact. It is precisely about this reality, which is very interested in the local self-esteem of the peoples, that we return to this issue and that we propose to this House the discussion of the adoption of a new framework law for the allocation of categories of the populations. Currently, we have 159 villages with the city category and 581 with the village category, and it is expressive that it has been in full democratic regime that many of the allocation options of these designations have occurred. This reflects an option of the democratic legislator to have a framework regime and also a desire of this House to match the aspirations of the people to see the evolution of their territory, their identity marks, their equipment and local development in each of these territories. Indeed, having, or not, a law is important to allow the Assembly of the Republic to frame and discuss the projects and requests addressed to it by the peoples. It was in this spirit that a diploma was built in 1982, which defined criteria, much denser than those that came from the medieval period and from the previous period, in which it was sufficient for a village to have been endowed with particular and a city to have a bishop, and turned to the population of each territory, to its area, to the equipment and public services that existed there as distinguishing factors and identifiers of a particular brand that could justify the allocation of the designation of a village or city. At the same time, the legislative assemblies of the autonomous regions, to which, in terms of our regional political and administrative autonomy, it is up to us to take these decisions for the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, have also developed regimes that adapt locally, in each region, to the specificity of each territory, this design of having uniform criteria, as uniform as possible, for this matter. However, with the entry into force of the 2012 legislation, which resulted in the extinction of several parish churches and which also reorganized the criteria for the creation of local authorities in the plan of the parish, inadvertently the legislator, revoked the legal framework which presided over this matter and allowed to identify criteria for the elevation of localities to the category of town and of villages to the category of city. It is precisely with the aim of having a framework regime that the Socialist Party presents a diploma that, essentially recovering the philosophy of the 1982 diploma, seeks to update the criteria that allow this identification, recognizing that the criteria that in 1982 identified the evolution of a territory may no longer be the most current to correspond to the evolution of a city or a village in 2021. In addition, and also looking for the good experience that resulted from the regional legislation of the Azores, it is also recognized, perhaps more symbolic than the other, but still we speak of symbols and essentially honorific elements in this legislation, the automatic allocation of the category of village to all the peoples who have already been headquarters or who, demonstratorly, have had a letter of particular that attributed the same status. So what we are exposing today and what we are trying to bring to the Assembly of the Republic is a regime that continues to be involved, ensuring the hearing of local authorities in the territories where the populations in which they intend to change their status, but also equip them with the possibility that they themselves will trigger and raise the issue by proposing to the Assembly of the Republic that they can address this matter. In addition, it is also recognized that sometimes it is necessary to define the perimeters of these territories which can be classified and qualified as a town or city, when this has not happened before, and it is also as far as possible that this matter is covered by that of the local Herald, which is also a matter that will end up having a direct impact, if this legislation is to be approved. This is not precisely about inventing the wheel, it is about restoring the wheel car which, inadvertently, has ceased to exist in 2012, creating a regime that meets the aspirations of many populations and that will allow the Assembly of the Republic, once again, to do what in democracy has always been able to do: interact with the local communities, with the territories and equip them with symbolic recognition, but still important, I am going back to say it, for the local self-esteem that this category can mean. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u3	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As everyone knows, raising a population to the category of town or city is a purely symbolic act, as it has already been mentioned, since there is no right or obligation to be, eventually, those associated with the heraldic. Similarly, this elevation does not result in any administrative or budgetary impacts. It is worth recalling that it was precisely in these assumptions that Law No 11 / 82 of 2 June was approved, which originated, among other legislative initiatives, the Bill No 143 / II / 1. the authorship of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PPM, which in turn drank a lot of what was contained in the Bill No. 318 / I, submitted by the Government of the Democratic Alliance of Francisco Sá Carneiro and Freitas do Amaral. Now, as we know, Law No. 11 / 82 of 2 June, which dealt mainly with the regime of the creation of the parish, was repealed, as has already been mentioned here in 2012, having been replaced by the New Legal Regime of the Autonomous Territorial Administrative Reorganization, which did not provide for the legal discipline of raising villages to towns or cities, creating a normative vacuum. It is important to note that in 2012 this legal discipline, over 30 years of its approval, was manifestly out of date and on that, I think, we all agree. The question that is now being asked is whether or not we should complete this legislative vacuum. That is, does it make sense or does it make sense to create a framework law on the allocation of the population category? We think so, we think it makes all the sense to create this framework law. Why? Because the community has always attributed fair relevance to these honorary distinctions, it has always seen them as the public recognition of the evolution and the weight of its history and the community itself has always seen these distinctions also as a strengthening of its identity. In fact, it is not by chance that we watch solemn and festive celebrations throughout the country to mark the day of the assignment of the category of town or city. We share this view and therefore the PSD Parliamentary Group will follow this initiative which, from our point of view, can and should be improved with the contribution of all, including civil society and the Academy. That is what we intend to do in the process of discussion in the specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u5	Mr José Maria Cardoso has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first question before the bill that is under consideration is whether the issue is pressing and whether it makes sense that it is being dealt with now. There is a point of departure that, for us, is important and with which we agree, that is, there is a legal void, of almost a decade, that needs to be repaired. This is the fundamental starting point. In fact, what is at issue here has no administrative or legal impact, it is, when much, a recognition of the evolution of the place, in its history, that may be relevant to the identity of the community. Therefore, it has an eminently symbolic dimension, with no reflection on the management of the city or on the response to the problems of the population — the first reason for the existence of administrative and territorial organisations. Today we have 581 villages with the category of town and 159 with the category of city. It is important to ask: what is it and what is it for? How is urbanity, the city's own way of life, which implies, increasingly, diversity, plurality, mobility, which are, in fact, distinctive reasons of what is an urban space and consequently a city? On the other hand, we need to realize what kind of cities we want, framed in the territorial and geographical space. We don't think it's exactly the same thing to create a city in a densely populated or low-density environment. It does not seem exactly the same to create a city in a peripheral area of a large city or in a rural involvement space. It is therefore necessary to reflect on these questions. The city can't just be a pile of people. We have many cities without urbanity and at the same time we have many cities without population. This project, being true that it seeks to create objective indicators for the evaluation of hypothetical applications, does not seem to us, or at least does not indicate, that it has reflected on these issues. For this reason, it is limited to re-entering the institutions or equipment contained in Law No 11/82 of 2 June. We agree that, over nearly 40 years, the measurement criteria or evaluation indicators will have to be clearly different. The explanatory statement of this project itself indicated such a claim, but, in fact, the differences in the law for the current project—with this time range of 40 years—are mere details. Let us see: in Article 5. o — Elevation to the category of village — of the 10 indicators presented, three are different, and two are new, because there were eight and it was 10, and another is different, because it removes an indicator that even we consider to be of great importance in measuring, at the moment, which are the collective public transport, which is set out in Article 12 ( d ). Law No 11 / 82. In addition, Article 6. o — Elevation to the city category — decreases the number of voters by 500, which seems to us to be of little significance, and is limited to reorganizing existing indicators and presenting as novelties: the business or industrial park and the technological or research centre. The copy is so faithful that it even occurs in a gross name error in point (h) where « pre-primary educational institution » is referred to. How many years ago, my ladies and gentlemen, are they no longer designated this way? Oh, my God! On the other hand, and no less important, are the requirements of public services of the central administration, in which we can incorporate hospitals, health centres, courts, schools, for example, which are not the responsibility of the population concerned. We know that these services have been removed from many of these localities, leaving people without access to them, and now it is intended to make them a requirement for access to any will or claim of any of the population. In addition, it should be noted that the same is true when it comes to the station of postal services or banking agencies. We see the struggle of so many peoples for the maintenance of these basic services. The populations were polished of the services, without any explanation, in many cases, and now their existence is presented as a criterion to satisfy, or not, this claim. For when a plan of restitution of these services, so that they can effectively be equationd as attractive and recovery of population from so many regions of the country, and that they can actually create conditions to form cities or villages. Finally, I would like to say that, like what is usually happening, there is nothing to be said about listening to the will and interest of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u7	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. How can you assess whether or not there is a local movement to defend the category elevation and whether this is the will of the populations? It is long time to create conditions for people to be really heard about decisions that concern them directly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u9	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u10	We, Block Left, are very advocates of participatory democracy practices and we will always fight for their implementation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u11	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this speech by noting that today the Council of Ministers has left a decision which we have already welcomed. This is a demand of the NAP to protect our children from the violence of the Tauromachic activity, a recommendation that the UN ( United Nations) had already made to Portugal and that the Government finally has the courage, after the NAP requirement, to carry out. Of course, Tauromachic activities are an unacceptable practice in 2021, but as long as there is no political courage to end these activities, it is essential that such steps be taken. [[PAN's applause.]] Having said that, and because we are talking about settlements, it is indeed important that there is a debate which should be deepened in particular. We are well aware that the allocation of the category of town or city to a village, in the background, aims only to ensure a purely symbolic and formal recognition of the historical specificities, identity and dynamism of the growth of certain populations. As already mentioned in 2012 we recorded the existence of 581 towns and 159 cities. I would like to recall, by the way, the words of the municipal law specialist Melo Alexandrino, who has come to reiterate the position that the existence of the categories of town and city has avoided, together with other factors, of course, a tendency to create new municipalities, saying that this trend could bring excessive weight to our country, from the budgetary point of view and from a higher administrative structure. But the truth is, with the revision made in the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, this vision was not at all present. by revoking the law that allowed the creation of towns and cities in our country, we ended up conditioning this territorial reform. Today we know how administrative and territorial reforms should not be carried out in our country, that is, as they have been designated, in a model of « rule and framework ». It is true that, in the field of expertise, we need to look better at these benchmarks. It is important to note that the Socialist Party's project brings, in particular with regard to the will of the towns to remain as villages, such as the cases of Cascais and Ponte de Lima. For the NAP, it will be essential, in the field of expertise, to provide that, in addition to the free initiative of the parties represented here, it is also possible to guarantee to the municipalities themselves and to the initiative of citizens and citizens who can bring their will to the Assembly of the Republic. Basically, greater participatory democracy is guaranteed. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u13	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u14	Mr President, today we are discussing a framework law on the creation of the population category, but having listened to the NAP to welcome the decision of the Council of Ministers on the prohibition, to children under 16 years of age, to attend the towers, I would like to say that this has more to do with the budget barge that we are living in.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u16	...and with the need to buy the vote of the PAN, than with anything else. In fact, the Council of Ministers was able to at the same time deny the characteristic of traditional cultural show in Portugal to the bulldozer and also deny the freedom of parents to be responsible for the education of their children with one measure. And everything on behalf of the budgetary barge with the NAP! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, with great sadness, I see that in many countries of Europe — this is the most relevant part — if you discuss how children will recover the time they lost in the pandemic, the time they could not normally have had classes. In many countries, there were classes in schools in the summer; in many countries, classes started early in September and were not waiting for the end of the month. All this has been discussed in other countries, but here we are discussing Tauromachic shows. It is the difference between those who care about equal opportunities and those who care about a lot more agendas — excuse the expression — folklore. Secondly, in relation to what we discussed about the framework law on the allocation of the population category, it is good to remember that this is, above all, symbolic. But symbolism is of some importance, so we will not be against this re-enactment, so let us say, until, with the symbolism and this will of many peoples, it makes sense that there are some rules of common sense that allow this matter to be regulated. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u17	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u18	Mr President, to begin with, I would like to mention the following: we are having this debate on the establishment of criteria for raising towns or cities, because at the time — this has not been said, but I would like to remind you, because I believe it is important at this time — the obsession of the PSD and the CDS-PP with the extinction of fragesias was of such a order that not only extinguished thousands of fragesias, as all legislation on this matter has been repealed. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not just legislation! [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] It's not worth it... it's still bothering you, is it? But it still bothers the people who have lost the parish! That was indeed a great loss for our country. [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]] I wish I could continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the honourable Member continue your reasoning and express it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was saying, the obsession was so much that they also repealed the legislation that established the criteria for the elevation of the villages to the village or city. In fact, this is an element which, for our country, has already used several terms, is symbolic because they contribute to the valorization of the peoples and the population themselves, to their identity, to their history, to their development. Therefore, on the part of the CFP, we have no objection to the fact that legislation on this subject is being laid down. It is also important to say the following: since so far there has been no specific legislation on this, the Assembly of the Republic has not been without this competence either. The Assembly of the Republic could always continue to legislate on this matter. On the concrete proposal that is under discussion, I would like to mention an aspect which, in terms of expertise, I believe can be deepened, filled, and there can be greater reflection and weighting. It seems important to us that there is a balance in the criteria to be defined in this area, bearing in mind, of course, the reality we have today. In addition to the need to pay attention to this set of criteria which have been approved, it is also necessary to bear in mind the historical-cultural perspective, i.e. a locality which is referred to as 'village', of course, must continue to have that designation because it is part of the peoples, their history and their identity. Finally, there is one aspect that we would like to underline. In the various criteria indicated, there is always a set of equipment and services that must exist for raising the village or the city. This also brings us another thought: there has indeed been a number of peoples in our country who throughout all these years have been losing equipment not because of their will, but because they have been closing by imposing successive governments. We can talk about schools, health centres and even banking agencies, CTT posts ( Correios de Portugal ). This is a reality that has also affected populations in a profoundly negative way. in this debate, the question of public services to which the people are entitled, the importance of ensuring in the villages and their proximity is relevant and we should consider it. As I said, we have no objection to the approved proposal and we will follow it. However, it is also important to see how we have come here and why we are having this debate. The PSD and CDS acted as if they did not have any responsibility on this matter, but we believe that it is not a minor element. It is important for the people, it is important for their valorisation and therefore the CFP respects the wishes of the people. We will also take account of the element relating to the exploitation of the populations themselves and their populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u21	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very curious to see how the NAP comes to this debate to praise the Socialist Party and its bills. We're actually seeing what the Budget is going to be like — the Left Block goes out and the PAN comes in! Someone must always be ready to give any hand when necessary. Better than this is only the memory of the PCP : any subject brought to the Assembly is related to the troika, the PSD and the CDS. There's nothing else to solve that's not the memory! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now tell you the following if your frankness with the Socialist Party actually existed, they should say that this law is worthless. They say that to raise the population it is necessary to look at the geographical reality, history and cultural identity. Any three-year-old kid wrote that out there and walked forward. This is a bad law! In fact, the Socialist Party itself says, at the end of its project, that this is only a first contribution to the debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to teach you the Mass, but the bills are not to make a first contribution, they are to legislate. This law is very bad and does not bring requirements, for example, how to raise the categories of municipalities. It does not define what it is, nor how a locality can be elevated to the population category. This law is worse than the laws of 1820 and 1822! This law is a legal disaster done in Parliament, with the extreme left saying that it is all right, that it is more or less. This law is very bad and it has to be said that it is very bad and that it is a very bad contribution to the debate! A group so large, with a hundred and such Members, could have done much better than what they did. This is no use! We approve this project or we do not approve anything, my friends, it's exactly the same thing, it's like the Best: it's not good, it's not bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u23	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Paula Santos, on behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, revealed the outrage of her bench because of the circumstance of legal discipline on the raising of villages to the category of town or city has been revoked, but does not challenge the de-updating of that same legal regime. On the other hand, Mrs Paula Santos has also revealed her indignation at the fact that this legal void has been created for a long time, but she has forgotten to mention that since the day the PSD has ceased to be the support party of the Government on 26 November 2015, until the date of submission of the Socialist Party bill that we are now considering, five years and seven months have passed. This was the time the Portuguese Communist Party had to present, in this House, a bill to eliminate this legal void. But, Mrs. Member, you didn't, did you? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u25	The Assembly has not lost its competence! You didn't hear everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u26	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, I thank you for the contributions of virtually all the parliamentary groups and all the Members who spoke — not exactly everyone, but I will go there. I believe that there is a general consensus on the need and usefulness of this initiative. Of course, it corresponds to the aspirations of local populations and also corresponds to the desire to listen to all concerned. Mr André Ventura, this is how you legislate, Mr André Ventura! We do not arrive here with an attitude of "we have the answers all" and we automatically dictate to the other members of the House what the law is going to be. Don't! A legislative process begins with a proposal and is available to listen to who is inside the House, who is outside the House and who is interested in collaborating. That is how parliamentary democracy works, and I am glad that it is how parliamentary democracy works. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u28	It's terrible!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u29	what we are talking about here is just trying to evaluate the best way to update these criteria, hearing, finally, both the contributions mentioned recently by the Left Block, both those of the PCP, and those of other Members. The point is this: that we have the opportunity to see, with civil society, that other criteria can help to densify this regime. There is no obstacle or willingness to remain exactly as it is in this proposal, which is in fact part of the 1982 criteria, and only those points that seemed absolutely unequivocal have been updated. In addition, we do not want to force anyone to rise to a different category, because there are many villages in the country that prefer to keep this own charm of village — Sintra, Cascais, Ponte de Lima — and keep it. No one's thanks. It's just a college.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u30	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u31	Mrs Paula Santos is right when she says that the House has always been able to continue to legislate in this respect, but, curiously, she has not done so and has been inhibited precisely because she acknowledges, as has also been emphasized in this debate, that it is preferable to have uniform guidance criteria that have some rationality and rationality. It is therefore useful for this initiative to be approved and discussed in the future. The criteria are here, they are likely to discuss and deepen. Finally, Mr President, noting an important message for all those who intend to represent their populations, understanding and respecting their aspirations and knowing their local history. On 1 February 1988 the village of Moura was elevated to the city, corresponding to an expectation of the populations. Therefore, respecting the residents of Moura and claiming to be your president of the municipal assembly may mean listening to what people are actually saying and not using them or manipulating them for other purposes! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to those who, in that place and elsewhere in the country, want to value their towns and cities, it would be important to have the ability to approve a quite consensual diploma in the democratic parliamentary arch. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u32	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, I apologize for saying that he had already exceeded time, which was not true. The time shown in the table was not up-to-date. We will move on to the second item on our agenda, which is from the assessment of Decree-Law No 51 / 2021 of 15 June, which approves the Consular Regulation[ Parliamentary Assessment No 51 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). To open the debate, Mr José Cesario of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: At a time when the generality of our consular posts is in imminent collapse, requiring emergency measures, the Government decided to amend the Consular Regulation, considering this necessary change to ensure the modernisation of the consular network. Nothing more wrong! Those with the consular problem know that some of these changes will decisively affect a set of consular posts essential to support various communities, especially in more peripheral areas. Firstly, the elimination of vice-consulates and honorary consulates themselves in the category of consular posts is a gross mistake that will have strong implications for the services provided to users and for our political presence in cities and regions to which we are historically very linked. It is clear that its possible transformation into simple consular offices is far from corresponding to the real interests of the State, noting that the rush of the government to announce the creation of new career positions in some cities concerned, ignoring others, already after the published decree. It was the purest improvisation. It is obvious that, in practice, in some of these places, Portugal will no longer have anyone to maintain the link to local authorities, the follow-up of our communities and the promotion of our economic and cultural interests. In fact, it is unthinkable, for example, that our representation in Rio Grande do Sul and Paraná is ensured through diplomats placed in São Paulo. Clearly, such a solution will not work. But above all, it is important to take into account that this decision has also prevented senior technicians from accessing the post leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, internal services or other external services, which could have happened so far in the case of the vice-consulates. Of course, this decision, in practice, in addition to sectarian, has been removed from the head of highly competent and multi-purpose posts which guarantee the execution of all types of consular functions. This also results in a clear error, certainly resulting from those who have a limited, corporate and conservative view of consular service. It would suffice to have done careful analysis of what happened in 2019 and 2020 in posts with similar characteristics, such as, on the one hand, the Vice-Consulates of Curitiba or Belém do Pará, as a mere example, and, on the other hand, the career positions of Belo Horizonte, Salvador or Brasilia. The truth is that in the first, with fewer employees, more citizen cards or passports were issued, among other acts, than in the last. The numbers don't lie! in the same way, it would have been worth making a serious assessment of the process of transformation of the former honorary consulate of Santos into a consular office, to realize that another very serious mistake was made, destroying a service of excellence and transforming it into a real disaster, with unequivocal damage to the affected populations. On the other hand, it is also highly questionable that honorary consuls can only issue temporary travel documents, thus leaving passport processing under identical conditions to consular posts, whose list disappears, which may also penalize communities around the world. The fact is that the Government would always have the opportunity to assign such powers to those and only those who had very clear conditions for the performance of such tasks. All of this is objective facts. And for all this, the PSD, responsibly, could not stand to watch the continuation of the total failure of the current management of the consular network. We would like, with the proposals we have put forward, to make a useful contribution to avoiding more mistakes and thus to save this fundamental policy for network management. from there this parliamentary assessment process. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u34	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The new Consular Regulation that the PSD calls for it to be appreciated plays a very important role in adapting consular care to technological developments and dematerialization of acts, particularly with the implementation of the new consular management model, while giving consistency to the functioning and organization of consular structures. It is unfortunate that the PSD completely ignores all these important aspects. The PSD focuses mainly on the extinction of the vice-consulates, which is not surprising since there is no intention to close posts, but rather to increase the level of State representation and provide a better and more valued service to Portuguese communities. We cannot help but miss this sudden PSD devotion by the vice-consulates, because, last time they ruled, they soon extinguished five of a seat, without any compassion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u36	Bankruption!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u37	It is worth recalling: in 2013 the PSD extinguished the Vice-Consulates of Frankfurt, Osnabrück, Nantes, Lille, Clermont-Ferrand, and the consular section in Andorra, without leaving any structure—and this is important to say—to meet the needs of our communities. This does not count on the posts it closed in 2003, but also almost everyone in Europe. But, curiously, he spared the vice-consulates of the electoral circle by which Mr. José Cesario is elected,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u38	For God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u39	... which now seems to happen again since, of the current eight vice consulates, five are in Brazil, where the PSD has manifested its influence. There is still another incongruence. It was also during the black period for communities that the PSD/CDS government extinguished the categories of vice-consul and chancellor, turning them into technical coordinators, which had a very negative effect on bilateral diplomatic relations, having decharacterized the functions that were traditionally recognized by host States. But at least the PSD tells you what's coming. In other words, whether governments are free to appoint persons from their confidence, who are political appointments for the performance of a public service which, in principle, must be freed from sectarianisms which may possibly disturb the exercise of these functions, which must always be exercised in an independent and efficient manner, regardless of who holds the positions. This request for Parliamentary assessment, as it is presented, still contains a disappointment which could well have been avoided, since it places in an absolutely unnecessary competition the incumbent diplomats of the positions and the appointed officials, which is very unfair for both. Indeed, both one and the other deserve sincere praise for their commitment to the proper functioning of the posts and their relationship with our communities. Whatever the case, looking at the heavy past of the PSD in terms of the closure of consulates, exactly in the period when Mr Cesario was Secretary of State of the Communities — I mean the abolition of more than 500 post officials and for never having advanced one centimeter in terms of modernization in the service — this request for appreciation is no longer an act, I am sorry to say, of great hypocrisy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u40	They left the safes empty!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u41	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u42	Mr President, very late to all and to all. First of all, I begin by sending a special greeting to the Consular Workers' Union, Diplomatic Missions and Central Services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been tireless in defending consular workers. The decree we are considering today was criticized by the NAP at the time of its publication, because the Government decided to approve it without even listening to the representative organisations of the workers, going beyond what the Constitution or the Labour Code provides. That, in fact, is regrettable. But in addition to this constitutional problem, which is now unsanitary, this diploma has many shortcomings which Parliament can and should improve. The NAP is here to bring this improvement, presenting several proposals, of which I highlight only five. First proposal: we want to prevent the extinction of the vice consulates, which is a strategic error, since it removes the response capacity with small structures of the thematic and local structures, wasting the successful experience of the vice consulates headed by superior technicians. Secondly, we want senior technicians to be valued in the structure of consular services, something that the government does not ensure, treating them as second staff and sometimes putting them behind those entities that are hierarchically inferior. Thirdly, we do not want this regulation to simply ignore the existence of permanent consular presences, such as in Lille and Nantes, and therefore we propose that they be referred to. Fourth: We want workers affected by honorary consuls to have more rights, namely, a maximum duration of the assignment, installation or accommodation allowance and travel expenses. Thursday : we want to take this opportunity to enshrine in the law the general principle that the remuneration of workers of the external peripheral services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is determined only in euros, in order to avoid cases such as what we have seen in recent years in Brazil. As the wage is fixed in reals and at a fixed exchange rate, there have been strong breakdowns in income and great difficulties due to strong variation in the purchasing power and value of local currency. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u43	Mr Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The newly approved Consular Regulation establishes a set of new rules for the Portuguese consular network, which is therefore a normative status with enormous relevance, not only for the Portuguese communities scattered around the world but also for those who perform functions in the service of the Portuguese State abroad. We begin by lamenting once again that the process of drawing up and discussing Decree-Law No 51 / 2021 of 15 June, which approved the Consular Regulation, did not count on the contribution of the Consular Workers' Union, Diplomatic Missions and Central Services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that participation in the drafting of labour law represents a fundamental and inalienable right of trade unions. We must also note that in four years of the existence of the Consultative Body of the Portuguese Communities, the Government has not requested its opinions on matters relating to the Portuguese communities, in particular on civic and participatory issues. However, an advisory body exists for that purpose to be consulted. As the PSD points out in the explanatory statement of this parliamentary assessment, the Left Block also considers that the experience resulting from the vice-consulates was positive, especially because of the information that has come to us from both users and workers. This is why the actual or progressive extinction of this solution is not understood, even more so when it is the vice-consuls themselves who know the Portuguese communities most of their jurisdiction and who more support the needs of these people who want to move to places to solve any problem of the community, either to facilitate and expedite the outcome of a simple bureaucratic process. In other words, the new Consular Regulation effectively prevents those who have the most knowledge about the Portuguese community, who have more contact with the community, from accessing leadership places, which, in our view, seems to us to be a completely unobstructed decision. For this reason, it would have been important to make a comprehensive balance of the work done in the vice-consulates, listening to communities and workers about this restructuring. It is also not understood that under Law No 66 -A / 2007, counsellors have not been integrated into the advisory councils of consulates and that this matter is again covered by this regulation, as already provided for in that law. Furthermore, this is a Consular Regulation which seeks to dematerialize a number of consular acts, which we hope will contribute to the improvement of the services provided to the communities. But, as we know, the consular network needs much more than that: it needs to have human and physical resources that enable it to meet the real needs of the Portuguese community living abroad. To this end, it is necessary to invest in the working conditions of the workers of the external peripheral services, who continue to have to safeguard the operation of the services without the minimum working conditions, while at the same time working to ensure their survival abroad, with wages far below the actual cost of living in the countries where they live. That is why, Mr Minister, the Left Block argues that, once and for all, Portuguese foreign policy is directed at the Portuguese communities and not only towards the economic and investment attraction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u45	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs: The CDS is curious to see the proposals for the measures provided for in the new Consular Regulation. There are, however, some issues that need to be guarded. In accordance with the PSD requirement, questions arise about the role of the vice-consulates and also about changes in the competences of honorary consuls, and there are still other doubts that the diploma raises us. Vice-consulates at the service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and at the service of Portugal are dispersed in Europe, America, is the case of France, Spain, United States of America, countries where, in fact, access to the Internet is universalized. But we have situations like those of the vice-consulates who are in Brazil, where only 83% of households have access to the Internet. This is important to say. The dematerialization of all consular acts that do not require the user to be present with consular services is a good principle, provided there are such means, that internet. Otherwise, it is not only useless how it ends up translating into abandonment, as it has happened, unfortunately. This Regulation shall keep these vice-consulates in operation as consular posts until their extinction. And the extinction of these vice-consulates therefore has to follow the inherent logic of this new Consular Regulation, ensuring consular support 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. It was a sign that, in fact, we began to see the reinforcement in Toulouse, but that is a great challenge, yes, especially thanks to Brazil and its community of more than 200,000 Portuguese. We cannot fail to comment on the amendment of the powers of honorary consuls which, under the new regulation, are prevented from being allowed to issue travel documents. This amendment presupposes that the Portuguese State will abdicate a wide network of existing communication channels, which is especially important for the maintenance and growth of foreign investment in Portugal as well as for the companies themselves. Finally, we also want to leave another point of view very clearly. As we have recently left it clear, digital services are not in fact a guarantee in themselves of close contact between Portuguese communities and citizens entitled to the protection of these same consular services in Portugal not only under the law of the European Union but also under international law. Episodes such as those reported by the averages that occurred in recent weeks regarding the lack or inability to respond, in the face of several requests made to the Portuguese Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan, reveal that there is, in fact, not enough an electronic address, a form, a site or a telephone contact to which you can connect. The human role is replaced only to some extent by the Consul-General of Portugal itself, in Paris, having mentioned on 12 June this year that the social services of the consulate have been able to follow several situations. This consolation remains for us. There is not much need, enough attention and many of the problems that seem to have no solution can be solved. Therefore, it is necessary for the Government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to follow up this process of modernisation and digital transition in the case of measures provided for in the specific new consular management model, but also through various human resources qualification projects provided for in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ), so that they are behind proximity, which is required and which is important. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u47	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, I imagine that the Portuguese who reside abroad and are accompanying this debate are either upset or perhaps even angry at the way the debate is being done, at least by the terms in which the PSD and PS have addressed this problem which we are dealing with today about amendments to the Consular Regulation. This is because the accusations that « You are preparing to degrade the consular network! And that "No, you have degraded, you have closed! Indeed, the only thing they confirm is what the CFP has said successively, about decisions that have been made by successive governments regarding the degradation of the response that must be given to our communities according to their needs. I was here to make an effort to remember, but I confirmed in the meantime — that in 2012 I had the opportunity of myself, at the invitation of the Portuguese Communities in Germany, to participate in a series of initiatives, because the then Secretary of State of the Communities, José Cesario, had decided to close the vice consulate of Osnabrück, which had under his responsibility an area of 63 000 km2 — i.e. a corresponding area, more or less two thirds of the continental territory — with 23 000 Portuguese, who felt purely and simply abandoned with that decision taken by the Government regarding the closure of that vice consulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u49	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u50	Mr Minister, if we cover the name of the author of the assessments that were made at the time on the criticisms of the decision taken by the PSD/CDS Government in relation to that vice-consulate, I would say that those reasons for justice for which the Portuguese communities, at the time, have struggled to prevent the closure of that vice-consulate, are exactly the same as those that justify the concerns of the Portuguese communities on the issue that is now raised. We have heard from the Socialist Party that the amendments to the Consular Regulation, in particular the elimination of forecast, in Article 3. the, vice-consulates and honorary consulates, do not mean an intention of disarticulation or deletion, but of improving the consular network. I would like to know, in particular, Mr Minister, how many honorary consuls and how many vice-consuls will assume the responsibilities of consulates, how many of them will be converted into consulates. And I would also like to know that this decision will correspond in terms of strengthening the capacity of human resources, of the capacity to respond to such simple questions as, for example, the renewal of identity documents, which continues to be a calvary for thousands of Portuguese people throughout the world. We realize that, in the decree itself, in Article 20. , the existence of honorary consuls remains to be envisaged, but what we really want to know - and that is the question I wanted to leave to Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs - is in particular the intention of the Government corresponding to this intention of the Socialist Party. What is the real commitment of the Government to strengthening the Portuguese consular network? Looking only at the letter of the law, we have only reason for concern and we need the Government to tell us whether these amendments in the law will correspond to decisions of opposite meaning, i.e., if disregard, so say, from a formal point of view, of vice-consulates and honorary consuls, it corresponds to an intention to invest in the consular network, with the creation of consulates, in particular with the extension of the number of consular posts from the point of view of their highest categories. These are absolutely nodal questions. I would also like to know, Mr Minister, in particular what this corresponds to, for example, the strengthening of the number of workers and their capacity to respond. It is necessary to know whether the questions that have been asked by consular service workers and diplomatic missions on, for example, wage updates, social deprotection and lack of coverage in health systems—such as the case of a disease situation in which there is a consular worker in the external peripheral services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who no longer has access to health protection—are resolved and whether all these issues, too, we can rely not only on the commitment but on the concrete action of the Government to improve and strengthen the capacity of the consular network to respond to the needs of Portuguese abroad. I would also like to say that more than we are interested in whether or not the consular network is an instrument of political appointments and of party satisfaction of the interests of those in the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u51	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u52	... — I conclude, Mr President — as previously resulted from the interventions made, particularly by the Socialist Party, we would like to know, above all, whether the Government is in a position to meet the real requirements of the Portuguese community abroad, which are whether or not they have better services through consular posts. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u53	For an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u54	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: I would like to commend the PSD for the schedule of this Parliamentary assessment of the new Consular Regulation, because it allows it to reinforce two important aspects: the first is to clarify the issues of the PSD, the second, and most relevant to us, is to show the value that this new Consular Regulation brings. Now, on the first point, I believe that at this time of the debate, it is clear that the reclassification of the vice-consulates is aimed at strengthening the number of career positions in the Portuguese consular network and, as a result, the professionalization and improvement of the service that is provided to our communities. As for the second aspect — in our view, the most relevant and completely ignored by the PSD — this new Consular Regulation allows to implement the new consular management model that will profoundly transform the service provided to our communities, I would even say that it has almost revolutionized this service. This is because we talk about consular services that were, at best, provided from 9 hours to 17 hours and are now being provided 24 hours a day. Consular services provided from Monday to Friday become available 365 days per year. Consular services that were many kilometers away become away from a click on the computer from anywhere in the world. If it solves all situations, no, it doesn't solve, we know it doesn't. But it is this path of investment, of deburocratization, of modernization, of technological innovation, which, in fact, has been a brand of the Socialist Party, which we want to keep going. The conclusion we come to is that the PSD, on the other hand, prefers to stick to the past, without answers to the real problems of the communities. To conclude, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reinforce that this new Consular Regulation means a paradigm shift in how we respond to the needs of our emigrants scattered around the world. It is a decisive step in adapting the consular structure to the new realities and needs of our communities. However, we must continue to invest to ensure that the problems our communities feel are overcome. This is the compromise we reaffirm. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u55	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u56	Mr President, I have heard Mr. Paulo Pisco come here and say that the PSD has great responsibility for closing the consular structures. But I will remind you, Mr, that in 2008 it was the PS that closed several consulates in Paris. And you know what the irony of this story is, sir? Imagine who was then the director of the Socialist Party's international relations? It was Mr. Paulo Pisco! It's funny! Open... The honourable Member then said, and I quote: 'Close consulates are sometimes a way of modernization. It is essential to modernise so that the Consulate-General of Portugal in Paris can ensure these powers'. Now, come here to say that the Social Democratic Party has closed consulates, as if you had no responsibility in the disappearance of I do not know how many consulates! Mr. President, you must have a lot of cans! I have nothing to do with the PSD, but it takes a lot of time to say that. [[PS and BE protests.]] Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, two issues very briefly and precisely. As for e-Visa and the online consular register, which are consolidated in this diploma, what monitoring mechanisms are assured to ensure that we will have no problems, as we have had in Islamabad and other Portuguese diplomatic units? That is, are the monitoring mechanisms guaranteed or not, since from now on we will have essentially electronic communication, online, in some acts as fundamental as the allocation of documents? Finally, in relation to human resources, it is known that these structures have a fundamental lack of human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u57	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. Its multiplication or even its dematerialization will certainly require a strengthening. We would like to know how, in what terms and with which budget this is planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u59	The Minister for State and Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for this opportunity to highlight the importance of this decree of the new Consular Regulation. Its main objective is to improve the services provided to Portuguese people scattered around the world. The Consular Regulation is oriented towards that which is its essential purpose, not to say that it will give greater importance to diplomats or less importance to superior technicians, but to improve the conditions by which the Portuguese State fulfils what is a basic constitutional imperative, which is to treat Portuguese residents abroad, recognizing them all the rights, with the attention and affection they deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am therefore delighted to know that the frameworks of the new Consular Regulation did not deserve a single criticism, from which I assume they deserve all support. And it is very important that this general support of the Assembly of the Republic should be given to all efforts to modernise and improve the quality of the service provided. The Consular Regulation had to be revised for a very simple reason: we could not move forward with the consecration, which we want to be effective, of the possibility of any Portuguese resident abroad at any time of any day, any week, any month, any year, to be able to access consular service. The consecration of this possibility involved providing for this fact in the law, online electronic payment and the rule that no act that exempts the physical presence of someone in a consulate should constitute a reason for forcing that person to make an unnecessary trip. It can and should do so, if it is understood that this is the best condition, the best method of access to consular service, but it should not be forced to do so unless its presence is essential, for example, to collect biometric data. The simple consular inscription does not require physical presence in a consulate, but, in order to consecrate it, it was necessary to review the Consular Regulation. This explains the revision of the Consular Regulation. This is a very important instrument for a new model of consular management. And because we had to make this review, we also used it to clarify and strengthen this other essential function of the State that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through its external peripheral services, provides, which is the support function, protection in emergency situations because Portuguese abroad can pass. Security issues, disaster issues, accident issues, all of this implies rapid, timely intervention by the competent services and we have taken advantage of the revision of the Consular Regulation to make this clear as well and to modernise and further dignify the Portuguese consular network. That is why I cannot understand the obsession with the figure of the vice consulate. The vice-consulates, for example, in the United States, are not recognised as consular posts and therefore call them vice-consulates - it seems to me to diminish the statutory importance that the consular post must have, either in front of us or in front of the country in which it is implemented. Therefore, we have evolved in order to consecrate two consular posts, general consulates and consulates, which then define their most capillary network in the country, according to technical criteria. To that end, we need to review the Consular Regulation, but the current vice-consulates will continue until they are transformed into another consular post. Therefore, the issues of continuity and stability are guaranteed. This is not a matter of labour law, it is a matter of organizing the network of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I therefore believe that this debate serves to show the importance of improving our consular network and thus improving the quality of the service we provide to Portuguese abroad. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u61	I have the floor, for one speech, which will also close the debate, Mr Carlos Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u62	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: We are here today to discuss this at a time when our consular network is experiencing an unparalleled situation in our democracy. Our consular services are experiencing unprecedented ruin, even in some countries on the brink of collapse. Portuguese residents abroad wait and hope for an agenda to make their identification and travel documents, for example, or sometimes for someone who pays the phone to give them information. And, from now on, I leave a note to Mrs. Lara Martinho, who apparently with a click can solve the problems, to tell the emigrants of the Azores who are around the world how it is that with a click on the phone they can have a passport, a citizenship card, a notarial act or even, better, a simple scheduling. [[PSD applause.]] This is a situation which, unfortunately, is no longer confined to consular posts with chronic problems, such as London or Rio de Janeiro, is a general problem. Until the jewel of the crown that has already been mentioned here, the Consulate General of Portugal in Paris, lives a situation never known, with schedules beyond the spring of next year. We have successively come to draw the Government's attention to this situation, but we have never been heard. And the situation would be much worse without the dedication, commitment and effort of consular workers, who, regardless of the issues of their career, make an effort by Portugal, by the Portuguese who live abroad, who sincerely deserve more attention, but this is a subject that we will have the opportunity to discuss again in this House. Unfortunately, in these six years the government has only made announcements and more announcements, without really acting, which already foretold the dramatic situation that the consular network is now living. We remember the Citizen Space and still today we talked about the consular management system, promised for 2018 — no mistake! — when we are at the end of 2021. by amending the Consular Regulation, the Government lost a great opportunity. The decree we now consider aims, according to the Government, to adapt the consular organization to the new realities and needs of Portuguese emigration, but unfortunately the result of this Consular Regulation is precisely the opposite. Indeed, as my colleague José Cesario has already said, the government has a limited vision, a corporate vision, a conservative view of consular service, which is above the interests of our communities, the interests of people, the interests of our employees, that is, the interests of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u64	Just as our communities are increasingly divided around the world, we will stop doing a part of the proximity monitoring because, as has already been said, we do not know how it will be possible to replace small structures, whether vice-consulate or honorary consulates, which served our communities, by career consulates. Will we be so rich? There are countries with a GDP (gross domestic product) far superior to ours that adopt very different consular networks and meshes, because they realize that we cannot have career consulates in all countries of the world, but we must be close to people with administrative service. One leaves, still, for the Socialist Party : it was here remembered that, in the time of the PSD in the government, we will end up consulates. Mr Deputy, in 2008, was the 25 consulates extinguished by the Socialist Party. It was 25!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u65	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u66	And now, another note: we did not extinguish the chancellor's place, it still exists! The suddenness, in politics, gives us this: there was a mistake on your part. [[PSD applause.]] Just as our communities are increasingly divided around the world, and all politicians say so — Portugal is in one hundred and such countries — we will move away from close contact and, above all, we will cease to be close to our citizens abroad, a proximity that is justified, an proximity that is essential for the relationship of these Portuguese with their country, with our country, with Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u67	To close the debate, you have the floor by the Government, the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, honorary consulates will not be extinct. I created more honorary consuls than the government before the previous government. Consular posts will not be diminished, on the contrary, will be prestigious. What despices is using ambiguous formulas, ambiguous words, or use them as a reason for useless and dangerous discussions, for example, about the reciprocal relationship between non-diplomatic officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and diplomatic officials. They are all officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all deserve our respect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand the concerns and I was asked, in particular by Mr João Oliveira, what was the commitment I could make here. Well, my commitment is my practice, to use a terminology that you know well, as I know. My commitment is my practice: during my nearly six years of mandate, more diplomatic missions have been created, the Portuguese diplomatic network has increased and diversified its geography, more consulates have increased, the Portuguese consular network has increased, the number of employees, both diplomats and technical staff, both in the internal services and in the external services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If the gentlemen. Members should consult the statistics of the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment have such documentation that is accessible and can see it. in the same way, they have also increased the additional services available to our emigrants and their descendants, including through various digital platforms. Therefore, this practice is the best compromise I can make here, because this is not the way to weaken the diplomatic network, it is not to weaken the consular network, as others have done before, but to strengthen it, always with this objective, which is that we do not use as our criterion of particular interests and, yes, the general interest of Portuguese communities living abroad. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u69	Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, very late. With regard to this parliamentary assessment, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give two information to the plenary. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of Parliament No 51 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) have introduced two amendments, one from the PSD and the other from the NAP, which fall to 2. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u71	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We will enter the third item on our agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill Nos 872 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extension of the deadline for the conversion of the Urban Areas of Ileegal ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 880 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extension of the deadline for the conversion of the Urban Areas of Ileegal ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ), 913 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Extension of the deadline for the conversion of the Urban Areas of Ileegal ( sixth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September ) and 967 / XIV/ 3. a (PAN) — The extension of the deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and guarantees transparency mechanisms in this process, amending Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September. in this sense, to present the initiative of its parliamentary group, has the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This schedule responds to a request from a group of municipalities, researchers, residents, associations, who aim to ensure the recognition of urban territories of illegal genesis. These actors also understand that the legislation that has been changed over the years is highly bureaucratic, has failed in the regulation, in the instruments available to municipalities, in the financing and in the limited flexibility for the range of cases that occur. And numbers don't lie. This is probably the reason why about 60 % of the AUGI (urban Areas of Ileegal Genesis) are still about to be reconverted, it will probably also be due to the lack of adequate law to various social and urban problems, which, who have directly dealt with the law, have been identifying. In March 2021 we started a set of hearings in this House, at the request of the Left Block, as a way to respond to a concrete request from the City Council of Sesimbra. It is true that the Government could have met this need and proposed an integration of the AUGI, with its improvement and articulation of legislation, with the new generation of housing policies. It did not and therefore we started this discussion here to review the response to urban areas of illegal genesis. And we started the discussion for something essential for the AUGI that has not yet been converted: the extension of all deadlines, because the identification, the setting up of administrative committees and the obtaining of conversion titles, at the date we speak, are not possible. Any of these processes, within the framework of this legislation, are stopped. This means that the law practically does not exist and once again can not proceed to the constitution of these entities, to push out the process of obtaining the title of conversion or to the identification by the municipalities of the need to initiate processes. This is all the more serious as the first report made on the application of this law by government agencies was concluded only at the beginning of 2020, when several of these dates had been exceeded and the end of the possibility of obtaining the conversion certificate was approaching. This report contains the identification of the problem of only 14 municipalities and demonstrates that the need for a conversion law is far from being necessary. There is therefore a great deal to be done to ensure that these territories of human occupation are recognized and the infrastructure, urban and social problems that arise are solved. As an example, data relating to the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, obtained in a research project called Urban Reconversion and Reintegration of Ileegal Neighborhoods, realize that less than half of the AUGI — we speak of about 45 % — has obtained the title of conversion to proceed to the licensing process. More than 15 % has not yet started the process and almost 40 % is in progress. These 40%, for example, are not able to complete the ongoing process at this time and in some cases these processes have been going on for more than 30 years. Central State support to municipalities, owners and residents has been one of the frequent requests of the entities involved in the urban conversion process. It is important that this is possible under Programme 1. the law and, in fact, could have been exceeded by regulation of an article of this law itself, which remained in the drawer, in particular Article 56. o. It's true that now the 1st. the law seems to attempt to fill some of these funding failures, however, the heavier infrastructure remains to be guarded. There is still a need for a systematic identification of social and urban issues that do not fit into legislation and understand how they can be equalized, either through existing solutions or others to be found. We are also concerned about the deepening of the involvement of the residents, not only of the owners, but of those who actually live in these houses. Often tenants are placed outside the process and the security of their access to housing is not guaranteed. The resolution of these problems could be more rapid and effective and, once again, be done in conjunction with the new generation of housing policies, with 1. the law, which, according to the Government, will be implemented until 25 April 2024 and will allow the elimination of housing shortages and outrage in our country. We therefore propose that the deadlines for the diploma be extended at least until that date so that the proceedings can continue, maintaining the law in force and allowing a process of thorough review to build solutions to the problems identified. May it be from this that the bureaucracy that penalises people and the territory, the municipal urban management and the quality of life of the residents should be overcome. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u73	Also to present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis, the AUGI, has been shown to be morbid and complex. during these years, the process of conversion of the AUGI has been confronted with several difficulties that have prevented its completion, namely economic difficulties for the fastest procedure for the completion of the proceedings; the need to facilitate the licensing, registration and notaries of the process of legalization and cost reduction; the lack of knowledge about the process of conversion by individuals; the difficulty of demonstrating the financial viability that the law imposes and the verification of conflict situations with the municipal directors plans; difficulties in the framework of the management committees and their operation, which have often led to the lack of confidence by the residents themselves. It is true that the approval of the law of the AUGI, as it was known in 1995 at the initiative of the CFP, has given a boost to the process of conversion and legalization, and since then there has been a greater commitment of co-owners and administrative committees in this process, but it is also true that it is far from being completed. The emergence of urban areas of illegal genesis dates back to the period of fascist dictatorship, as a result of the inability to solve the problem of housing for families, especially in metropolitan areas, also associated with the displacement of rural populations to urban areas, in the search for better living conditions. With the democratic regime and the approval of land planning instruments, the emergence of new urban areas of illegal genesis should not be possible. For the CFP, the process of reconversion and legalization of the AUGI should not be eternal, on the ground that the expectations of its residents are undermined by the definitive resolution of this issue: the legalization of its housing, the guarantee of living conditions, infrastructure. However, since there are numerous conversion processes to be implemented, it is necessary for the law of the AUGI to remain in force. This legislation was very important for many AUGI to be converted and now legalized. Despite all these years, this law continues to have a set of instruments that facilitate the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis. The CFP therefore proposes the extension of the deadline for the delimitation of the AUGI and the establishment of the Administrative Committee until December 2023 and the conversion title until June 30, 2026. I also take this opportunity to put forward the following on the initiatives under discussion here today in the Assembly of the Republic. With regard to the project of the Left Block, we believe that it presents a set of inconsistencies, in particular by establishing the same deadline for the delimitation of the AUGI, for the setting up of the Administrative Committee and for the allocation of the conversion title. In other words, according to the proposal, if it is possible to delineate the AUGI and allow the establishment of administrative committees until 25 April 2024, it is not possible that the conversion title is assigned within that same period. With regard to the PSD proposal, we are, of course, available to deepen the discussion, in particular on the proposal for the urban conversion process can be made by implementing units. In essence, this is a question of scale. Regarding the NAP, there are a set of proposals presented, but for those aspects and difficulties that are identified in this process for urban conversion, it seems to us that these proposals do not give an effective response to the root causes and constraints that are identified. There is a great deal of concern on the part of the authorities and the residents that the law has ceased to be in force since July this year. They stopped having a legal instrument to advance the process. In our view, therefore, the extension of the deadline for the law is indeed a priority and for our part there is a willingness to find solutions to eliminate constraints, to speed up proceedings and, above all, to solve the problem of these residents. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u75	Mrs Filipa Roseta from the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: This is a subject that brings together a broad consensus, and still well. 26 years have passed since the establishment of the legal regime for urban areas of illegal genesis, as amended by Law No 91 / 1995. Although there is a legal period of 30 June for the regularization of these processes, the reality shows that in many municipalities there are open cases, which need more time to solve the pending bureaucracy. The urban areas of illegal genesis are expression, in the territory, of a lack of housing; they are expression, in the territory, of a lack of planning; they are clustered with constructions based on informal division of land, with a part built even before 65, before the first legal regime of urban batches, and were delimited by the municipalities themselves. Urban conversion begins with the approval of a lottage, or a detailed plan, to try to approach that cluster, made in an informal way, of the characteristics of the surrounding city. The aim of the conversion is always to provide habitats, from the entire urban environment. AUGI routes, infrastructure, parking, equipment or green spaces are often lacking. In January 2020, the Directorate-General for the Territory ( DGT ) published a report on the diagnosis of various conversion processes, looking for the causes that could explain the delay of so much bureaucracy to be resolved. A number of factors were identified as potential causes, including size, incompatibility with municipal plans, servitudes, natural risks, the modality of conversion, the situation of infrastructures, implementation of them, the participations that were still lacking by owners, the situation of illegal buildings, the functioning of the administrative bodies and up to the age of the co-owners themselves or members of the board of directors. This is the most violent thing! They are people who live in bureaucratic nightmares, often for decades, afraid of dying without knowing whether they will leave their children a dwelling or bureaucratic nightmare, with which they have lived for decades. This DGT report, despite its importance and detailed analysis of a set of municipalities, reflects only a small part of the national reality—are only 14 municipalities that submitted surveys to SI-AUGI, are 5% of the municipalities. It is not possible to measure how many people are living this bureaucratic nightmare permanently. Note that we may be talking about somewhere between tens of thousands of people to hundreds of thousands. It is a very large phenomenon and we really have to strive to solve it in people's lives. There is an enormous consensus on the issue of deadlines and I also agree that it must be brought down to the committee to discuss exactly what is the best way, because it is a specific issue. In all the hearings we had, within the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, with the parliamentary groups, Directorate-General of the Territory, municipalities, university researchers, all considered this to be a process that had to continue, it could not be closed here. It's just that we're not facing a mere delay. It is important that we all realize that we are not facing a mere delay. This extension of the deadline is a political palliative, but it is necessary to have a much more comprehensive and systemic view, because this is a structural problem, it is not a conjuncural problem. Therefore, in addition to extending the deadline, we propose two more amendments: we introduce the idea of bureaucratic simplification, clarifying that municipalities can use the figure of the implementation unit and not just the Plan of Detail and Planning — which is a way to make it much easier and much faster, if it is included in the Municipal Director Plan— clarifying that this can be done in this way, and, above all, what seems absolutely fundamental to me, we introduce the idea of the AUGI policy, like all politics, but, in particular, the policy of the AUGs, must even be a data-driven policy. This survey which has been made must be carried out annually, systematically, until the phenomenon is over. Every year you have to come to the Assembly of the Republic with a report on everything that is going on, in order to understand what is going on in the country in order to be able to design policies that can help people solve this problem. Therefore, in view of the levels of non-compliance, the law has to force this way of reporting continuously, over time, data related to AUGI. In conclusion, I would just say that, in our view, we all seem perfectly capable of finding a consensus in committee, and therefore we think that this can go down to committee and be discussed. And it is really urgent for us to do so, because whoever lives with this nightmare for decades, without knowing whether it will leave a problem or a home, it is a drama that we do not want to remain in the lives of people who live it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u77	To present the initiative of your parliamentary group, Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The maintenance of urban areas of illegal genesis does not meet the right to housing enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Housing Bases Act. The legal deadline for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ended last June 30, 2021. However, the process is far from complete. According to data from the 2020 General Directorate of the Territory's report, in a universe of 278 municipalities, only 14, i.e. 5 %, submitted the surveys of existing AUGI in its territory. It is therefore essential to extend the legal period for the conversion of the AUGI in order to allow them to have a valid administrative committee constituted until 31 December 2023 and a conversion certificate until 30 June 2026, and that the municipal chambers may delimit the AUGI until 31 December 2023. In addition, we have proposed that more training and clarification be provided for the municipalities regarding the process of urban conversion of the AUGI and also the establishment of a transparency mechanism involving the Assembly of the Republic in monitoring the implementation of the conversion process, guaranteed by an annual report of the Directorate-General of the Territory. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I take advantage of this debate to recall an AUGI in Lisbon, the Quinta do Ferro, held in about 60% by the city of Lisbon, and where in the middle of the 21st century there are spaces without a bathroom, without water and without light, without sanitation, where it rains and with housing at risk of being destroyed. The requalification project has been stopped for four years. So far, the City Council of Lisbon, in the face of this human rights attack, what have you done? He built parking and installed parking meters! Many residents believe that the requalification project does not take place due to the pressure of real estate interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept this attack on human rights. In addition to extending the deadline for the re-qualification of the AUGI we must be able, in the Assembly of the Republic, to monitor the implementation of these projects and do everything within our reach so as not to allow situations like the Quinta do Ferro to continue to happen in this country in the middle of the 21st century. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u79	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, I now give the floor to Mr André Pinotes Batista. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u80	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The issue we are currently discussing, the problem of urban areas of illegal genesis, is not new. As Mrs Roseta had the opportunity to say, 26 years ago she has been discussed, but it is important that we also speak with some clarity. When the honourable Member says that «is the expression of the lack of ambition that existed in the past», she is quite right, namely that there has not been a clear bet in housing, which is already happening. If this care had existed for decades, we would not be facing this problem today, with successive extensions. But it is important to realize that if this history has existed for a long time—and here I also want to welcome the role of the authorities throughout the country and not only that of the Assembly of the Republic and of the Government, that, regardless of their political colour, they have made a very great effort to involve themselves, and to involve very different partners—in the name of equity and social justice, it is also important to say that if the example that Mr. PAN used earlier is true, and there is no way to hide it - it is also necessary to highlight the heterogeneity that these situations involve, because we are not only acting for people who are in need—and these are of great concern to us—we are also acting for people who, in the absence of a legal context, in the absence of their own legislation, built their own housing and, and, as it is evident, we must also act in the safeguarding of these people. We are not here to bleach the needs that exist, but we cannot be ignoring that this heterogeneity, from the point of view of the socio-economic origin of these problems, is relevant to all of us. In this regard it is important to say that, in addition to the issues that have to do with the locations, and which ultimately compete for this heterogeneity that he was talking about, they also create some impossibility. It is true what has been said here and the Academy has often been discussing this, but there is a question that, with all honesty, we must put — and the tone of this debate is quite pedagogical — which is why so many years. And the reason why so many years has to do with some limitations that deal with our environmental concerns, with our security concerns, which deal with the lack of infrastructure that ultimately cost these families, some of them, as I have already had opportunity to say, with difficulties. The infrastructures have had a great investment on the part of the authorities, but obviously governments and the Assembly of the Republic also have to play their part, not only as partners, but also in modernising legislation. And what we find extremely relevant has to do with the following: the bills presented today deal with different subjects, ranging from deadlines to execution units, or, in the formulation of the NAP, more related to information, training and monitoring, all of which are relevant. And if there is a consensus that we can work on solving the problem and hurrying this solution, so let us work, and it is clear to us that the complexity of the subject itself will lead to the immediate resolution of this problem by no law. But I still want to say that we can't just extend the deadlines and we even have an opportunity to improve legislation. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will be available, aware of the difficulties that have been presented, which, in fact, seems to us to be transversal to all political forces and allows me, without disrespect for any of the other discussions, to say of the enormous intellectual seriousness that has guided all the interventions, because this is not a simple dossier and it has local power, as is the case with the CDU, the PCP, the Greens, the PSP, the PSD and also the CDS know what this is in practice. I therefore conclude with this idea: there is not only a consensus on the question of extending the deadlines to deal with a concrete and short-term issue, but also the need to improve legislation, which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will be available to do elsewhere. Above all — and I end with an idea that has already been drawn up here — the important thing is to solve people's problems, also realizing that the context of these people is not all the same and that some people need special attention, and for that reason the housing policy we have followed is also fundamental. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u81	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of the AUGI is, in fact, a topic of greater relevance, since it involves private property and the housing of thousands of families. For various reasons, urban growth in Portugal was not always done in a balanced and orderly manner, particularly in the municipalities of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. In the 1960s and 1970s they emerged and grew up at the gates of Lisbon and the Port numerous clandestine neighborhoods. in other places, instead of buildings, houses were built. Portugal has come to have the largest clandestine neighborhood in Europe. The law of the AUGI, which we have discussed today, has effectively been able to solve many situations as well and, in some ways, we can even affirm that it has been successful, because it has allowed many of the processes of conversion to be accelerated and unlocked many others. We recall that the objective of this law was, on the one hand, to halt the emergence of new AUGI and, on the other, to encourage, through an exceptional and temporary regime, the legalization of these clusters and their integration into consolidated urban areas. The law also made it possible to speed up the completion of the conversion processes that were under way before they were created and others, of similar characteristics, subsequently initiated, whose legal barriers were finally resolved in this legal framework. However, a relevant set of situations and processes did not find in the law a response to the problems they discussed. Some AUGI did not, unfortunately, become demarcated; others have not yet started their conversion process; others, still more often, have initiated their conversion process, but 26 years after the law came into force, have not yet concluded it, leading even many families and many people to despair. The law of the AUGI does not comply with or respond to the diversity of situations that can be included in the concept of AUGI, nor to the diversity, size and specificities of problems that exist in each municipality. All municipalities are different, all municipalities also have different regimes. from there, the law gave legal and technical response only to the standard situations for which it was designed and without large conditioners, whose owners were organized and had their own resources and necessary to convert and legalize their lot and fulfill the duty of conversion. However, it has not been able to resolve more complex situations, with greater socio-territorial problems, which require a more comprehensive approach, greater solidarity and interaction among stakeholders, greater commitment and more public funding. The CDS, of course, agrees that the deadline laid down in the AUGI law is extended, but cautions that the deadline should be extended successively without seeking to understand why it is not met, because at the end of this new deadline we will be here again to extend it. We must address real and concrete situations in order to resolve them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u83	The Bureau asked the parliamentary groups that still have time to sign up for the debate. Otherwise we will immediately switch to the closing phase. [[Pause.]] This seems to be the case and, therefore, for a closing intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An opportunity for discussion is open and the proposal to extend the deadlines in the law is precisely for the maintenance of legislation while we have the time needed to work on this process with the complexity we have on the table. We are faced with the expression of housing problems and demographic transformations that have occurred over the decades. Space is, in itself, a social producer and the image of the country's economic and social situation, of the past, of the lack of response to housing shortages and migration. It is up to us now, and it seems to us that ultimately, to ensure that there is a law that goes beyond the problems identified in the past, not insisting on the mistakes of these changes that have been made and that seem to have harmed more than improved legislation. It is also necessary to ensure strict regular monitoring and what the Left Block proposes this afternoon is that we start by ensuring that the ongoing processes continue, through this extension of the deadline, and we succeed in working on those so many others who, for various reasons, are not able to move forward. For this, we really need time, and one thing allows us to do the other, and I think we owe it to the people, to the people who live in these spaces, mainly, and who need a concrete answer to this dilemma, which has lasted several decades. in this sense, it seems essential that this process be discussed in the field of expertise and that we can implement the resolution of the bureaucracies inserted in this legislation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u85	With this intervention, we end the third item on the agenda. We now enter the fourth point, which has, as an object, the discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, and tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Labour Law in Public Functions) and 955 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Restores the value of additional work and the right to compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation, proceeding in the public and private sectors. To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To report to all workers the amounts and the rules for calculating the payment of overtime work, additional work and work on a working day — 50 % at the first hour and 75 % at the following working day and 100 % on a weekly or working day — and to ensure the right to compensatory rest is the proposal which the CFP brings to debate. Today, for hundreds of thousands of workers, both in the public sector and in the private sector, additional work is a constant of their lives. This means that, in the normal working hours, often unpaid working hours are added, either because they are thrown into the bad bank of hours, or because employers do not pay workers those extra hours. It should have been about 500 000 workers who, in 2020, made extraordinary hours: workers of the SNS (National Health Service ), public school, social security, local authorities, security forces and services, and many other public services, as well as many other workers of the services considered, then essential, such as workers of social solidarity institutions, large distribution, contact centers, restoration and digital platforms, with the delivery of food and other goods, for example. These workers kept the country functioning, guaranteed widespread access of the population to essential goods and services, but more than half of these workers did not receive the extra hours they worked and many of them received them with cuts in their value. These workers worked on rest days on weekends on holidays and were not entitled to compensatory rest, nor to their payment of 100 %, because the cut of 50 % on the amount paid for the additional work and the denial of compensatory rest, imposed in 2012 by the PSD/CDS Government and that the PS has refused to change, remain, so far, registered in labour law. Until 2012, workers were entitled to full payment and compensatory rest for additional work on rest days, holidays and overtime. From 2012 onwards, in addition to the 50% cut in payment of these hours, the compensatory rest was eliminated. to employees of the Public Administration, since 2013, on top of this court, the PSD / CDS government applied a cut of 25 %. It is true that since 2015 the situations covered by collective bargaining provide for payment without reduction, it is also true that workers who are not covered by collective bargaining keep cutting in the value of extraordinary work. Even in the sectors and companies covered by collective bargaining, the employer has refused to pay the additional work in full. in this discussion, it is also important to highlight how the additional work is used and abused by the employer to avoid hiring more workers. For example, in 2019, workers in our country have worked more than 4 million and 700 thousand extraordinary hours per week. It is not hard to see that many jobs would be able to be created with this work further. But the devaluation of the supplementary work goes hand in hand with the low wages and precariousness, with the deregulation of working hours and with the hourly banks, instruments used so that extraordinary work is not considered as such. Deep down, it's working time that's not paid and it's bubbles for patronage. But we have added another element to this discussion: over the years, additional work has changed the rule in the lives of hundreds of thousands of workers and their abusive use has called into question the right to articulate professional life with personal and family life. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the path that responds to the needs of workers, the people and the country is that of valuing work and workers; of the urgent general value of wages and the increase of the national minimum wage to €850 ; of the valorisation of careers and professions; of the revocation of the expiry of collective bargaining and of the replacement of the principle of most favourable treatment; of the eradication of precariousness; of the fight against irregular hours and hourly banks; and of the reduction of working hours, by the right to decent hours and time to live. This is a path that requires the defence of jobs, a brake on redundancies and the reintroduction of rights to workers faced with this situation, a path that requires the replacement of all the rights amputated to workers, in successive changes to labour law, an unacceptable path. It is urgent and full justice to guarantee all workers the right to compensatory rest and the due payment of additional work, because there is no development of the country without employment with rights and this is the discussion we are having today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u87	Also to present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Prime Minister was this morning at the meeting of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to announce the proposed laws discussed in the Council of Ministers, including the so-called 'Agenda for Deserving Work'. This agenda was organised by the Government in order to unravel the proposals in the maximum number of measures — it seems to be going to be in 68 — and, in so many dozens of items in that document, there was no room for some simple proposals, such as those we are now discussing. The document that the Government intends to mark in the coming weeks is, above all, marked by intense and notorious absences. How do we defend the decent work without putting an end to "strengthening" standards that offend the dignity of the people who work and who only have the purpose to show that their rights are worthless, such as the rule that prevents workers from contesting illegal dismissals, that norm, which has been kept in the law, by decision of the PS and PSD, less than a month ago? Oh, my God! How do we classify the rules of the troika on layoffs and overtime but as attacks on the dignity of work? Oh, my God! Let us look at the example that we are discussing and which will be voted on tomorrow. It comes from January 22, 1915 — I repeat from 1915 — the Republican diploma, signed by Manuel de Arriaga, which laid down in the Portuguese law the limits to the working time. This law, differentiated for trade and industry, had a standard on the subject we are discussing today: it established that, whenever there was extraordinary service in trade, each additional hour of work would be paid for twice the normal time. It is not worth making the whole history of these rules on overtime, but it is worth noting that it came from 1919, that is, over 100 years ago, the law which established the maximum of 8 hours of work per day in trade and industry. Also in this law of 1919 the payment of overtime was established by double. We had the fascism, which kept the payment for twice the overtime on a weekly rest day and reduced the increase to 50 % in the remaining days. It's been decades. There was a revolution, democratic standardization, the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), the 1990s, and we arrived to 2012 with the extra hours to be paid by the double on the holiday day, with an increase of between 50 % and 75 % on the other day and with an additional compensation due to the increase in rest time. He had to come to the troika and the most aggressive right government in 2012 for this heritage with more than a century to be thrown into the trash. With the changes introduced by the PSD and the CDS in 2012, the compensatory rest was eliminated. That is, if, in a year, a worker did 160 hours of extra work, he has worked five more days since 2012 without earning anything more for it. In addition, the value paid for extra hours was also reduced: the value was cut to half; in the first hour, from 50 % to 25 %; in the following hours, instead of 75 %, it increased to 37, 5 %; on the holiday instead of being paid for twice, as it was more than a century ago, the increase increased to half. What about this troika law unless it is an offence to the dignity of work? What about this law but it's an offense to a world's work heritage, which the troika wanted to annihilate? And what about a Socialist Party government that joins the right to keep these cuts, while advertising an agenda for decent work that aims not only to keep this cut, but also to cut off on vacation days and redundancies? Aren't you going to make the holidays, the protection against layoffs and the fight against the abuse of overtime extra part of an agenda for decent work? According to the official data of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics), there are about half a million workers who perform extraordinary hours in our country. On average, these workers are 315 hours a year and many of them have not been paid. The cut to half of its value has a double effect: on the one hand, it cuts income to these workers; on the other hand, the elimination of compensatory rest and the embarrassment of overtime are standards contrary to job creation and job completion. It is therefore an invitation to fill out overtime jobs. If, perhaps, all the extra work was transformed into a new job, we would be talking about some 54 000 jobs. Will it not be part of a work agenda that is worthy of the fight against overtime? We understand that. We understand that, as a constitutional imperative, a decent agenda of work is the promotion of employment and not the maintenance of measures like these troika cuts that we are discussing today and which inhibit the distribution of existing jobs. Today, the Socialist Party has the concrete opportunity to show that it is available for dialogue and to defend this Republican heritage in the world of work. If you choose to join the right to keep these cuts of troika, PSD and CDS, in the law of work, you will be giving proof of negotiation intransigence, absence of openness to elementary measures of justice and incomprehensibility to dialogue with the left on the most basic of the basic: the defense of the dignity of work against the offenses that the right introduced into the law to humiliate those living in your salary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u89	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The precariousness of work is a social scourge, a scourge that affects all sectors of life and generates professional, personal and family instability. It happens that this insecurity and instability are not exhausted in the type of work link. It is in working time that resides one of the main factors of exploitation of workers. Data from the National Institute of Statistics show that more than half of the overtime hours, i.e. hours worked outside normal working hours, carried out last year were again voluntary work for employers. Unfortunately, this situation has been repeated over the past few years and it is here, firstly, that is the biggest problem, because what these data show is the existence of a real work custom that has been perpetuated over the years. The underlying problem is not only solved with the value that is actually paid for by the additional work and complementary to the worker. The problem begins with the fact that these additional hours are not paid at all. If they are not paid at 25 %, 37, 5 % or 50 % more, as is currently stated in the law, and if nothing is done in the meantime, then nothing will make us believe that they will be paid at 50 %, 75 % or 100 %. With this, we do not want to say that the percentages that we saw have been stoned with the previous legislative amendment should not be returned, because, of course, the lower the payment of the work provided in this regard, the greater the promotion of this type of work, since the greater the value gained and subtracted from the worker's income and, consequently, the less the incentive to hire. There are cases of true similarity to the « pay one, pay two» promotions, but in this case we do not refer to rice packages, but to workers who are sometimes paid as one and do the work of two. How often do the workers feel that there are hours of entry and not exit, that the very culture of the structure in which they are integrated is to work more hours, not as an exceptional effort, which can happen sporadicly, but as an implemented rule, and that, when they leave in due time, feel that they are taking the afternoon? Oh, my God! The current situation, aggravated by the pandemic, which created a culture of being always connected, is becoming a lifestyle totally contrary to people’s health and well-being. Rest periods are of enormous importance, with the aim of enabling the worker to recover physically and psychologically, as well as the development of personal and family activities and social, cultural and playful charities. It is necessary to change the work paradigm. It turns out that the paradigm is not changed in mentalities if it is allowed to permanently use extra work not paid as a normal custom, masked by the « shirt dress ». [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u91	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today projects of the PCP and the Left Block to increase the value paid for the extra work, which, of course, will come from the budget of the companies to pay to the workers of the private sector and the State budget to pay to the workers of the public sector. The PCP and the Left Block always begin the exhibition of reasons for these projects by always making the same mistakes, of course ignoring the post-pandemic situation we live in, the change in the strategy that the country must have for the economy and in social terms, and also with that speech trying to blame a PSD/CDS government — such governments that you call right— as if that government had exercised functions last year or had to do with the State budgets of two, three years ago, or four years ago. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u93	But you have to remember—and you have to assume once and for all this responsibility—that in the last six years the country has been ruled by the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CFP. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u94	And if the workers' rights have been reaped, if the workers have seen promises that have not been fulfilled, it is the fault of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP. The time has come, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this magnificent triad assumes its responsibilities because of the discontent of the workers. It is that this speech of being constantly accusing the right—there are already six years that do not rule the country—no longer glues. And you don't want to take your responsibility. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the message the PSD intends to convey on this subject is that we defend that work is paid in a dignified and fair manner. We defend that there is no abuse in the use of overtime so that the worker will not be harmed in his personal and professional life, but we also defend and value — there is no novelty — the role that collective bargaining has in this matter, the path that collective bargaining and that the agreement between employers and workers can do, even in order to bring more advantages that go beyond what the Labour Code already gives. We therefore greatly appreciate this aspect of collective bargaining. We would also like to say that if we are thinking more about what are structural changes to the Labour Code, we need to move these proposals through social dialogue. And we do not know the agenda that the Government has at the moment in social dialogue. We will, of course, follow up some proposal which comes to this Parliament and which goes through the creation of an understanding between government, employers and workers. We never oppose ourselves and we will make it possible for what we have here to do. But we have a question for the Socialist Party, which also creates some doubt and some perplexity. We have seen in this Budget—which is already public, which the country already knows—a value which indicates that in 2022 the country, in the case of the public sector, will spend more than 29 % on overtime than in 2021. So let's see, in 2021 we were able to get out of the pandemic, the country has already surpassed the pandemic, and in 2022 there is a forecast of more than 29% spending in extra hours in the State Budget? Oh, my God! We don't know the justification for this number. If the Socialist Party can thus explain, we thank you. I would also like to say that the Government of the Socialist Party does not manage well—I have already said several times—the Public Administration. It is a personal opinion, but it is also an opinion of the ideology of my party which, with all taste and conviction, I defend. This question of not being able to define the priorities for the Public Administration and for the workers and of being constantly promising everything to everyone does not come to a good outcome, neither for the workers nor for the country. The PS did not learn from the crisis in which it left the country immersed in 2011. The PS promised public administration workers that the salary increase for public servants would never be less than 1 %. Are you going to do it? No, no, no. I'm lying! He said he would review the careers and the pay table of the Public Administration. Are you going to do it? No, he's not. He didn't do it! He promised to move in the performance assessment of Public Administration employees. Did he? You didn't. He didn't do it! And he promised, for example, with regard to precariousness, to reduce the number of contracts in time, to go in the direction of what the PCP and that the Left Block so much ask — the reduction of precariousness. Did you reduce the contracts in time? Don't! He lied to the country, he didn't meet, and fund leaves the workers unhappy. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be available to enable a solution to improve the living conditions of workers, with more and better rights. But you have to be serious and you have to speak the truth to the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u95	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the legislative initiatives of the CFP and the Left Block discuss the reform of labour legislation, aiming to reverse it, which has allowed it, we must not forget — its modernisation, economic growth and job creation. We therefore have once again an episode of an attempt to reverse the payment of the additional work. Mr President, these attempts to reverse are essentially based on unrealisticism, and even negotiations and discussions are taking place in this direction, exacerbating the costs of companies, harming the creation of wealth and investment and, consequently, also harming employment and workers. We now have many companies with difficulty in keeping their doors open. In fact, the proposals result from the pure ideological prejudice of the left, which, as we know, want to impose conversions without leading them to social consultation, once again disrespecting the dialogue and the various agreements reached by the social partners, always putting workers against employers. The Labour Code which is in force, Mr President, results from agreements in social consultation, where employers are represented, where workers and the government are represented. In this regard, it is also important to recall the « Commitment for Growth », an agreement — underlining, an agreement — concluded in 2012 by the social partners who served as the basis for the revision of the Labour Code promoted by the PSD / CDS Government. The position of the CDS, Mr President, on these matters is very clear: these are matters that must be discussed in the context of social consultation. However, we must also state that the reforms which the Communist Party and the Left Block intend to reverse have allowed to reduce unemployment, increase exports, reduce the number of insolvencys and increase the competitiveness of companies. These reforms were positive for the country. The additional work must be paid, yes, and must be paid in a just and dignified manner. It must be paid, yes, but it is in fact up to the social consultation of these negotiations and that understanding. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u97	Mr Fernando José of the Socialist Party spoke to the next intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the initiatives of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, reaffirming that we continue together to combat the scourge of work insecurity. We thus continue on the right path towards the future. A path along here with assertivity and without taking a step back in the conquests achieved. A future with more and better rights for workers, in which decent work for all must be placed at the centre of inclusive sustainable growth and development policies. However, the profound technological changes, the expansion of digital platforms, robotics, automation will, according to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), lead to 32 % of jobs undergoing significant changes. New challenges and opportunities are thus placed. The organization of work, working relationships with new models, digital platforms, collective bargaining with new audiences and new negotiating themes, new ways of providing work, distance work and telework, but also the reconciliation between professional and family life should not be disarranged from other important themes in this common objective of production of a decent work agenda. The issue that the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block put here today is very relevant and deserves careful reflection, from the outset the importance of ensuring stability and predictability for all labour market players, in particular in a framework of uncertainty of the new crisis, motivated by the pandemic and of which, fortunately, we are recovering. It is this stability and predictability that allows for example the increase in national minimum wage by more than 30 % since 2015 to have no impact on employment. But stability is not synonymous with immutability. And this is an important issue, not only for businesses, but also for workers in the organization of work, in employment patterns, in people's incomes, in reconciliation, once again, between work and family life. And regarding the organization of working times, it is important to remember that in 2019 the individual time bank was extinguished. It is therefore necessary to strike a fair balance between ensuring the capacity to respond to the extraordinary needs of businesses and the economy and the appropriate remuneration for the increased effort that they require, especially in cases of greater use of extraordinary work, also preventing excessive overburdens on workers and, perhaps, favouring the creation of new jobs. We therefore have in the promotion of the decent work agenda, the protection of income, the fight against precariousness, the promotion of collective bargaining, the deepening of active employment policies, inclusive social protection and the protection of the most disadvantaged segments will be priorities in political action. Priorities that should not be framed by, for example, the need to regulate new forms of work associated with the digital economy. It is therefore necessary to deepen and improve labour legislation, but not in isolation. As we know, since 2015 important steps have been taken in valuing decent work, such as in combating precariousness and wage recovery, by increasing national minimum wage. A course with the left in the replacement of rights, combating precariousness and creating better conditions and greater stability for Portuguese workers. Despite the context and the challenges of an unprecedented pandemic crisis, this was the path that we continued to follow with resilience, determination and pragmatism. And this is the way we will continue to go. The achievements of recent years must be densified and the answers to the new challenges realized. And, of course, it is necessary to continue to do even more and better, it is undeniable what has already been achieved and that it must be valued and reaffirmed at every moment: the increase of the national minimum wage, the full replacement of wages and holiday and Christmas allowances, the replacement of 35 hours in the Public Administration and the defrosting of careers, the replacement of holidays, the increase of the compulsory enjoyment by the father of a parental leave from 15 to 20 working days and the reduction of the maximum duration of the fixed term contracts from three to two years and of the uncertain term contracts from six to four. The integration of thousands of precarious workers in the Public Administration, which the right would like to fire, is an example of a path taken so far. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, despite what is stated, we recognize that there is still an important path to be taken, a path that we are available to continue to do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u99	This, therefore, is the time for dialogue, it is time to create consensus, consensus that effectively corresponds to the real interests of workers and the business fabric. This is the time to act articulatedly, with effective solutions. This is the time for, from the agenda for decent work, we will find the answers to what has not yet been done and, on this agenda, we will also find the necessary answers to the future of work with even more and better labour rights. This is the path, a right path, towards the future, without leaving anyone behind and without taking a step back in the achievements achieved and objectives outlined in the agenda for decent work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u100	You have the floor to close the debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira, which has 2 minutes and 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u101	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Mrs Carla Barros and Mr Pedro Morais Soares also discussed the issues of social dialogue. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the Assembly of the Republic has been elected by the Portuguese people to make a number of decisions, in particular on matters of labour law. We do not underestimate the role of the Assembly of the Republic in this matter. Moreover, the Assembly of the Republic was elected, which, as it should be said, did not happen with social consultation and, as such, it is also the Assembly of the Republic which has power and, of course, also the responsibility of deciding on matters and policies of labour law. And, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Carla Barros and Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, however much they say, do not erase the responsibilities that your government has had in the past, for having devastated the lives of workers, with cuts in wages and rights. And here we remember that the bill presented by the PCP contains proposals that correspond exactly to the value that you cut with the changes made to the Labour Code in 2012 as well as the remainder of the labour legislation. We are talking about the replacement of rights and income that you have taken from the workers to put directly in the bosses' pocket and that we understand the fullest justice that they are returned to the workers. Mr Fernando José, we have recorded his speech and the words of the PS. It is also important that in tomorrow's vote the various parliamentary groups that have spoken here, which have expressed much concern about the living conditions of workers, make these words correspond to the approval of the CFP bill. We are talking about restoring rights that have been cut off to workers, and these have been waiting seven years for these same rights to be restored. And this is not because of the lack of proposals from the CFP, because we have presented them in this House several times, but because of the lack of political will of the other parliamentary groups. Today, we insist on the fairness of this bill which means the replacement of rights, the valorization of additional work and also the improvement of living conditions for those who live in their wages and their work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u102	The joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos. 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 955 / XIV / 3. a ( BE), we turn to the assessment of the Resolution Project No 80 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — For an integrated family recovery and birth policy. For the presentation of the draft resolution, Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the fall of birth is recognised as one of the major dilemmas at national level. Low birth and increased average life expectancy compete decisively for the ageing of the population and have created cross-cutting problems that we cannot ignore. Portugal currently records the fifth lowest birth rate in the European Union. The problem is not recent, but recent data confirm it. According to preliminary data from Census 2021, Portugal today has fewer than 200 000 people than it had in 2011. In the first half of this year, birth has reached the lowest of the last 30 years: only about 37,000 babies were born, the lowest since 1989. Our continuity as a community, the social balance of our society, the vitality of our economy and the financial strength of our state and our social model depend decisively on the reversal of the low birth trend. Contributing to the resolution of the demographic challenge has long been one of the priorities of the CDS's political action. It is our conviction that the State should focus its policies on promoting an environment that allows families to choose freely to have more children, if that is their wish. There are, however, several areas in which the State has acted as an obstacle to increasing birth, such as the high tax burden imposed on families, the insufficiency of the network of services which does not provide, a legal framework which has been hampering the reconciliation of family life with professional life or even the rigidity of the mechanisms to support maternity and childhood that the State itself establishes. Once again, trying to contribute to the resolution of this problem, the CDS presents today a package of measures aimed at providing families with the best conditions to carry out their projects to have more children. By reason of this draft resolution, we recommend to the Government: for this draft resolution, we recommend to the Government: for this draft resolution, we recommend to the Government : to the Government: to consider not only the active entities, but also the number of dependent persons in the assessment of the situation of economic insufficiency for the purposes of the exemption from moderate rates; to recommend to the Government: to the Government: to consider the new active entities, but also to consider the number of dependent entities in the assessment of the situation of economic in economic insufficiency for the purposes of the exemption from moderate rates of moderate rates; to develop family tariffs in the water, gas and electricity sectors; to develop family tariffs in the sectors of water, gas and gas and electricity; to develop new and electricity and electricity and electricity and electricity and electricity; to develop specific incentives for the construction and rehabilitation of buildings; to create specific requirements for the construction and rehabilitation and rehabilitation and rehabilitation of buildings with superior types of assets; to encourage, exploitive uses and profitable assets and profit-free assets; to ensure the use of the use of the use of the job creation of the job creation and profit-less assets and profit-less assets and profit-less assets; to which are intended and profit-less assets; through cooperatives; through cooperatives; through cooperation agreements, through cooperative agreements, through cooperative cooperation agreements with social security with social security, through cooperation agreements with social security, through social security, through social security, through social security, social security, social security, social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security; to establish, to establish, to establish, to establish, to provide, to establish, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide the means, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide the creation, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide, to provide the means and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security and social security; to [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u104	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thinking about birth policies implies ensuring that the country implements policies capable of creating decent living conditions for each of the children in the present and future. We need to think about policies that invest in the effective management of resources, in the protection and rights of our children, which ensure the necessary answers to the exercise of parenthood, in a perspective of reconciling family life with working life, with the right to leisure, the right to rest and the right to the environment. Thinking about birth policies implies fighting structurally the conditions of child poverty, ensuring the conditions of access to quality education and health, ensuring decent housing, preventing contexts of violence, ensuring the quality of residential reception of children who are in the responsibility of the State, because they had to be removed from their contexts. The economic problems of social security cannot be solved with this simple formula of increasing birth. As long as we spend more on the disease than on its prevention, while not thinking in the medium and long term for future generations, it will not be through the birth policies that we will solve the structural problems of sustainability of the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the NAP, birth is fundamental for what it represents for the individual, for the family and, where appropriate, for the couple, and not for the socio-economic and demographic issues that, by itself, bring. A child is worth it, not by the added value that can bring from the point of view of the demographic pyramid. Therefore, we understand that it is essential to ensure that all families, single parents, little or very numerous, can have dignified living conditions, that every child born in our country knows that their protection and their rights are guaranteed and that there is a response to their needs. Therefore, the NAP will support proposals that aim to reconcile working life with family life and create support structures for all families, whether they are little or very numerous, responses and policies that invest in child development and support the problems faced by families, ensuring, above all, a longer time for motherhood and paternity. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u106	The floor is now for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP today brings the debate to an important point for the present and the future. Portugal has been showing a negative natural growth rate since 2007, with a significantly lower birth rate than the mortality rate, which has implications for our population index and the age structure of the population. But the policies that have been undertaken in Portugal have followed a logic of deepening the problem described, when the living conditions of the Portuguese generality are not improved, when they are removed substantially and lastingly, by purchasing power, when access to employment is hampered, when the deregulation of working conditions is not attacked, when uncertainty in people's lives is the only certainty that they are assisted, when housing is increasingly a mirage for the costs it entails, when the option is no other than to return home to their parents for economic incapacity. The answer to the question asked a few years ago by a President of the Republic is clear: 'What is needed to bring more children into Portugal? » The Greens must respond, putting an end to the anti-natalist policies that have been promoted. We have come to this debate and we are surprised with so much concern by the CDS-PP. They remind us that they have made a report, but they do not want to be reminded that after the report they were government and, in terms of support for families, it was the collapse. They speak of multidisciplinary vision for the family's appreciation, but in the 15 proposals that they present to us they do not once speak of the reduction of working hours or wage increases. Everything will be resolved by the accreditation of the Portuguese standard. They remind us that they have put forward a proposal that has been piped, but they do not want to be reminded that the Greens have an initiative, also in this House, against which the CDS voted. And what do the Greens propose at that time, which shocked the CDS so much? The Green proposals propose: combating unemployment and promoting job creation, notably by reducing working hours without loss of pay; ensuring that no woman is fired while pregnant or puerperous; ensuring that unemployed workers have social support that enables them to sustain themselves; combating precarious work, allowing the principle of employment stability; working to increase the wages of Portuguese workers; generating a social support policy that is encouraging the increase in birth rates, notably through support for children through family allowances; promoting a policy, in the context of education, health and transport, which provides free access for children and young people; creating an extended public network of day care; taking priority over combating poverty. But with these proposals, the CDS is bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u108	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is known that, in Portugal, the projects of kinship that people want cannot be carried out, because, to a large extent, there are no conditions for them to be taken forward. For this reflection and for these choices of people, families count, and much, the issues of employment and work, stability in employment. Eight out of every ten new jobs that are created at the moment are precarious work, and that makes all the difference. And when we discussed, as we discussed above, overtime, pay for work, workers' incomes, hourly banks, liberalisation of working hours, deregulation of working hours, the impossibility of reconciling work with personal and family life, we are discussing the conditions for people to carry out their parenthood projects. That is why, when the CDS brings this issue to debate, knowing us the CDS register in the liberalisation of hours, in the degradation of working conditions, in the reduction and cut-off of the income of those who live from their work, we frankly have some difficulty in knowing whether the CDS seeks to ignore its own course and its proposals or if it tries to make us believe that the problems of parenthood are solved by what it presents. How many times have we proposed in this Parliament — and the CDS voted against! — which workers with children under 12 years of age, for example, were exempted from shiftwork? Or the hourly banks? Or night work? Or other forms of deregulation of your schedules? How many times did that fall by the CDS? Oh, my God! They tell us that the solution is to create open daycare facilities 24 hours a day, moreover, created by the companies themselves, preventing parents and mothers from being with their children in the same way, it is certainly not our solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u110	It's not putting them in the freezer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u111	And, of course, let's talk about living conditions, talk about housing. It is from the CDS — and from the PSD, of course, but specifically from a former management of the CDS — the lease law! What is happening in the housing, with the absence of conditions of people to have access to the housing, also has the brand of the CDS and the right. In fact, housing is that area of the social state that has not been fully developed. We need much more public housing. Not only do we need to regulate the market, but we need to flood the market with affordable housing, public housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u113	This, yes, is to contribute to birth policies or to the realization of parenthood projects. And the CDS is talking about family water and light charges? Oh, my God! So we created a social energy tariff, we defended a social water tariff... For example, in the Port, in whose House the CDS is, we made the municipal assembly approve the social water tariff, which would benefit tens of thousands of families, but the House — of which the CDS is part, I repeat — did not want to apply it. And now the CDS comes to speak of a family rate, discriminating families, when what we need is social rates, so that everyone has access to water, light and also, of course, housing. It doesn't make sense, but it's consistent with CDS vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u115	Finally, there are differences in child care policies, with access, for example, to daycare. Therefore, we have insisted that another view is needed on this matter, so that there is a public network of day care for children, which is accessible, as has been done with school education. That is to say, there is a free and universal access to a public network of day care centers, spread in the territory, which allows families to have access to this response and does not place them dependent on a monopoly of the private social sector. Of course there were advances. There have been some advances in making foster care more accessible to families of lower income, but the offer of day care is far from the demand and we need this public network of day care, a debate which we will also bring to Parliament very soon. These are the policies that, from our point of view, may make the difference, but these are not the answers that the CDS project brings. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u116	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the CDS for bringing the draft resolution to debate for an integrated policy of birth and family valuation. We consider it relevant, and we cannot fail to point out that this project meets the PSD resolution project with an integrated policy for children and the family. It is public that the developed countries have a birth problem and that everyone tries to solve it, one with more success, one with less. Portugal is a developed country that has a growing birth problem and is not able to solve it. Portugal has a persistent tendency towards population decline and triple population ageing, i.e., very low fertility, reduction in the number of women of childbearing age and increasing longevity. More than 22 % of the population in 2018 was over 65 years old, the third highest value of the European Union, and the birth rate — currently 1, 3, has since been below the minimum replacement value of the population, which is 2, 1. From 1, 3 to 2, 1 will be a long distance, very difficult to reduce. Every year we have older people, because people grow old and, fortunately, longevity increases. And we have fewer and fewer children, because parents add the decision to extend the family and sometimes even fail to make that decision, which is increasingly important for the country. Families want and wish to have more children, but do not feel secure, do not feel confident, do not feel supported enough to fulfill this desire. This reality compromises our future, because it does not allow the renewal of generations; it compromises the Nation, because it progressively restricts the number of Portuguese people of active age; it weakens the economy and threatens social balance. So we will all have to face this problem forward and take up its solution as a real design for Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, birth does not increase by decree and the decision to have children is the personal forum. It is up to the State to create public policies capable of creating conditions that favour this decision, so that families feel protected to take on such great responsibility. Political decision-makers must have the courage to face these challenges and must do so in a structured way, avoiding harsh measures. It is crucial to link measures that support parenthood and early childhood, promote reconciliation between work, family and personal life and ensure positive discrimination in the fiscal area and in reform. Among the developed countries, those with higher birth rates are those who invest most in support of the family, parenthood, reconciliation between professional and family life, child care and child education. And it is also these countries that transmit security and trust to parents, allowing them to realize the desire to have the second child and sometimes more. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only possible to create these conditions with long-term public policies that mobilize different areas, namely: at work and in businesses, but the government shows once again in the State budget for 2022 that this is not its way; in social security, whose reform and sustainability needs to ensure, but the government repeatedly and stubbornly refuses to make any reform; in finance, with a huge public debt that leaves us on the brink of the abyss; in education; in health, where the government also fails, it is only to follow the news of this area. Sector by sector, we could continue to list the error of the public policies of the socialist government. It is therefore essential that the birth policy have an extended political-party consensus that goes far beyond one or two legislatures. It is necessary to create a space for a broad and conscientious debate, to which the social partners are called — contrary to what the Communist Party says —, the institutions of the social economy, the technicians and specialists and all the citizens concerned. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot have companies that are considered familiarly responsible, with awards and certifications and that then make collective redundancies without any consideration by families. It is not making advertisements of awards on convenient occasions that demonstrate social responsibility, it is in the most difficult situations that being socially responsible makes the difference. It is up to all of us in this House, and now in the discussion of the State budget, to take decisive steps towards an integrated and coherent policy for birth and families. I would also like to recall that a working group was set up in the Committee on Labour and Social Security to discuss matters of birth and parenthood. the Government has the responsibility to address the problem of birth as a matter of prominent national interest and to take the necessary steps to resolve it. Portugal must face the problem of future births, with realism, and start solving it, as other European countries are doing. From this government we expect much more than has been done so far. Families are waiting for urgent answers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u118	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, of the Socialist Party, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make a previous point, which is that, obviously, this is a matter that does not only concern the parties represented in this House cross-borderly, but also concerns our society and occupies space in the debate of it. This is a preliminary point on which I think we all agree. But in the concrete analysis of the CDS proposal there is, above all, a fundamental problem in two dimensions. The first relates to the currentity of this CDS proposal in the data it uses and, related to it, the second dimension has to do with the proposals for policy measures that it presents in assessing its ability to be effective in order to support families to realize the desire to have children who want and not only those who would like to have. On the data used by the CDS in this proposal there is, in fact, a current problem, because this proposal is equal to another that the CDS presented in 2018 and, since then, there has been a whole world that has evolved, in our country and even internationally. But let's go to parties and continue with the data. I am sorry to inform you, Mr Pedro Morais Soares, that, as much as you would like, it was not the CDS who had the merit of putting this issue on the political agenda. In fact, before the CDS drew up the Christmas Challenge Report in 2007, which is an interesting exercise from the point of view of the activity of a political party, this issue was already discussed a lot. Of course, because there were more developed countries than ours that had the low birth rate problem that we faced from a few years ago to this part. There is therefore a problem in this historical contextualization that the CDS makes, but there is also a problem in the statistical accuracy of the data it uses. The CDS didn't want to look at the reality of numbers, or because it's not favorable to it, or just because it didn't want to. Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, according to the data used in 2009 there was a decrease in the number of births — below 100 000 — but this decrease was recovered in 2011. The problem has worsened substantially, and it has indeed been a tragic milestone in the evolution of the number of births in Portugal when we descend below 80 000 children born each year. And that happened, Mr. Deputy, in the years 2013 and 2014. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was at that time, Mr. Deputy, between 2011 and 2014, that we had a decline in the number of unprecedented births in Portugal in our history, far above the descent that occurred in the previous 20 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u120	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u121	The honourable Member will say, but why is the honourable Member here in this debate? Oh, my God! Mr President, I am discussing this because it is the correctness of the data that comes from our ability to present proposals that are equally valid and effective. You will also ask: the number we have today, in particular the synthetic fertility index, is it okay? Isn't it low?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u122	It's okay for the PS! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u123	I will say: Yes, it is still low, but clearly it is not what it was in 2005 and it is not, at all, what it was in 2014. Therefore, Mr President, the truth of the figures matters, in particular for the proposals, so let us go to them. Mr Deputies, the project says it intends to present an integrated policy on birth and family valuation and my question is the following: what do we generally know about academic knowledge or knowledge by comparing reality between different countries? Firstly, we know that policies are fundamental—yes, it is true! — but they are not unique, and if they are used alone, in particular without the size of emigration and immigration, they alone are not sufficient. On emigration, the CDS, in its proposal, says zero and the most valuable immigration that it also says zero, because what the CDS does is to affirm an appreciation of Portuguese-born children born in Portugal, of immigrants who have chosen to live in Portugal, who have their lives here and that our population receives because they also need them. In conclusion, this appreciation is unacceptable and, in essence, honourable Member, between the proposals that he has put forward and the proposals that he has already put forward and which are not effective, the CDS cannot, at all, present a policy to support birth, at least an integrated policy to support birth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u124	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u125	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is only one: we have had the worst historical results of birth, and we continue to have them in the governance of the socialist government. Since the last year, we had fewer births than in 2015, and this is a data concerning a period when we were already under a socialist government. This is the truth that we have to face and these are the numbers, Mrs.Sony Fertuzinhos: we had fewer births last year than in 2015 and we had more deaths. This is the reality! Of course, we can say that the problem is housing, wages, that the problem is all that. Only in front of us at the birth rate are countries such as Mali, Uganda, Afghanistan and Sierra Leone and, as I know, are not countries known for having fantastic social housing rates, or for having access to extraordinary water and housing. So there's a problem. Behind us, Mrs Deputy, are Sweden, Switzerland and countries such as Finland, where there is even minimum housing and incomes of existence. We can turn around, but there is a structural problem not only in Portugal, but also in the European Union, which is called demographic replacement. And don't try to tell us that we are being racist or xenophobic, that we have the children of immigrants or migrants. The truth is only one: the European Union as a whole has been replaced demographically by children of immigrants. And that is not good or bad, it is a problem that Europe has to face, because no one will want Europe to be composed mostly of people coming from other continents within 20 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u126	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u127	I will finish, Mr. President. Nobody wants the European Union to be made up of individuals coming from any other continent within 30 or 40 years. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Not knowing this is called political hypocrisy. It is political hypocrisy not to recognize that there is a problem in Portugal and in the European Union...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u128	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u129	I'm done, Mr. President. The data, Mrs. Member, since you want them, I am sending them by email, so you can confirm them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u130	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Pedro Morais Soares : We have heard the presentation here and we have also had the opportunity to read the initiative presented by the CDS. And we start by putting something that seems obvious to us: many couples have no children, or have no children, not because they do not want to, but actually because they cannot, because their living conditions do not allow them nor take the option of having children, nor take the option of having more children. This is inseparable from a set of structural problems that our country faces, for which the CDS also has responsibilities, in particular from the time it was in government, with the law of evictions, which denied the right to housing to thousands of families in our country. This is also a problem that competes for the issues of birth and that influences decisions, particularly for younger couples, to have children, or to have more children, because they do not have housing for their families. That is also a very important problem. But as far as the issue of incentives to birth is concerned, or a path that promotes conditions for families to have the children they wish, this same path is inseparable from central issues of the labour area and also the social area. Of course, in the general valuation of wages, because the minimum wage we have today, which makes a significant part of the workers bring less than 600 € net home, is not at all an incentive to birth. For this reason, the PCP presented a proposal to increase the national minimum wage to €850, also an important element as an incentive for birth, and the CDS, PS, PS, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative voted against the same proposal. For this reason, we also see the commitment they have to support and encourage birth. It is also inseparable from the path of promoting birth the fight against precariousness, the guarantee of stable employment for couples, for families, so that they can schedule and implement life projects, or the end of irregular working hours. Mr President, there is no need for flexible working hours, that is not the answer that is necessary. What is needed is to put an end to the deregulation of working hours, what is needed is to combat the abuse of night work and shift work, and to reduce working hours. The way is not to put children 10, 12 or 14 hours on a daystand, so that parents can be exploited for 10, 12 or 14 hours and so that the employer can accumulate and put more money in his pocket at the expense of exploiting workers. That is not, however, the way forward, as the CDS also proposes on its own initiative. Mr President, it is also important, in promoting birth, to ensure, for example, the universality of family allowance as a right of the child who is. On this basis, the CDS does not say anything either. The CDS proposes a social rate for gas and electricity. More than a social or family rate, what is required is the regulation of these prices, what is really required is to lower the costs that exist in our country with gas and electricity, as the CFP proposed, which was also rejected in the Assembly of the Republic. So if you really wanted to solve this problem and if you wanted to have a policy to encourage and promote birth, you would naturally have other political options, which are not the ones that bring to the vote here. The path that you are defending is not a way to promote birth, but rather a way to promote exploitation of workers and families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u132	You have the floor at the end of this debate, Mr Pedro Morais Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u133	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the contributions that have been made. The debate, in fact, was very lively. I would like to note here — the data are factual — that Portugal has less than 200 000 people than it had in 2011. And in the first semester of this year, birth has reached...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u134	Are you talking about people or about births? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u135	I'm talking about people and now I'm talking about birth: in the first half of this year, birth has reached the lowest value of the last 30 years. Only 37,000 babies have been born since... [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Did you mention these data?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u136	So don't go there!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u137	I'm not going there? Oh, my God! Only 37,000 babies were born in the first half. They are the lowest numbers and the trend, unfortunately, is falling year after year. In fact, there is a genuine package of extended measures that gives families more conditions. There must also be a true fiscal policy for families. With regard to day care centres, seeking measures in the State budget of the Socialist Party for 2022, there are very few measures to support families in relation to birth incentives. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] There is a measure, which concerns the freeness of foster care for the children of families belonging to the 1. o is 2. the steps of social security. But I remember, Mr President, that there are many areas in the country, especially in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, where there are no breaks in the day care centres for families to place their children in, where the day care network does not exist or does not work, there are few vacancies, where there is no contractualization with private persons, as should be, the sector that has vacancies and is available for agreements to exist. Families also find no solution in childhood gardens because they do not exist. The Ministry of Education cannot place children aged 3 or 4 in the public education network. 5 years old can, but unfortunately, 3 years old and 4 years old can't. And it is not only in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, Mrs Deputy. Finally, Mr President, there are indeed no conditions for having a true family-friendly policy to enable them to have more children.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u138	We will enter the sixth and last item on our agenda, which consists of the debate of the Draft Resolution No 1451 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government develop and implement an integrated national strategy to combat loneliness as a strategic public health axis. To present this initiative, I have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It might seem that talking about loneliness would be talking about a matter of other forums, other than that of the Assembly of the Republic, a subject to be addressed, perhaps, in the areas of psychology, sociology or the academy. But no. The phenomenon of loneliness, lived as a lack of contact, feeling of belonging, or even being isolated, is today a serious social problem, which the pandemic, as we well know, has not only aggravated, as evidenced, and which leads to health, safety and inclusion problems. Several studies refer, in fact, to the difference between the need to be alone and the feeling of loneliness. Given the psychological, social and economic impacts of loneliness, this is a problem that has worried the governments of many countries, and studies that have related solidarity with depression, with mortality rates comparable to those caused by alcohol and tobacco consumption and also with the risk of premature death are already considered, even as a public health problem as harmful to health as smoking 15 cigarettes per day. solitude is also understood as a higher risk factor for health than obesity itself. The impacts of loneliness are not left here. They are also associated with higher levels of dementia, the risk of Alzheimer's disease, involving not only high costs for individual health and for the financial and daily management of families, but also for the sustainability of any health system. According to data from 2019, 18 % of the European population felt socially isolated and 7 % felt truly lonely. If we think that 7% corresponds to 30 million Europeans, we can thus understand the size of this problem. In the case of Portugal, the Directorate-General for Health tells us that 20, 4 % of women and 7, 3 % of men over 50 years of age suffer from loneliness. This portrait of social isolation tends to increase with age, but loneliness, contrary to what one may think, is not just a problem of the older population. On the contrary, evidence shows that there are peaks of loneliness in other age groups, particularly in adolescence, a phenomenon exacerbated by the presence of social networks or even video games. And with the pandemic we had so many young people confined at a time when their lives were deprived of a social experience that they will never be able to repeat again. In fact, loneliness cannot be a disturbing factor in healthy psychological development in young people, especially at a time when many leave the family to pursue studies or find jobs, when they often lose their reference groups. The scenarios of loneliness are also verified with people with disabilities and their caregivers. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have all discussed widely the problems of informal caregivers, people who feel truly alone and without any support network, whether social, labor or even friendship, who will lose their lives, after years and years to care exclusively for someone. Solidarity is particularly worrying, therefore, in people at risk of poverty, that they are disconnected as a result of social inequalities, such as the case of homeless people, and the lack of opportunities that intensify this phenomenon and the consequences of loneliness. It is therefore a cross-sectional problem at all ages, regions and genders, and in which we can give so many examples of people in our country who feel effectively alone, we cannot fail to consider the example of other countries. In the United States and the United Kingdom, for example, loneliness is already indicated as an epidemic, whether by the number of people affected, or by the impact on their lives. Also in 2017, within the framework of the Annual Convention of the American Association of Psychology, he was alerted to loneliness as a imminent danger to public health. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the NAP brings today this initiative, that recognizes that this is a public health problem, with the aim of preventing and better treating the causes of loneliness and reducing the turnover of people to resort to health services, placing on their quality of life, and that it is important to ensure the existence of a national strategy to combat loneliness, transversal to various ministries, and also convening the academy, civil society and, of course, the different specialists in which must be a common desire. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u140	We will enter into the debate on this NAP proposal. For an intervention, Mrs Joana Lima has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PAN Parliamentary Group brings us today a draft resolution full of good intentions and that we follow, supported by various studies, both national and international, on the subject under discussion, which is the implementation of a national strategy to combat solidarity as a strategic public health axis. This debate does not start today, it has already started back there, so it is never too much to remember that this issue has always been on the political agenda of the socialist governments, with cross-cutting policies at various ministries. But also this very important debate must be done not only at national level but also at local and decentralized level, because this intervention has done a very successful job in combating loneliness, but also in promoting policies for active and healthy ageing. And here I stress the decisive role that the authorities have in this process. It is also important to highlight, because no less important, volunteering, associations, IPSS, social committees of parish, among others, that, with their proximity to reality, strengthen national and local policies. We should also highlight security forces such as the PSP ( Public Security Police ), the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the municipal police, which develop projects, alone or often in partnership, and which contribute a great deal to the implementation of measures to support this more fragile population. Finally, there is a wide range of entities in the field that promote the fight against solidarity with proximity policies, specific to each territorial reality, both age and socio-economic. Portugal has given answers that help greatly in the quality of life of citizens who may be suffering from loneliness. In the younger ones, for example, the pandemic also had reflections on mental health, especially students, according to a study referred to in the exhibition of reasons for the initiative, so we need to pay attention to this phenomenon. In fact, mental health by this government has been and is a very strong wager ever seen in other governments. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to remember that Portugal, in 2018, welcomed the United Nations Conference on Active Ageing and that was not by chance. Portugal is an example, and has given evidence, with its social, economic and health policies that meet the needs of people, especially those who are older and live in less recommended conditions. These issues are undoubtedly a priority for the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to point out that, not being loneliness, a problem exclusively for the elderly population or more isolated areas of the country, as it is common to think, there must be a multidimensional approach. Although there have been answers, and I stress here once again the determining role of the authorities, there is still not a single answer to respond to the phenomenon of loneliness. It is therefore necessary to know the impact of solidarity on various dimensions, by placing it on the Community networks and by collecting information on Portuguese reality, through studies that scientifically support the political measures that are being adopted in the fight against loneliness and, above all, on isolation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u142	Mr Rui Cristina, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is estimated that the number of suicides per year in the world amounts to about 800 000, which amounts to one suicide every 40 seconds. In Portugal 3 people are killed per day, which means that among us more than 1,000 people end up in their lives every year. Why is it relevant to talk about suicide when it comes to loneliness? For the simple reason that, as it well warns a recent scientific document of the Order of Psychologists, suicide and attempted suicide result and are signs of great emotional suffering and represent a challenge of public health throughout the world with impact on people, their families, their community and their society. If the reasons that lead one to attempt suicide can be many and complex, the said document of the Order of Psychologists reminds us that among the main causes that motivate people to end their lives are psychological health problems, including depression, bipolar disorder or excessive alcohol consumption, telling the feeling of loneliness among the risk factors that increase the likelihood of someone considering suicide. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that, recently, a scientific study concluded that, in our country, one in four elderly people feels alone and has depressive symptoms. We are talking about about half a million elderly people, an impressive number, but that will sin, certainly by default, if we add to it the misery and suffering that the pandemic of COVID-19 brought to Portuguese society in the last year and a half. In fact, in this period, how many millions of Portuguese have not lost their businesses and jobs? How many were not forced into inhumane confinements? How many have not been deprived of the company of their friends and affection or even of the comfort of their relatives? All this reality, however serious and complex, finds in solitude a psychological dimension that is difficult to measure, but which also assumes, perhaps, its most tragic expression there. It is therefore a hidden reality that is almost silent and that little or nothing has been fought in recent years. Experts have warned of the urgent need to deal early with problems of loneliness and social isolation, especially in older people, as well as to promote effective support programs for their families. The Social Democratic Party therefore welcomes and recognises the concerns that were at the basis of the presentation of the draft resolution that we now appreciate. We understand that the Government must necessarily develop and implement an integrated national strategy to combat loneliness, as a strategic public health axis, and we understand this because we believe that the problem of loneliness, both in its clinical dimension and in its social expression, lacks recognition, study and combat. We recognize in solidarity a serious public health problem and we advocate that the Government should take urgent measures that effectively promote the health and quality of life of Portuguese and that, consecutively, they effectively combat the so-called loneliness epidemic, an evil that affects, increasingly, large segments of our population. For all this, the PSD will vote in favour of this draft NAP resolution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u144	Mr Miguel Arrobas, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution brought here by the NAP is, for us, CDS, extremely important, but, in our view, it has been little spoken and is often spoken with many taboos. An approach to combating loneliness must be duly studied so that it does not become a real public health problem. Being sure that many people who suffer from loneliness or social isolation are elderly, this is a problem that affects any age group and there are many young people who suffer from it. Regardless of age, one thing is certain: the approach must be strategic and concrete responses. We consider the recommendations of the NAP to be correct, but it is important that we do not stay here, under the penalty of being once again in the void and in the paper. There are many parallel measures that have to be taken, many, including, have been of the local initiative, of the authorities. The CDS has already proposed several initiatives, in different areas highlighted as those most affected by social loneliness or isolation. In particular, we have already recommended that the Government consider dementia and Alzheimer's disease a social and public health priority and that a national plan for intervention for dementia be drawn up. With regard to the status of the informal caregiver, we have insisted that the government definitely ensure the rest of the caregiver, as well as the time for him to develop personal relationships and participate in the most diverse social, cultural, recreational, sports and spiritual activities. We also recommend that the scope and competence of the current National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth be extended to the elderly and their respective committees for the protection of the context of the conflict, with the involvement of local social action councils. We defend that, under aggravating circumstances, criminal conduct against particularly vulnerable persons due to age, disability or disease that limit their faculties or persons subject to follow-up measures for crimes that most victimize the older population is expected. We recommend school social action for all needy students, the fight against dropout in higher education and free access to the broadband network for school use. In short, we have been presenting a number of initiatives over the years, which, if approved and put into practice, could have greatly contributed to the fight against loneliness and social isolation in various age groups. in this sense, the CDS remains committed to this matter and, as such, will not impermissible, and will accompany, this initiative of the NAP for recognizing its good intentions. However, we repeated: without more concrete measures, this NAP project is at risk of giving anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u146	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Solidarity, which we are discussing today, is a cross-cutting problem to society as a whole, affecting children, young people, adults and, with particular impact, the elderly. It is a problem that often does not have visibility, but all studies point to it, which has serious implications in each person's life and, in particular, in mental health. The pandemic has highlighted the many weaknesses of our society, of course, as regards how we deal and how we treat our elderly people who, because of their advanced age and because they receive very low reforms, often being below the poverty threshold, are more vulnerable, particularly to the disease, and have therefore been advised to stay at home, or even to ban their exit from their homes, thus stressing their isolation. However, we would like to point out that the serious situation in which some elderly people and other layers of the population are found was only aggravated by the pandemic, since it already existed. In the context of the operation of GNR Senior Censuses 42 000 elderly were identified who live alone and / or isolated, the vast majority in the districts of the country. With the closure of day centers and associations, this population, a large part with autonomy and willingness to continue living in their homes, was deprived of living, therapy, physiotherapy and follow-up closer to chronic diseases and even a more balanced diet. Thousands of elderly people are caregivers of others with disease situations and other adversity, living in a particularly dramatic situation during the winter with the low temperatures and very weak living conditions, without heating or economic conditions to pay the high energy costs. That is why The Greens brought to the discussion in May a draft resolution that recommended that support measures be strengthened for elderly people living alone or isolated and public health support services. We also recommended strengthening mental health professionals in health centres and creating mechanisms for the authorities to ensure support for the elderly population, whether in access to food, medicines or others. It is essential to respect the rights of those who have worked their entire lives and have given themselves to the construction of a better society, particularly by valuing their pensions. We also defend the objective of responding to all those who suffer from loneliness and sink into isolation. We speak of thousands of elderly people who are self-sufficient, who have their own organized lives in their homes, close to children, friends, neighbors and who want to continue, while they are able, with this autonomy and for that they need this support. With the pandemic, the rights of the elderly were limited in an unacceptable way. It is necessary to respect your wishes and it is necessary to combat the loneliness that assaults them. It is necessary to address the problem of loneliness, with an approach that involves the various sectors of society. For the Greens, solitude is a deep problem of society that affects, we do not ignore it, children, young people, adults and, above all, the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u148	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Solidarity is a serious problem that has an impact on health, whether psychological or physical. That's what we agree with. It seems to us that, in order to debate this problem, its consequences and to be consistent in this discussion too, we should go deeper in identifying and understanding the causes that lead to the various solids. Of course, COVID-19 had impacts. No one would doubt that confinement, replacement of personal contact by a video conference, or even what happened from north to south of the country in the homes, hospitals, preventing visits, follow-up, etc. , no one ignores, I repeat, that this has had impacts, as it is obvious, that it has aggravated problems. It is true that COVID-19 may have created vulnerabilities where they did not exist, but essentially deepened vulnerabilities that already existed. Therefore, when we say that COVID-19 may have aggravated situations of loneliness in institutionalized people, the truth is that there was already a problem, which came from behind, in institutionalization and loneliness that comes hand in hand with this same institutionalization. in the same way, we cannot ignore that, effectively, public responses are lacking to prevent more vulnerable people, more or less elderly, from being alone and from preventing this institutionalization that is often equivalent to a life of loneliness. Nor can we ignore that many situations, such as unemployment and loss of income, lead to loneliness. In fact, in this case it is not necessary to do many studies on the subject anymore, because the first studies of the 30th century on the psychosocial effects of unemployment had already pointed to this. Unemployment and loss of income entail a loss of activity, a loss of social ties, which inevitably leads to loneliness. The same would be said of the organization of work that is increasingly precarious, in which the worker is atomized, there is no social relationship, there are no social ties, the totalizing work, because, if working, it has how to survive, but, if not to work, it has no kind of income. It is obvious that this leads to loss of social life and loneliness. We would talk about many other things besides these, but these causes are already important enough to deepen this issue. In other words, loneliness is, as we said, a problem, obviously has health consequences, but it does not exist in the abstract and it is necessary to go to its concrete causes. It seems to us that that is what is missing in this project, in this initiative presented by the Parliamentary Group of the NAP. There is a lack of implementation of these proposals. We have nothing against the constitution, the elaboration and implementation of a national plan to combat loneliness, but, finally, this plan has to have a direction, it has to say where to intervene and what direction. Having nothing against the development of this plan, as I said, nor against the investment that proposes to be made in combating loneliness, it is important to identify areas. for our part, for example, areas such as long-term unemployment and loss of income are fundamental; areas such as precariousness and the way in which work is organized today are fundamental; areas such as lack of public responses to avoid institutionalization are fundamental. Finally, the fact that the Government of the Socialist Party has entered the Budget for the third consecutive year, the start of pilot projects to support informal caregivers is a fundamental area, because we all know that an informal caregiver or caregiver are exposed to exceptional vulnerability. Indeed, the act of entering rules in the Budget which, after that, are not being fulfilled, is not doing anything in the fight against loneliness, it is, in fact, making the situation of these people worse. We will, of course, follow this proposal, but we hope that it will bring realisation, so that we can tackle a problem that is identified, but whose causes are not being tackled at the moment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u150	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u151	I congratulate you, Mr President, and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about solidarity. Today it is proposed that the Government develop and implement a national strategy to combat loneliness. Let's talk, of course, about loneliness. This is in fact a negative feeling and which is often associated with social isolation. It may be present at any stage of the human life cycle. It may arise by the person not having the presence of other people or not being in social contact, but the person may be in the midst of many people and be alone, just as a person may be alone and not have feelings of loneliness. There are causes and risks. The problem of loneliness is when it becomes the only company and, in this case, it must be identified. With regard to this draft resolution, we believe that the NAP ends up doing what we have already lived in: it will seek social, economic and cultural realities, it imports them into our country - it presents to us data from Japan, the United States, Belgium, the United Kingdom and few of Portugal - and tries to adapt them to our reality. As you do not know the Portuguese reality, you try to do with the reality of other countries, often out of ours, your project. in this sense, it is important to understand what the NAP wants, that is, the NAP wants the government to give you to know what the NAP does not know about the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u152	As you have nothing to say, invent!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u153	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we have to say that the causes and risks of loneliness are perfectly identified. On the one hand, the pandemic came to bring, of course, increased and aggravated what were causes and risks to loneliness, which contributed to loneliness. It is important to know which answers are being given to existing problems prior to the pandemic. But the NAP does not solve the structural problems related to the elevation of the population's quality of life standards, nor did it manage to structure its project in this sense! What solves the problems related to loneliness are the responses in the context of raising the quality of life of the population. [[Protests by PAN Member Nelson Silva.]] It has, of course, spoken of desertification and solidarity imposed by the fact that desertification in our country is increasingly being a dimension to which it is important to respond, creating combat measures. He spoke of children, in their right to play, in their right to live with their parents, in their right to be with their family. Madam Member, how important is it that measures be taken to combat the impediments of these rights? Do you know how much loneliness is exposed to a father or mother who leaves home with her son sleeping and comes back to sleep with him? Do you know how much loneliness is exposed to a worker who is taxed unregulated hours, who cannot have conditions, economics, wages to live socially and to be with his children?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u154	We know, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u155	But this is not poured into the NAP project! They forgot about informal caregivers. How is it possible not to consider informal caregivers who, with their dedication to those who need to be cared for, cannot articulate their activity as informal caregivers with their work activity, with their social relations and even with the right to have time for themselves? This is also loneliness! There is also a lack of reference to the response of the National Health Service. How important is the National Health Service’s ability to respond to mental health? Solidarity is not only mental health problems, but also physical health problems that reflect the lack of answers. Mr President, in conclusion, we need action to be taken and the way to raise the quality of life of the Portuguese people is sought. That is why, of course, we will fight loneliness, but this is why the NAP does not respond to this project. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u156	You now have the floor, for the second intervention of your Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elza Pais, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this is a very up-to-date project that everyone and everyone are concerned about, but it is not a project that deals with a new topic either. They propose to combat loneliness, as a strategic public health axis, we will also add as a strategic mental health axis. This is a multidimensional phenomenon, as they have well pointed out, mainly affects the elderly, but also affects the younger, the immigrant population, the refugees, etc. Therefore, it is a problem that needs to be fought in a complex and integrated way. Concomitantly, it is a phenomenon of the rural world, but also of the big cities and is associated with the rarity of social and family ties and the absence of intergenerational solidarity. We know that the pandemic has aggravated this phenomenon. The NAP generally does a good analysis, but then it does not propose any solution. This is precisely where we want to say something. We want to ask the NAP if we know the articulated projects of public policies with local policies, such as the Radar Project, of the City Council of Lisbon, such as local development contracts such as the Humanitarian Villages, such as the Elderly Project in Security of MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration ), such as the projects of home support networks. Mr President, in conclusion, I wanted to say that this challenge is not new, it is a challenge of the present and the PS is trying to fight it and face it in the framework of the National Plan for Mental Health, within which we think it should be treated. We are here today, we have always been, to face this challenge and not leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u158	Let us, then, move on to the closure of this point. I believe that there is no intervention by the parliamentary groups that still have time, so I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u159	Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that I am somehow surprised that some of the parties who unanimously approved the Lisbon Municipal Assembly a recommendation and a motion presented by the NAP municipal group in January 2019 are now criticising the proposal for a strategy of solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u161	The NAP does not presume to replace the Academy, non-governmental organizations and what should be the involvement of civil society in solving this serious problem, which is the epidemic of loneliness. To this end, we must convene these actors to identify the various problems and present the various solutions. In fact, I am very surprised, for now, by this sectarian, labor vision, both by Mr. Bloc de Left, and by the Member of the CFP. This is a multidimensional problem, i.e. they ended up in the mistake that they accuse us precisely. Mr João Dias, from the PCP, I am sorry but he lives in a parallel reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u162	Do I live? Did I go get Japan?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u163	Come to say and give moral lessons to the NAP, when, effectively, there is no arrogance here from the ideological point of view... The CFP will have the opportunity to adopt precisely two legislative initiatives of the NAP to protect children, in particular the right to have a companion in schools, precisely for their adaptation, or in the context of reception, for example. Mr President, you will have this opportunity and you will certainly not miss it! When I come to ask whether or not we know a mother who leaves home with her child to sleep and who, when he arrives, he is already asleep, Mr. Deputies, I tell him the following: my mother was a worker-student and I know this reality very well! [[PAN's applause.]] The NAP lives in this real country, contrary to the honourable Members. Members who often come here and, if necessary, are here to legislate between four walls. With regard to the PS, I cannot but tell the honourable Members that the NAP has indeed submitted a motion for a year and a half for the PS to present solutions. Even in Budgets of the previous state, we tried to extend the Radar Project to the whole country and did not follow us. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we did not stop presenting solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u164	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u165	Mr. President, I am really concluding. The NAP does not stop presenting solutions! More: none of the Mrs. Members brought this issue to the Assembly of the Republic! Therefore, the solutions exist and it is enough for us not only to follow this draft resolution, but also for many other initiatives which repeatedly reject us in this House of the Republic. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u166	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing the sixth point on our agenda. Before we proceed to the reading of the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, Mrs Sofia Araújo, Secretary of the Bureau, will please read the initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u167	Mr. President, I inform the House that they have entered the office of the President of the Assembly of the Republic and have been admitted, Bills Nos. 993 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 994 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission ; and draft resolution No 1472 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. Mr. President, that's all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-14.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Sofia Araújo. Tomorrow the Plenary will meet, as is normal on Fridays, at 10 a.m., and has six points on the agenda. of the first point is the general discussion of the Bill No 112 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — establishes a seal tax exemption for the restructuring or refinancing operations of the debt in a moratorium. The following point deals with the assessment of Parliamentary Survey No 8 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the operation of the Ministry of Internal Administration and the forces under its protection in the case of a road accident involving the official car of Minister Eduardo Cabrito, mortally hit a worker on motorway A6. The third point includes discussion of the draft resolution No 639 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Regulation of leisure pools integrated into tourist enterprises and local and domestic accommodation. The following point, the fourth one, provides for the general discussion of Bills Nos. 858 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Amends the limitation period for sexual crimes against minors, 961 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH) — aggravated criminal frameworks deprived of liberty for conduct that configure crimes of sexual abuse of children, sexual abuse of dependent minors and sexual acts with adolescents, 962 / XIV / 3. a ( CH ) — Amends the Penal Code in Article 164. the (infringement) exacerbating the criminal frameworks applicable to subjects who meet the requirements of this criminal conduct, considering crimes against freedom and sexual self-determination as crimes of a public nature, and 968 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Extends the time limits for the prescription of crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors and the crime of female genital mutilation by amending the Criminal Code. The fifth point is, without discussion time, the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2022. We shall finish our work with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. All of you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your cooperation in this session and wish to continue on a good day. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 35 minutes.]]
