ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] the first point of this plenary meeting is the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 16 to 30 January 2021. First, however, if we come into this first point, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has several information to lend you. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted by the President, several legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to the Bills No. 678 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 679 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, 680 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 681 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 682 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 683 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, 684 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 685 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, 686 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, 687 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, 688 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 5. the Commission, 689 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 690 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. a and as 9. a Commissions, 692 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 693 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 694 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 695 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 696 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 698 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 699 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 700 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 701 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission. I then refer to Law Nos 72 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 73 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 74 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which fall to 6. the Commission. Resolution Nos 973 / XIV / 2 have also been added to the Bureau. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 974 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 975 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 10. the Commission, 976 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 977 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 978 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), lowering to 8. the Commission, 979 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 981 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 982 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 983 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 984 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 985 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 986 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 987 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) e 988 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which are down to 1. the Commission, 989 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 990 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 991 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 992 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 993 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 994 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 995 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 996 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 997 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 998 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 12. the Commission, 999 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, in connection with 7. the Commission, 1000 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 1001 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 1002 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 1003 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1004 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1005 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1006 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1007 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1008 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 109 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1010 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 2. a and as 4. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that we already have more than the quorum necessary for us to proceed with any vote, with 159 Members registered for this purpose at the moment. We will therefore enter the first item on our agenda with the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 16 to 30 January 2021. You have the floor, for an intervention, by the Government, the Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrito, who greets you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the exercise of democratic transparency and the constitutionally expected election, this is 16. the report which, since our lives changed, in March last year, the Government presents to the Assembly of the Republic, in this case on a period of emergency, corresponding to the second half of January, particularly difficult. It was in this period that we recorded the highest incidence rates of the disease CVID-19. It was during this period, particularly in the second week, that we had about 12,000 cases a day, as an average. It was during this period that the peak number of active cases, 181,000, was reached the peak of admissions, with 6694 interns at the end of this period, and that the number of deaths dramatically had the growth we all knew. But it was in this period that the essential measures were taken that allow us to arrive at the different way of looking, with hope and sense of community, the challenges we are facing today. It was during this period that, with the support of the President of the Republic and the Assembly of the Republic, the Government took measures to close economic activities and to limit movement at the end of the week ; that, from 22 January, it determined the closure of all educational establishments ; that it carried out an extension, a significant reinforcement of the response of the National Health Service ( SNS ), multiplying several times the COVID response capacity of many units, using the support of private sector and social sector structures. It was during this period that the rear support networks and structures reached their maximum response capacity, with 2400 beds of internment. But it was also during this period that it was possible to maintain an effective response framework in the implementation, with respect to fundamental rights, of the state of emergency regime and that the vaccine reached the homes of the elderly, starting in this fortnight, a framework leading to the vaccination of more than 200 000 users and professionals of residential structures for the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was finally during this period that we reached 274 municipalities in the continent at maximum or extremely high risk, which was possible, with an immense mobilization of means and with a very high civic sense,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u5	I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u6	... the conduct, under very special conditions, of the presidential elections, on 24 January, ensuring that, in pandemic, the country is united around the objectives of response to the health crisis. In the pandemic, we look at the weakest. In the pandemic, democracy is not suspended. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u7	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is 16. the state of emergency report and it can be said that it is the report in which the government left the closet. It came out of the closet, because for the first time, it took on what we all knew. It says the report that the population did not internalize the gravity of the situation. It's the Portuguese's fault! When endless ranks of people died in the United States, it was President Donald Trump's fault. When people die in Brazil every day, it is the fault of President Bolsonaro. But in Portugal there is a particular feature: it is not even the blame of the Minister Eduardo Cabrita, nor of the Prime Minister, that is the Portuguese people. And so it is in Spain. There seems to be a single virus in the world that affects and does not affect, at the same time, the virus of the Socialist Party. It says the report that the population has not been able to internalize the gravity of the situation. And it's good for the Portuguese to know who accused them of having done it. But it is also the report that lacks the truth, because, Minister, you did not mention lines in hospitals once. And we all remember, on the 15th and 28th of January, endless rows of ambulances at the hospital door, with the Atonite Country, looking at them. Not a mention, in your report, of the truth! Where is the truth when we don't say there were endless rows of ambulances at the hospital door? Oh, my God! But also, and it costs me to say it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u9	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. I want to talk about morgues, Minister! He referred to the case of the Algarve and was unable to mention that the Hospital de Santa Maria placed cold containers because there was no room for the corpses. It is a report that lacks the truth, that fails the truth, that fails the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u11	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This report covers the last fortnight of January, when the incidence of the epidemic has known the most serious numbers since its inception. in this period, The Greens want to highlight three outstanding facts. The first is the holding of elections for the President of the Republic, in which it was demonstrated that it was possible to carry out it by ensuring all safety and health protection measures. It was possible for the Portuguese to exercise their right to vote and to choose the President of the Republic. It is therefore necessary to value all those — members of the table, delegates and workers, particularly the authorities — who have ensured such a complex process. But it is also necessary to greet the voters who, with their participation, have denied the catastrophe theses conveyed by messengers of misfortune. We'd all like to see how the voter flu was bigger. However, in the circumstances in which these elections took place and in the face of the constant promotion of fear that, for weeks, we saw, even with disturbing expressions, popular participation gave a remarkable lesson of civicism. The second is the Government's decision to close schools without providing an alternative for more than 1 million children and young people to attend compulsory education. What leads us to the question we've always asked: what's the emergency state for? If it did not help to ensure that the closure of schools coincided with measures to continue learning, if it did not help to acquire the missing computers in time, if it did not help to reduce the number of students per class, then what would it serve? And finally, drastic measures have had consequences on the simplest aspects of people's lives. Here, even at the door of the Assembly of the Republic, civil construction workers — a sector that has never been confined — stand lunch, by the walls, while the garden banks, right next to it, are banned. There must be good sense, the common sense that was lacking when it was banned, for example, the sale of a simple bottle of water in establishments, which are even open for sale in takeaway. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the debate on the state of emergency report is for something, it is to confirm the criticisms and doubts we have expressed in previous times.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u13	You have the floor for the NAP, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u14	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: During the reporting period, Portugal had an average of 12,000 new cases of daily infection, which led the country to the top of the unwanted numbers, to the country with the largest number of new cases per 100,000 inhabitants and to the largest number of deaths per million inhabitants. From January 2020 to January 30, 2021, we have recorded 721 thousand confirmed cases of infection. of these more than 26 % between 15 and 30 January of this year. The highest rate of positivity was seen, almost 20 %, since the beginning of this crisis, and an increase in hospitalization cases, 220 in intensive care and almost 4000 deaths — mainly in the population over the age of 70 —, which exposes the country's enormous fragility in the protection of the older population. We've crossed all the red lines and we can't repeat it. That's for sure that we all have, or we should. We don't know what we know today, it's a fact, and uncertainty management is always difficult. We did not have the union of the scientific community, which we have today, and this is central to political decision-making. The road today is clearer and also, therefore, more demanding and responsible. It calls us to a different maturity and balance from the first confinement. We have no doubt that the virus will express itself again when we return to our routines. He did not get any weaker, on the contrary, we need to become stronger and more determined. We all want schools to open up, but in the right time, with a plan of safe and clear defination for society as a whole. Schools have done an excellent job and it is good to recognize the role of all educational agents. But the truth is that only the numbers could be reversed and advanced to current indicators when all school equipment was closed, then a great government resistance. The price has been and is too high. Therefore, we proposed the strategic review of curricula and school programs to ensure that students' learning had the least possible damage. The Socialist Party voted against. The rush is an enemy of perfection and it will be our worst enemy, following the virus. After the sacrifice of all and of all, an effective leadership is required, a leadership that listens, that defines the best plan, and that has the firmness of keeping in front of pressures. A leadership who knows that a false step can take everything to lose. A plan is required to ensure the protection of the elderly, a strict health surveillance, which makes the entry of the virus impenetrable in all contexts where these people are, until vaccination reaches each of them; a plan that responds to the recurrent needs of the Centre region. Data say that it is in females that higher rates of new infections are found in all age groups, with a higher impact on women under 50 years of age. It is necessary to understand if they correspond to women who are not in telework, if they are the ones who use most public transport, if they are because they are more exposed to the virus, in order to prevent and combat this reality. We know that the new variants have been detected, mostly, in people aged 40 to 49 and in age groups below these. Since these variants are more transmissible, the plan must present clear and concrete measures for these age groups. However, a plan is also needed for transport, a plan for phased and gradual opening of schools by educational levels, integrating educational agents into priority vaccination groups. A plan defining measures based on the risk of territories, more than the risk of municipalities, with resources for tight monitoring and immediate response capacity in case detection and containment. We know what the red lines are, there is no longer any excuse for speeding up defining, before they are fully assured and controlled these lines. It would be very irresponsible to give in to pressure before that happens. It would further compromise the learning, the economy and the future that we all want to save. It's not enough to believe everything's gonna be okay. It's gonna have to make it all go well.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u15	Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a synthetic way, I would like to point out that this report corresponds to the period from 16 to 30 January. And it is worth considering, for that reason, chronologically, I would say, what happened immediately before and what happened during this period. And what happened immediately before, beginning, for example, on January 8th, was that Mr Prime Minister heard the parties — all parties — and he did not decide anything. On January 8th, he didn't decide anything! And you were asked — the Minister will remember — if it would not make sense to close schools; it was asked whether there would be no problem with the British strain, whose news was obvious and evident already at that time, and to that was answered virtually nothing. The government waited, and waited until day 12, on the day it met with Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority, I.P. ) In Infarmed, some of the specialists, Prof. Carmo Gomes, for example, were peripheries in the idea of closing schools. And the government, nothing! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] On January 19, Mr. Prime Minister was here. It was confronted by several parliamentary groups about whether it should not close schools, about whether it would not be too late to close schools. We all remember the answer: nor to think, the schools had nothing to do with the matter, there was no reason to close the schools on January 19th. The government ended up closing them on January 22. And on that same day, sending the children to the holiday home, the Minister of Education wanted to ban the teaching, including those who were in a position to do at the same time,... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] But it is also curious that, immediately after the start of distance education, the first statement by the competent Minister of Education was: « We must start thinking about opening up ». It's absolutely extraordinary! What happened here? After what had happened at Christmas and then, I repeat, of January 8, of January 12, of January 19, only to 22 the government decides what is obvious. And what happened at the end of January? Portugal is just the worst country in the world in number of contagios, in situations of hospitalization, in number of deaths. These things don't just happen because they happen. There is an obvious relationship between the absence of a decision, between the confusion and what has just happened in our country: the pressure situations and even the rupture we saw in the Amateur-Sintra — fortunately, the situation was no more serious — and the ambulances we actually saw standing at the door of our great hospitals. But the speech is everyone's fault. It is also curious to see the Minister of the Presidency say to the country yesterday or earlier: 'We have done everything to stop closing schools'. He came to explain that it was a social issue and, on that, he has her opinion, it does not matter, but he said he did everything not to close the schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u17	Then we did!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u18	Madam Member, the question is: what did this cost us in contagions, in patients and even in deaths? What did that decision cost us? That's the point! Because they didn't say they didn't know...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u19	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u20	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. They do not say they did not know, because the reports on the British strain are of mid-December, the international alert is of 20 December. From December 20, most countries began to close because of this...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u21	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u22	We are late and therefore there is a consequence and there are responsibilities. We need to know what happened, until we know what needs to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u23	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report under discussion concerns the worst moment we have had since the beginning of this epidemic, which started almost a year ago. We have reached the maximum of infections and hospitalizations. And for this reason, at this time, that was of enormous demand to the National Health Service, this requirement that continues to be put, we want to leave here, once again, a word of appreciation, recognition, appreciation, by the health professionals, who were inexhaustible in their commitment, in their dedication, not only at this time, but who have always been here, throughout all the professional performance in the National Health Service. The moment, of course, also requires the recognition of its rights, the enhancement of its careers, the guarantee of stability, the guarantee of better remuneration. But it is also time to reaffirm our requirement that the National Health Service should be strengthened and that a set of measures were adopted in the State Budget for 2021. This need for strengthening the SNS is not a conjuncural need, it is a structural need and therefore we should take advantage of everyone who has increased their capacity to maintain it, because the requirements that will be put in the National Health Service will be enormous in the future. It is necessary to continue to accompany all patients with other diseases, to recover delays. Thus, this way of strengthening, with more means, with more professionals, with more equipment in the National Health Service, is the right one and it is the way to proceed. The report also concerns the time when we found that the pharmaceutical industry failed to comply with the number of vaccines that had been agreed with our country. The fact is that this failure to comply also called into question the implementation of the vaccination plan itself, as it had initially been defined, introducing delays and not, in fact, implementing it as planned. Vaccination is essential and is recognized by all as a fundamental element in combating the epidemic. We therefore consider it essential in this process, too, that the Government once and for all take its sovereign decision and seek to diversify the purchase of vaccines, not to be bound by the European Union agreements, using vaccines which, being recognised, are being developed all over the world and allow for further vaccination. We have stated that testing, tracking, vaccination is, in fact, essential for combating the epidemic. This period was also marked by another element: closing schools. We do not oppose, but we mention and reiterate today, here, that it is essential to create the conditions for its reopening, safely, ensuring the protection of the health of all, but above all, allowing not to harm children and young people. It has been proven that distance teaching is not the solution and introduces a set of inequalities. As the PCP has defended, the fight against the epidemic is due to the strengthening of testing, screening and vaccination. The country needs to strengthen individual protection, to do the protection pedagogy, to strengthen the SNS, implementing all measures approved in the State budget. at the same time, it is necessary to dynamize economic activity, ensuring all the safety conditions of workers, cultural and sports activity...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u25	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u26	I will now finish, Mr President. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure the social protection of all, including families who are at home with children.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u27	Before I give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira, I must inform you that there are already 198 Mrs and Mrss. Members registered for the purpose of voting, and there is therefore more than enough quorum. You have the floor, then, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, knowing as much as you know about the virus and the pandemic, it would be expected that one year after the start of this epidemic in the country, the government would not fall into the temptation to hold the population accountable for the pandemic and its evolution. But that's not what's happening. In fact, as early as February, Minister Siza Vieira pointed out to the Portuguese for the third wave, which came to take place in January. And now, it's this state of emergency report that repeats the accusation about the behaviour of the population. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the fact is that the population is making enormous sacrifices to contain and combat the pandemic. There are those who have lost their jobs during these months; there are those who have seen their wages brutally reduced; there are those who are in telework at the same time who accompany children in the study, at school; there are those who have been for one year, every day, giving everything they have, in the National Health Service, to protect us; there are sectors of closed door activity, without knowing if, one day, they will be able to reopen them. And does the government intend to blame who is making these sacrifices? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, the population, with enormous sacrifices, is reducing the incidence of COVID-19 in our country, the population is acting the way it should behave and the government is, as has happened so many times, failing the country. I'll give you a few examples. When the government refused to make the civil request, to strengthen the response to the COVID, it failed the country! When he refused to distribute personal protective masks for free, he failed the country! When he refused to prevent layoffs, he failed the country! When he left EUR 7 billion to be executed and in 2020 he made the lowest budget implementation in recent years, he obviously failed the country! When he does not raise his voice against pharmacists who do not comply with the contracts and do not defend the lifting of patents, in order to have a public production of good that must be public, which is the vaccine against COVID-19, he is failing the country! And when the number of tests is low, and should be increasing much, it is obvious that the government is failing the country! It is not worth making the victims of the crisis responsible for it, Minister of Internal Administration. The Government needs to assume its responsibility and to change its course: public vaccines, to have more vaccination; intensification of vaccination and screening; use of all public resources, including budgets that are not being used, to support the victims of the crisis. It was good to concentrate on doing this instead of looking for scapegoats. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u29	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic circumstances in which we live today are the result of the government's already irrefutable and systematic incompetence in the management of the pandemic. A month ago, it was imposed on us a general and abrupt confinement, the last reduction of pandemic control measures, an instrument that should only be used when everything else fails.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u31	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u32	One year after the outbreak of the pandemic, we continue to see a government in constant reaction to events, a government that is unable to predict and prevent itself. Otherwise, let us see: only one month after we are considered the worst in the world in number of infected people is that the government has come to announce mass testing. Once again, too many words and very little action! It is true that the number of infected is coming down significantly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u33	Podera! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u34	But what would these numbers be if we were actually testing more? Oh, my God! Worse: in addition to failing to comply with this mass test with which he has committed himself, this is the European Union government which has less tested in January this year. And to further exacerbate this picture, we have found that excess mortality in Portugal is not due only to COVID-19. Over the past year, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, we have seen thousands of surgeries and consultations be postponed, chronic patients have become deprived of their treatment and, of course, their health has worsened. We must have the notion that the restrictions on access to health, which this government has failed to prevent, do not affect only the present. There are so many other patients, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, that will be the case in the future, because simply screenings have been delayed and thousands of diagnoses have been postponed, especially in the area of cancer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u36	As far as the budget is concerned, what we find is the failure by the Government to implement the expenditure which was authorized by this Parliament for this purpose and which was supported by the PSD for nothing lacking in combating the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u38	This despite the enormous needs of the National Health Service, families and businesses. Once again, the best in the world to announce, the worst to execute! They therefore knew how to save money, but they did not know or could not protect the lives of those who succumbed to the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, be aware that the lack of investment in health, budget underexecution and enormous lack of planning results from a government that systematically runs behind the damage. With you ruling the country and managing this pandemic, the virus has always been a step ahead of you and, of course, they have failed to fulfil the goal of leaving no one behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u39	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when we are present in this parliamentary debate, we should all correspond to the call for it, i.e. to discuss the measures proposed by the Government for the state of emergency, in particular those which corresponded, as a response, to the most difficult period the country has lived since the beginning of the pandemic. January was not a month to play, it was a very serious month for those who had to make decisions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u41	And he didn't take them!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u42	... for those who had to suffer from the decisions that were made, because they were real, necessary and serious, but it was, above all, a dramatic month for populations who faced an increasing number of infections, with an increasing number of hospitalized patients, with an increasing number of patients in intensive care and, unfortunately, with an increasing number of deaths. In view of the scenario, it was necessary to take the measures that had been taken. Our call today is to try to figure out whether or not these measures have resulted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u44	And the answer is given by today's numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u45	That's what's missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u46	The measures taken by the Government have resulted, and have resulted peacefully in front of all those who admit them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are surprised that in the face of such an unknown crisis and reality, there is so much certainty about so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u47	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u48	Mrs. Sofia Matos, Mrs. Deputy is a person full of certainty and comes to this House propagating them. There is only one problem, Mrs Sofia Matos: it is that her certainties are also controversial on her own, because the honourable Member is able to defend one thing and its opposite. Before Christmas, he defended defination, to free the people for a period of their own families, and today he should come to prison for what he defended before Christmas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at a time when we should all be called upon to, consensually, find the best solutions to defend the country and the populations, what the opposition parties are trying to find is to find gaps, because there will always be gaps in an answer that is not absolute, that never has absolute certainty, to make a political attack. This may favor the PSD, may favor the CDS, but does not respond to the needs of the country. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, our commitment was to strengthen the National Health Service, and we strengthened it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u50	In conclusion, our commitment was to provide the National Health Service with more personnel, and we did so. Today, there are nearly 10 000 health professionals more than a year ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u51	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u52	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, who missed the country was the one who also had this commitment and did not make the State budget available for this year, it was the one who had this commitment and missed that call,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u53	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u54	... it was the one who had this commitment and failed to democracy, missed the parliamentary left, missed Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u55	To close this debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: After so many debates on the same subject, I believe that we do not understand everyone, completely, to serve the state of emergency. It is used to compress rights, freedoms and guarantees, in the face of a situation of public calamity, a situation generated by a disease, a situation of an international public health emergency. There's no guilty, there's a disease. There are no "we" and the Portuguese, we are all Portuguese, we are all citizens, we are all people. It was in this context that we used the current state of emergency to restrict rights, freedoms and guarantees. The rights, freedoms and guarantees that we consider very important, from the outset, freedom of movement, freedom of movement, but also freedom to go to school. And it was with great regret that we proceed to the closure of schools, the presence of educational activities. We did it,
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u57	It's too late!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u58	... because, at a certain time in January, we realized that a new variant of a virus already known made traditional measures not enough to respond to the transmission of infection. in this fortnight, the epidemiological situation of the country, first, got worse. Portugal was in fact the first country of the European Union with the highest cumulative incidence of cases, had a transmissibility index ( Rt) above 1, had a positivity rate of almost 20 %, had an estimate of 36, 5 % prevalence of the English variant in total cases confirmed in Portugal. But this trend has been reversed and this is worth stressing. The peak incidence was reached on 24 January, the number of cases recovered increased in this period by more than 30 %. The day of January 22 was the day with more tests performed and the month of January was the month with more tests performed since the beginning of the pandemic. Portugal is the sixth country of the European Union in number of tests carried out by millions of people and there are people who must be reading the wrong numbers, so it is worth confirming what they are talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are better today than we were, in fact, but we are not yet in the place where we wanted to be. The lowest number of new cases that the country has registered so far was on August 2, in which 106 new cases were recorded. on that day, there were zero deaths. On August 22, there were 270 interns and, on August 9, there were 29 interns in intensive care units. The day on which the positivity rate was lower was August 5, with 1, 2 % positive cases in the tests performed. There is therefore a lot of way to go and this is where we will not miss the Portuguese, but not with easy solutions, because they do not exist. It is not to break patents that guarantees the productive capacity of vaccines, it is not to say that we did not plan to solve what was missing. What is missing is done with work, study, dedication and, above all, with true arguments. That is why these debates serve to expose them and also to take into account the strategy we have followed and the strategy that we will continue to pursue, with adequate and proportionate epidemiologically effective and socially syntonic measures at every moment of the evolution of the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u59	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate on the report on the implementation of the State of emergency declaration from 16 to 30 January 2021. We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which is that of the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. Mr. President of the Republic addressed a message to the Assembly of the Republic for the purposes of this authorisation, which contains the basis and content of the draft decree of the President of the Republic. I would just like to remind you of some aspects that are highlighted in the message from the President of the Republic, which I read: « Whereas the situation of public calamity caused by the COVID-19 pandemic continues to be maintained. Whereas the measures taken in the context of the state of emergency are having the desired positive health effects, with broad compliance with the restrictions in force, which resulted in a significant reduction of new cases, as well as the rate of transmission, although the average incidence continues to be quite high, as well as the number of admissions and deaths. Whereas it is not recommended by experts to immediately reduce or suspend contact restriction measures, without the numbers falling below more manageable levels by the SNS, that testing rates and surveillance of new variants be increased, that vaccination may cover a significant part of the population most vulnerable to the COVID-19, contributing to a growing group immunity. Considering that the future defination should be planned by phases, based on expert recommendations and objective data, such as the risk matrix, with more tests and more tracking, to be successful. Whereas it is therefore necessary to renew the state of emergency once again to enable the Government to continue to take the most appropriate measures to combat this phase of the pandemic, while also adopting the necessary measures to support families, workers and most affected companies, including direct support for families, jobs and businesses, including financial, tax and contractual moratoriums, deep-disbursed support, Layoff, corporate capitalisation measures and preparing the future gradual defination. Do not keep on seeking. ” The President of the Republic therefore proposes that the declaration of the state of emergency be renewed, on the basis of the verification of a state of public calamity. To open the debate, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It is at difficult times that we seek foundations that help us to trust in a better future and there are several current challenges — the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, the weakening of employment and the backwardness of multiple advances in territorial cohesion, equal rights and opportunities and in our overall quality of life. All of these are challenges that have clearly weakened our democracies and require increased attention from those who defend them. To this foundation we give the name of knowledge. Why? Because we all want to trust that decisions, our decisions and those of others, are based on the most robust knowledge existing and not on mere opinions which, as we know, proliferate. However, we often forget that knowledge takes time. Research and innovation feed each other, but they are a long and extensive process. The same can be said of confidence and democracy itself: it takes time to build and, therefore, will always be unfinished work, which requires an ongoing bet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u62	When the challenges are complex and require answers from various domains simultaneously, the work becomes gigantic. This is clearly the case with the challenges we face: they require dialogue and commitments that are not easy to achieve and also take time in the democracies we want to consolidate. This time is often remembered by decision makers, not only politicians. The first or the « me first», of recent bad memory on the other side of the Atlantic, and so visible and recurring around us, not only does it not help as it weakens and destroys this essential work of building consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Knowledge has as its origin the doubt and as its objective the clarification. of the answers that accumulate, there are invariably more questions and doubts. If we're lucky, the uncertainty will be overcome. COVID-19 is an excellent example of this process. No one should be surprised that certain decisions have to be reviewed regularly. It's always an unfinished job! It is also in times of crisis that we realize that the greatest enemy of democracy and knowledge is not uncertainty, it is the lie. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because the lie is always assertive and categorical, it never has doubts; because it is based on ignorance, it is easy, it is simplistic and explores the fragility of the other;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u64	...because it usually hides powerful economic, political and ideological interests and is therefore widely funded even internationally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is because certainties are easier to transmit on social networks and the media occupy less space and require less explanation. What 94% of Americans see, hear or read is in the hands of six large companies with a very particular view of what we call'research journalism'. Journalists who question the negationists are threatened, including death, even in Portugal, because often repeating the same lie works and because insecurity and fear are easy to sell. Perhaps the most serious of all these aspects is that the lie promotes autocracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have several examples of this fear, which are the so-called « conspiracy theories». These are several and tell us that vaccines are dangerous, forgetting the magnificent story of Jonas Salk and the eradication of polio and so many other diseases, or the fact that in less than a year, we have several vaccines against COVID-19, but ironically, still none against HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus). [[P.S.'s applause.]] They tell us that climate change is invented, forgetting that for 60 years forecasts have been realized; they tell us that the transgenics and now the products of cellular agriculture are 'food-frankenstein';...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u65	What a sadness!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u66	...or that the elections have been stolen!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u67	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Therefore, promoting knowledge and literature, in all fields of knowledge, will always be the most effective way to fight insecurity, fear and lie. [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u69	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr André Coelho Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament is meeting to discuss another statement of the state of emergency. The document here convoking us is a presidential decree which authorizes measures which presuppose the abolition of rights, freedoms and guarantees—it is not a philosophical document itself—but the measures which inform it, yes, very practical and which follow it up, are, of course, the responsibility of the Government. The PSD, voting favourably in all presidential decrees, has always stood aside from what the country considers to be what it needs, presenting the serious stance required of a responsible opposition, expressing the cooperative stance required of a credible alternative, and more so in a year in which Portugal is the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. More than for history, this way of acting is due to our political consciousness of having to be met and political consistency of aid to the country, at a time of exception. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, moments of exception require policies and, above all, exceptional policies, they also reveal to us. Is it true that it is not easy to deal with the uncertainty of a pandemic scenario — we recognize it from the beginning — but there was a need for the Prime Minister to assume, before the country, what he called a "very clear objective", i.e. to start next school year ensuring universal access to equipment at a distance to all elementary and secondary school students, and the government has commissioned computers only on the last day of 2020? This is when we're at the end of the 2nd. the period with only 9 % of distributed computers! Is that what you're talking about? Was there a need to ensure universal access to the network to all students by April 2020 when the social internet rate was only available in June 2021, after the end of the school year? Was it necessary for the Prime Minister to come to television to insist convincingly on the non-inclusion of schools, in order to have to go back only four days, with all that that shows impreparation and disorientation? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not subjective considerations, they are objective assessments! And this has nothing to do with Christmas, neither with the new strains, nor with any exogenous circumstances, has to do with the performance of the government only, has to do with the promises that the government makes to the Portuguese without checking their enforceability, wounding their credibility before them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u72	Yes, sometimes lies kill democracy and here is a good example of that. This is clearly not the position that was required at a moment of exception as we live. the PSD is to remain firm in the attitude it has been able to present, from the beginning. Although we have to hear here, cyclically, what a risky record, that the PSD does not contribute with a single idea, in an exhibition of the proverbial ingratitude of the Socialist Party, we will maintain our cooperative, constructive stance, working on diplomas, proposing others, demanding the closure of schools—when the Government resists in doing so— by advancing with the proposed conditioning of the passage of the year which was not planned, suggesting the daily dissemination of vaccination numbers, which was not expected. At present, the PSD, not only requiring the Government to submit a plan for defining to the country, did not, above all, fear to present its own concrete and intelligible proposal, as it did yesterday through its President, Dr. Rui Rio. This is a safe plan, that is, indexed to the indicators suggested by the technicians, which crosses the numbers considered safe in terms of new infections, hospitalizations in intensive care units and the so-called "R(t)", crossing them with vaccination and testing numbers. It is a plan which, therefore, does not require or calendar any defination, only creates an algorithm indexing the defination to the achievement of values that are considered safe by scientists. It seems obvious to us and quite easy to understand! There is also a need for a plan to do this by regions, like what is already done in several countries in Europe, applying the region algorithm and allowing to start defining in the regions of the country that reach satisfactory rates, without having to wait until the whole country is in a position to do, which in some regions, such as the most touristic, can have very relevant effects. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not called inequality, but, yes, equity. The PSD proposal does not indicate, therefore, that defination should occur within a month or within a year, but only when the indicators justify it. The PSD does not go into indecency, it does not require any defination, but requires the government to do its job and to be able to indicate a path to the Portuguese, since that is its function. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u73	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The number of new cases of COVID-19 has declined dramatically. In the period of one month, we spent a daily average of about 13 000 new cases daily to around 1500. For this it was essential to reduce mobility and social contacts generally achieved in the country. However, as the number of cases was reduced, the number of tests performed also fell. Although several times promised, the change of test criteria still takes time to reach the ground, and we are testing much less than the experts have recommended. Instead of using confinement to massify the tests, the government has lost essential time. The country has fulfilled, but the government is failing. The reduction of new cases allows to recover the breath in performing epidemiological screenings and in detecting transmission chains. However, contact tracking still takes longer than the 24 hours advised by the Directorate-General for Health and we are far from regaining control of transmission chains. The pandemic slowed down, but the virus is still loose, without the government taking advantage of the confinement to recover land. The country has fulfilled, but the government is failing. With the number of new cases falling, pressure on hospitals is quickly reduced. of the nearly 6000 hospitalized in nurses, at the beginning of the month, are now occupied about 2000 beds. In intensive care units, after reaching the record number of 904 hospitalized patients, we are almost falling into the barrier of 500 hospitalized people. They are still high numbers, it is true, but everything indicates that, in mid-March, if you are below the target of 200 people in intensive care units. With the relief of pressure on hospitals, we still do not know any plans to recover the scheduled activity that was postponed. In order to respect the enormous effort of health professionals, it is necessary to prepare and organize, rather than run permanently behind the damage. However, about the near future, the government continues to sail ahead. The country has completed, but the government continues to fail. The schools were closed and the children were confined. The problems of non-present education, which we already knew, are enhanced by the lack of government preparation, the lack of computers for students and teachers, the lack of decent and accessible telecommunications and the lack of strategy. Always running after damage! The public school, its professionals, children and families all said 'present' at this difficult time. Only the Government and the Minister of Education have disappeared, unable to point ways and find solutions. Without a plan to reopen schools, the government has also not given priority to the vaccination of teachers and non-teachers, nor has it presented the way to mass testing of school communities. The country has fulfilled, but the government is failing. With numerous sectors of the economy closed or with reduced activity, the number of people in unemployment increases. The government has asked for millions of sacrifices, but it is failing to support people and the existing economic capacity. Support is parked and always delayed, leaving out people and companies who should be protected. The credit moratoriums, fundamental in this difficult period, have ended with a marked date, but no solution giving way to families or businesses. Always attached to the portfolio, Mr Finance Minister leaves people and businesses in hand, missing them at this difficult time. The country has fulfilled, but the government is failing. In today's vote, the Left Block will opt for abstention, because we know the need for the state of emergency, but we do not know that the government could do much better. Now that you see the light at the bottom of the confinement tunnel, the government is still late. We are familiar with the defining plans of other countries — the phase-up of measures or risk grids — but on the Portuguese side, there is no strategy, there is no plan. Vaccinate and test in force; recover the programmed activity that was suspended in the National Health Service; phased opening of schools, beginning with younger students, testing the school community and vaccinating teachers and non-teachers; support, without bureaucracy or delays, those who lost incomes; recover lost jobs; combat the growth of inequalities and poverty; help the economic recovery with public investment, these are the priorities that the Country claims. The country has fulfilled and demands that the government also comply. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u75	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It would be an unacceptable mistake to deny the harsh reality that has been struck on the lives of millions of Portuguese and to try only to appreciate the positive development of the health situation in terms of reducing the number of infections, hospitalizations or deaths. It is necessary to combat the epidemic, but it is also necessary to curb poverty, hunger, despair and the economic and social imbalance that are increasingly threatening our future. If the national problems are not fully considered and if no solutions are adopted that respond effectively and fairly not only to the health problem, but also to the economic and social problems we are going through, Portugal will not be able to get out of the situation created by the epidemic without facing even greater difficulties than those that already exist. Considering the problems throughout its extension means facing the deeply negative impacts of confinement on children, families, mental and physical health of Portuguese people, and means considering the accumulation of economic and social costs of confinement, particularly with the spread of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion. Therefore, we insist that confinement must be an exception, it cannot be a solution. More than prolonging confinement, it is necessary to put in place the measures that immediately pass through the epidemic and, in the long run, allow it to be kept under control, avoiding its spread and new confinements. It is essential to combat the epidemic, to ensure support for those affected by the consequences of confinement and to prepare for the resumption of activities that are closed, including schools, cultural and sporting activities, restoration and trade. In the health plan, three are the main priorities to be considered. The first priority is to strengthen public health teams, so that the increase in screening and testing is done with criteria and not indiscriminately and in order to ensure the ability to identify and interrupt transmission chains. This is so necessary today to stop the epidemic in the situation in which we still find ourselves, as in the future, in order to avoid new situations of uncontrolled Community infections and transmission. The second priority is to ensure that the vaccination objectives are met in order to achieve the levels of group immunity necessary for the recovery of normality in national life. In view of the lack of vaccines, we insist that Portugal must free itself from the European Union's 'force vest'with the contracts signed with pharmaceuticals. It is necessary to diversify the purchase of vaccines, ensuring the necessary safety and efficacy conditions, and to cancel or suspend pharmaceutical patents so that it is possible to increase production. The third priority is to strengthen the SNS and value health professionals, because the epidemic is not exceeded, because it is necessary to recover delays in the provision of health care that remained behind and because it cannot be counted on private hospitals, who deny even treatment to those who fall in their facilities if they have no money to pay. It is absolutely essential that the SNS be strengthened and its professionals valued. Along with the health response, it is necessary to ensure the social support to whom they need, to stop unemployment and to avoid failures. It is necessary to implement what is in the State budget for 2021 in terms of support for families, the unemployed, the elderly, and to ensure access of MPMEs (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises) to support, without bureaucratic restrictions, created artificially and illegally to alleviate budgetary implementation. If the State Budget says that the MPMEs should be supported, even if they were created by 2020, the MPMEs cannot be banned from these supports and must even be supported. Finally, it is necessary to plan and define, in each area and sector, the conditions necessary to open, as soon as possible, the activities closed. Whether schools, public transport, cultural or sports activities, restoration or trade, it is necessary to take steps to ensure that their reopening does not take place and that it is done in conditions of calm and security for everyone. In this context too, the Government must not want to save on the support and investment it needs to make in order to ensure the conditions for the general resumption of activities. We draw attention to the special need for investment in public school so that schools can recover the losses imposed on children and young people who, between 2020 and 2021, have already lost the time corresponding to a period of schooling. These losses, not only in educational terms, but also in social terms and even in terms of physical and mental health, have to be recovered, requiring the strengthening of teachers, assistants and specialized technicians, the strengthening of means to work with children and young people with special educational needs, the reduction of the number of students per class and other measures that are currently identified in many schools throughout the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the national situation is still difficult, but Portugal still has the resources to overcome these difficulties. There is a desire to implement the alternative policy necessary to achieve this objective. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u77	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The state of emergency renewal debates in recent months have tended to become at all, less in the size of the tragedy, very repetitive. Numbers vary, but uncertainty remains. The gentlemen. Government members point out the most positive data, such as that Portugal is the country with the lowest rate of transmission of the virus in Europe, but also do not devalue the fact that numbers are worrying at the level of admissions to the National Health Service. The opposition, where the CDS is, does not forget the priority that should be given to transparency in vaccination, home protection and attention to new variants of the virus, without ignoring that the extraordinary measures that led to this confinement are giving rise to its effect. The Portuguese understood the seriousness of the situation, the government took the seriousness of the situation and the country responded to that gravity with a huge sense of duty and responsibility. This is not the first intervention I make in this House about the state of emergency, it is an intervention in which I would like to talk more about what is happening than what has happened in the past, or what should have happened. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is excused to continue to ignore the dramatic consequences that this pandemic will have on the social and business fabric of our country. It is excused to judge that the so-called 'European bazauca' will have the breath or the strength to re-enter a country which was already bent. It would be irresponsible not to take it and not to look at the future as a difficult challenge, but a necessary challenge, as an unexpected opportunity, but possible. I believe, therefore, that Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to look forward to what's coming here, but not to have any kind of illusion. The social market economy, which has defined the European construction—between workers, Christian democrats, social democrats—will fight for its survival in the next half decade. In the CDS, as members of this family, we will not be absent from this fight. Social consultation, the European social state, the protection of the most vulnerable families and small entrepreneurs are the ones who will need us most until the end of this legislature, with or without states of emergency. And the young people, who had absolutely legitimate expectations, with dreams to realize, look to the future of the country and see their promised future and these completely threatened dreams. One thing is right: states can pass, but the emergency will stay with us. It will be urgent to protect the middle class from tax suffocation. I repeat, it will be urgent to protect the middle class from tax suffocation, preventing it from being strangled among those who do not pay taxes because they do not want and those who do not pay taxes because they cannot. It will be urgent to rethink the market economy, protect the industries that guarantee our European sovereignty and ensure that the free initiative remains free of both the excess of the state and the large external monopolies. It will be urgent to attract investment to revive this economy, but not any investment, an investment that respects European rules and always takes account of the national interests of Portuguese workers and entrepreneurs. It is equally urgent, ladies and gentlemen. Members, pay attention to the sustainability of the financial sector, insofar as it will be essential to revive the engine of the economy and guarantee Portuguese companies conditions for its financing and return to its activity. Attention — I have said this — to bank moratoriums. Attention to the sustainability of the banks themselves, which in the long term may have a problem and thus bring problems to the financing of our economy. Make it clear that when planning is requested, we are not only rushing or asking for defining, but asking to organize the defining process. They're different things, each in his own time. I conclude by saying a word of appreciation to our newly elected Head of State, who has been irreprehensible in cooperation with this Assembly of the Republic. The Head of State pointed out priorities: more tests, more screenings, more planning for defining and a very special concern for men and women who were forced to live on the streets. The priorities for the future, I believe, have made them very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u79	For an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The most recent data on the evolution of the epidemiological situation in our country show us that the general confinement imposed by the state of emergency was the right option and that the sacrifices imposed on the Portuguese are worth it. People have mobilized to stop stepping on the three red lines that we can no longer overcome if we want no further restrictions after a future defination. It was possible to place the positivity rate at around 6 %, that the number of cases is not greater than 2000 per day, that R(t) does not exceed 1, 1, currently at 0, 67, the lowest value since the beginning of the health crisis. These three values are a good indicator. They have allowed us to save at least 3000 lives, but they do not allow defining for now. We must not forget that in recent weeks the National Health Service has been at the limit, with an excessive number of interns and bedrooms in intensive care. We must not be levian and we must be aware that the context we are living today is not the context of the defination of May last year. at this moment, the new British strain, with all the uncertainty and risk of transmissibility that is associated with it, already represents half of the infections in our country—this in a scenario where Brazilian and South African strains are also gaining space. at this moment, it is not time to lower restrictions, it is time to continue saving lives, to prepare rigorous and gradual plans for defining, to continue to meet the objectives of the vaccination plan and to give a robust response to the social and economic crisis. For the NAP it is urgent for the Government to draw up the discussion of the defination of the schools and the bubble economy of the Council of Ministers and to start discussing it with the political forces represented here. For the NAP it is necessary that, contrary to what happened in the first wave and at the beginning of the second wave, the conditions for regular and massive testing of school communities are fully ensured and with conditions clearly known to all. It is necessary to define a gradual and sectoral decoupling and to weigh whether or not it makes a decoupling by regions or a rotating system of teaching presence and distance according to cycles or years. It is urgent that school programmes adapt to the exceptional context of the health crisis, as we have already proposed, and the Socialist Party has fallen. There are many issues to debate and little openness to do so by the Government, the Minister of Education and the Socialist Party. We are still in time for this debate, if the Government and the Socialist Party want, to see the mistakes of the past committed. But if it is true today that confinement is synonymous with difficulties in the economy, insolvency, loss of income, unemployment and increased ranks for food support, it is no less true that rapid and destructed definition could mean an extension and greater hardness of the social crisis. In any case, there is no doubt today that, on account of the responsibility of the Government, the social and economic crisis is greater than it could be at this time. The seriousness of the present situation requires the Government to act with the same force in support of the economy it is acting with when imposing the restrictions. We cannot impose restrictions on people and do not give them the necessary support to make them survive. It is urgent for the Government not to waste time and to regulate the advances provided for in the State budget, such as the status of cultural professionals or the programme proposed by the NAP to support small and medium-sized publishers and independent bookstores. It is urgent that the Government spends, without wasting time, the funds provided in the State budget for exceptional expenditure and that, without saving, it adopts the measures that the country needs and puts money into the economy, accelerating the reduction of late payments by the public sector, ensuring that all individual entrepreneurs can access the support programmes APOIAR + SIMPLES and APOIAR RENDAS, ensuring that the end-of-activity allowance is above the poverty threshold or prolonging the deadlines for the depreciation of moratoriums. It is urgent that the workers in the culture sector cease to turn their faces and implement the NAP proposal adopted by this Parliament last week to ensure that extraordinary support for cultural professionals covers all workers in the areas of shows and events which are without support due to their CAE codes ( classification of economic activity) or CIRS ( Code of Tax on the Income of Single Persons ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the NAP will vote in favour of this renewal of the state of emergency, recalling that current issues of epidemiological evolution do not allow another alternative, but also reminding the Government that it has to play its role. It must begin to plan for defining not only within the Council of Ministers but also with the other political parties. And for the sake of a country with a future, it has to put people's lives above public debt concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we resumed in the debate on the renewal of the state of emergency declaration the question with which we ended the previous intervention: what is the state of emergency for? The Greens have expressed their disagreement in this House with the banalization of the use of the state of emergency. In three and a half months of emergency we went through a worrying but controlled epidemiological situation to the worst situation of all time and then evolved into a situation that is frankly encouraging. Ask yourself: wasn’t the state of emergency always the same? It was. The concrete measures that have been taken and the pedagogy that has been done is that they were different at every moment. But neither for one or the other the state of emergency was indispensable. We are at a time, as you mentioned earlier, able to give encouragement and hope to the Portuguese. But this hope cannot be based only on the vague idea that we are now better and that it may be that this happens, and it cannot be as ephemeral as the sun rays of this winter end. It needs to be based on concrete measures so that it does not go back again. It is therefore important to reflect on what needs to be done. First, since we will not tire of repeating until exhaustion, it is urgent to value the National Health Service, which, despite the evidence to which it was subjected, and even with many shortcomings, was able to ensure the answer that is required. This says a lot about the choices we've been making over the past few decades, resisting those who wanted to, and still want, give this "crown jewel" to the interests of the private business. The option to invest and give full centrality to the SNS was the one that, at this time of seizure, saved many lives. But it also states the responsibility that is placed on the Government to, from the approved State budget and all the instruments within its reach, ensure the necessary investments and the hiring of workers. Secondly, it must be borne in mind that this period of confinement, which has been followed by the generality of people, has had positive impacts on health, but has impacts that are not yet completely clear on the economic and social levels. Unemployment, reduction of income, closure of small businesses, accumulation of debts, degradation of living conditions are realities that are already present visibly but which will tend to achieve more worrying proportions in the coming months. This requires the government to place as priority the response to these problems rather than the deficit or the balance of public accounts. It is necessary to respond to workers and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It is necessary to respond to the workers of culture. It is necessary to evaluate and caution the problems for children and young people and, in general, the impacts on the mental health of Portuguese. Thirdly, it is essential to ensure, from now on, long-claimed responses, including protection and security in public transport, workplaces, schools, housing, so that defining, which is urgent, is done in a planned and safe manner without having to take steps back. Finally, access to a vaccine must be guaranteed to all Portuguese who want to take it. What is known to this day indicates that, essentially, the plan decided is being carried out in accordance with the plan. The problem is the absence of vaccines and, in this framework — we have already said — the government must take the necessary steps to diversify its purchase, not being dependent on European Union contracts, with a very limited number of pharmaceuticals, contracts, which is known to be by the few known, ruinous parties. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are called upon to debate the renewal of the state of emergency. The state of emergency has not been used to ensure the measures that have to be taken so far and has no use for what needs to be done in the immediate future. Let us hope that these debates will not help us to respond urgently to the problems we have now pointed out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u83	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the seventh state of emergency, we can say that the big bets that the state has made failed. We failed the tests, we failed the vaccination, we failed when we told people that we had one of the best SNS in the world, which is not compatible with dozens of ambulances at the hospital door, with people dying. We failed when we said that we were going to have fantastic pilot programs, such as the APOIR, which today are closed and without money, for those who desperately needed the support of the Portuguese state. Now that our neighbours begin to de-definite and that even England, which was given as the bad example of Europe, will begin to de-definite on 8 March, we continue closed, closed that we are, because it is the only possible solution in a government that has failed at all and that has not been able to predict what was coming there. But in the midst of this collective impoverishment of income, of bankruptcy, prominent socialists discuss whether we should send the Pattern of Discoveries below, or whether we should spend 15 million in the fight against racism, or whether we should destroy the Square of the Empire, with colonial symbols. It is money thrown out, while the Portuguese suffer in their homes, families and lives. This is not « enjoying with those who work», it is to enjoy with the Portuguese, and it should be serious to point out in this country. We spend money on everything and something else and, when we look at the last week, we realize that everything went down in Portugal, everything, except two things: the price of gasoline and unemployment. This is the country that we have to give to people, after years of sacrifice and months of confinement: a country that increases gasoline, that increases the cost of living, that reduces wages, that reduces employment and that destroys those who have made for themselves! I will finish with a sentence of Pedro Passos Rabbit,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u85	... which said: « These measures make the country bread and water. And a country is not given bread and water for mere precaution, it must be done only by patriotism. » I am afraid, I am sorry and ashamed that António Costa does not learn with Pedro Passos Coelho what it is to manage a country in times of crisis. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u86	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new state of emergency period, which Mr. President of the Republic requests that it be renewed, will begin, by the irony of fate, on the next day of March 2, on the day on which exactly one year has been completed since the first person infected with SARS-CoV-2 was detected in Portugal — one year. Official numbers indicate that, until today, 801 746 people have been infected and 16 185 people have died and we know that these numbers, if they fall for something, are by default. Many more will have had contact with the disease and serious health problems. The pain that all these Portuguese and their families suffered at this time deserves respect. First of all, it deserves respect from those who rule. And respect would have been to show competence in combating the pandemic; it would have been to know whether to be around the best and not to admit incompetence, not to admit health ministers with ideological prejudices that cost lives, not to admit ministers of education who level below when they defend that if the public school cannot teach, no one can teach, not admit an Minister of Internal Administration already without any political credit to coordinate this fight and to throw blame on the Portuguese, when it cannot coordinate the area that protects, as seen in the scandalous case of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ). Respect would have been to assume, from the outset, that treating the COVID pandemic cannot only be the COVID disease; it cannot be to ignore thousands of deaths in excess of other causes and to say that it was from the heat or cold, as if there were no heat and cold every year; it cannot be to ignore the mental health crisis, especially among the younger ones, that we have to limit for years; it cannot be to devalue the delays of learning and development, perhaps irrecoverable, of a whole generation; it cannot be kept the whole economy in a kind of induced coma, of which it may not awaken in time to compete successfully. Respect would have been not to insist on this boundary, which only shows disorientation, and assume the need to change strategy, as so many times the Liberal Initiative has proposed, assume that testing has to be massive, systematic and regular, assume that the strengthening of testing involves strengthening tracking and not allowing corporate interests to impede it. I would also have respected that the Prime Minister and the Government for once — once it was! — they would have recognized a mistake...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u88	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u89	... or assumed a responsibility with frontality, without « ses» and without « but», without being worthy when it runs well and throwing the blame on the Portuguese when it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u90	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u91	When we urgently needed it, the government gave us sleep. So, and because this decree does nothing to wake up the Government of that dormancy in which it prefers to dive the country, we will vote against the renewal of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u92	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u93	At a time of sanitary pandemic, we have witnessed the increase of violence in its various manifestations and even the banalization of violence, with incitement to hatred by parties with parliamentary representation. Therefore, it is necessary to remember that the banalization of violence affects democracy, affects the robustness of democratic institutions, even if it is addressed today to racialized subjects and concrete minorities. It should also be noted that since we are in a pandemic, there have been 900 suspects of domestic violence. Since we are in the pandemic, we know of the increase in various cases of violence, sexual abuse and child pornography. We also know of racist attacks and the increase of racial hatred through cyberbullying, an increase of total impunity. We also know that the European Committee has warned that ill-treatment by police forces was a reality. We are still aware of the violence of successive impoverishment. So, in times of emergency, in times of emergency, once again I repeat that we cannot forget democratic values, we cannot forget or relativize the increase in violence in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u94	I now give the floor to Mrs Rodrigues who did not register Cristina Rodrigues for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: School expenditure was already high in the budgets of families, but the economic crisis caused by the pandemic worsened the situation. in this context, international students attending Portuguese universities are particularly vulnerable. In addition, as a rule, they pay higher tips than nationals, they have come to us with complaints that account for the bad conditions of university accommodation and their exclusion from the support of social action services, in particular the supply of food. It is unacceptable to refuse meals to students displaced, isolated and who may have remained without any sources of income. We must also not forget that university residences are home to international students, who often stay there for months without being able to return home. For example, the collective Studentil Brigade reported that, at the University of Lisbon, infected students were being isolated in facilities without sanitary conditions; that, at the University of Porto, the value of the monthly residences was increased for students who divided the room and had to move to a private room; and that at the University of Aveiro students are being crowded in few blocks, having not even been made available to them hygiene products. There are reports of students who had to leave their homes because they could not bear the costs of lodging, others had to give up studying and others had to submit to informal or precarious work. Another of the students' demands is the lack of official information about the university action plan to isolate students who tested positive to COVID-19. It's just that there's not enough of a plan. It's necessary for students to get to know him. It is therefore important to reverse all these situations as soon as possible. I would also like to draw attention to the Portuguese who are detained in Brazil, without knowing when the repatriation flight will be carried out, and to the more than 300 Brazilians who are detained in Portugal and with purchased passages, which may not be able to return on Friday's flight, and it is urgent to ensure flights for all. Finally, an urgent debate must be held on the conditions of defination, hoping that we may no longer need to debate, as quickly as possible, the renewal of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u96	To close the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we appreciate a further request to renew the state of emergency. We do so in a context in which, together, about one hour ago, we have appreciated what was the most dramatic moment in this collective struggle that has been mobilizing Portuguese society for a year now, a pandemic of global size that is already occurring today, throughout Europe, more than 25 million cases and more than 500 000 fatal victims and that we must all join in what is a collective challenge of resilience, of affirmation of solidarity with the most fragile, of mobilization around the challenges of the National Health Service so that collectively we will find the way to, in democracy, to overcome the pandemic. It is in this framework that today we are confronted with results that demonstrate the full justification of what has been the effort of the entire Portuguese society throughout these last few weeks. We have spent a terrible month in January when, in 18 days, we have exceeded the 10,000 cases recorded, to a month in which this limit has never been exceeded and in which we have significantly lower values of new infections. We went from a time when we recorded 84,000 cases per week, at the worst of the weeks of January, to 11 000 cases last week. We have reached a peak of demand for response from the National Health Service, in which we had 6869 admissions on February 1st, and to this day we are with a little more than one third of this value, with 2613 hospitalization cases. Similarly in that which is the most critical dimension of the pandemic response, we passed from 904 cases in intensive care, on the most dramatic day of this pandemic, to the 536 that were registered today in the Bulletin of the Directorate-General for Health. And the number of active cases, i.e. the number of citizens who are infected every day — perhaps that number that allows us to have a size of the collective effort these last few weeks — dropped by a peak of 181,000 to the 73 000 cases we have today, almost 110 000 cases less than we had one month ago. This demonstrates the full adequacy of the particularly demanding, particularly difficult measures that have affected everyone, who have excessive, tremendous costs for the most fragile and therefore justify support for employment, such as support for layoff, support for weaker companies, support for self-employed people, measures to enable efforts to be mobilised. Regardless of the knowledge that we do not have, regardless of the desire to know more about the response to a pandemic, which has had a response from science, such as resource mobilization, with a speed never known in the history of humanity, irrespective of that, it is by reducing contagios that we have managed to influence the tendency of the pandemic. And it is this reduction of contagios that brings us these heavy days of January to the hope of spring that is approaching. Therefore, the sign of the hope of vaccination also conquers its path: we reach, exactly today, the number of half a million Portuguese who have already received at least one dose of the vaccine. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this vaccination is done with clear and solidarityal priorities. The first to be vaccinated were the health professionals of the structures of the National Health Service, especially those who, in the hospital context, were in the first line of combating the pandemic. Then it was those users and workers who are in the homes and other residential structures for the elderly. Next, it was those who today are in the most fragile sectors or who require a mobilization of resources for the response. That is why it is so significant that about 20 % of vaccination has already been reached for those over 80 years of age. And even we have surpassed — responding to the anguish that some had — the indicator defined two weeks ago by more than 15 000 vaccinated firefighters: there are about 16 000 firefighters — of emergency response, but also preparing already the answer to the challenge of other demands, such as that of rural fires — which, today, are already vaccinated, as a priority within an essential function of the State. With this data, which, as one honourable Member recently said, are encouraging, what is the answer? The answer is to continue, is to mobilize this unit that allows us to have President of the Republic, Government and I believe that more than 90 % of the Members — who will vote in a few minutes — who will be mobilized to realize that we aspire to defination, but that it is not time to definate today, that we aspire to the reactivation of economic activities, but that we have here to mobilize our efforts to sustain us with firmness, and as quickly as possible, to initiate this reactivation of activities. This period allowed us, in addition to the fact that in hospital structures the COVID units are being reduced, to begin to resume the responses in the National Health Service, to another type of priorities, which have, either in their surgical dimension, or in their regular response dimension, to be received. This period allowed us, preparing for the return of face-to-face education, to resume school activities in a distance education dimension. But it also enables us to strengthen support for the most vulnerable. This social stability is fundamental and, unlike many countries, where these restrictions are accompanied by increasing social conflict, the data in Portugal point to an essentially pedagogical intervention by the security forces. In Portugal, the effectiveness of monitoring, support for disinfections, support by the Republican National Guard, isolated elderly persons or the daily verification of conditions for respect for prophylactic isolation by those who are sick or in isolation did not result in an increase in social tension. On the contrary, provisional data point to a significant reduction in both general crime and violent and serious crime in 2020. It is in this picture that we have to mobilize today, the week in which we are going to have more vaccines given than Portuguese infected, which we will reach at the end of this week. This is how, with determination, with a sense of resilience and sense of mobilization of all, we must increase the response space of health structures, we must increase the space that allows the return to school, we must increase the space that allows the recovery of economic activities, we must, in the hope of how we effectively respond to this heavy winter, create the hope of spring coming there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u98	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this debate. We shall immediately proceed to the vote, since we have 224 ladies and gentlemen. Members registered. We shall therefore vote on the request for authorisation to renew the state of emergency declaration. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of BE.]] This request for the renewal of the state of emergency was therefore approved by a large majority. We will now turn to the third item on our agenda, which is generally discussed in the Bill No 72 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the framework law on public utility status. To open the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, André Moz Caldas. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reform of the public utility status of the proposed law here under discussion is based on one of the objectives of the XXII Constitutional Government Programme to undertake a comprehensive and integrated review of the legislation applicable to entities with public utility status, in order to enhance the philanthropic or Community-wide initiative, recognizing the essential role these institutions play in our social fabric, combating the stigma that has been generated and reinforcing the instruments of monitoring their activities. The objectives of this bill are simple and clear: legislative consolidation, administrative simplification, greater rigour. This bill consolidates in a single degree all the discipline relating to the status of public utility currently dispersed by an extensive set of avulged diplomas, simplifying and dematerializing the administrative procedures associated with the statute. The legal regime of the current public utility status is set out in Decree-Law No 460 / 77 of 7 November. Having not undergone real fundamental changes, the same is inevitably dated and lacks profound modernisation. With this in mind, the proposed regime presents a number of differences from the current one. It is envisaged that legal persons who benefit from the rights and prerogatives associated with the statute by law, but not from the statute itself, will require the allocation of the statute by administrative means because they recognize that there may be effective interest in this award for reputational reasons. The status of public utility, attributed by administrative act, according to this proposal, is always fixed, which will normally be eight years, or, in exceptional cases, up to 15 years, with the possibility of renewal for the same periods. A minimum number of members shall also be established in respect of associations or cooperatives which primarily pursue the interests of their members in order to ensure that the status is attributed only to legal persons who pursue extended interests. This minimum value is twice as many of the members who hold positions in the social organs of the collective person. However, they are not subject to this limit to associations or cooperatives who, primarily pursuing the interests of their members, have as associates or co-operatives legal persons, since, for these, that minimum number would not be truly representative of the protected interests. It is proposed to implement a scheme to monitor the activity and monitor the fulfilment of the obligations imposed on legal persons who have the status of public utility and, in the event of irregularities detected, a reversal of the benefits granted may occur. In addition, it is determined that the use of false public utility designations, in order to deceive the public authority, to obtain for yourself or for another person illegitimate benefit or to harm the interests of another person, insofar as it is particularly reprehensible, also seeking to discourage potential offenders. The participation of all and all is essential and therefore public consultation was promoted in the ConsultingLex portal as well as a particularly large number of direct consultations. This was a highly-participated procedure which has made an invaluable contribution to the version which has been submitted to this House and which is being discussed here in general. In summary: legislative consolidation, administrative simplification, greater rigour. It is the Government's firm belief that this bill will allow for a real development in the legal and social context of the pursuit of public interest purposes by private collectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u100	For an intervention by the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present here: Institutions with public utility status play a key role in supporting populations, in particular the most vulnerable, including support for animals, environmental protection and natural, cultural and ecological heritage. However, until now, they have been subjected to high bureaucracy to access the support which, often, are no more than migalas in the face of herculeum work that they have continued, including often replacing themselves with the role that the State should play. in this bill we highlight as positive the fact that it enables, and well, that the entities acting in the animal protection sector can finally gain access to the status of public utility and benefit from the corresponding benefits and rights that this statute carries, because, although they had the opportunity to access the status, they did not always benefit from the tax benefits resulting there and the clarification that it operates here is absolutely essential for the role they have so far played. However, and also stressing the role they have played in this support, we regret that this proposal does not extend the status of public utility to entities acting in the defence of natural heritage, leaving out the defense of ecological and cultural heritage, which has mainly gained importance with the creation, for example, of geoparks integrated into the UNESCO network. It is also strange that religious matrix organizations are excluded from this status but that go beyond that matrix, namely the examples of the National Body of Listening or of the Catholic Workers' Youth. It is also incomprehensible that this proposal, which both increases the control mechanisms of these entities, does not ensure more than just deburrocratisation of the process of granting the status, in particular with regard to its annual obligations, such as the provision of accounts for the financial year each year. It is an obligation which already stems from the legislation itself but which may be difficult to comply with in due course with by some entities, in particular those which are linked to youth and student associations, if not accompanied by other support mechanisms, such as the technical support provided by the State itself. It is also regrettable that this proposal does not go beyond the benefits granted to associations and volunteers, because it was of the most basic justice, for example, to ensure the exemption of the value to be paid for obtaining the criminal registration certificate, an essential element for associations that involve regular contact with minors and which, each year, brings unnecessary compensation to volunteers. Finally, we cannot fail to draw attention to an aspect that has to do with the abuses that occur in the current legal framework. We cannot continue to admit that the public heritage granted to entities with public utility status is exempt from IMI (municipal property tax) when, after that, these entities continue to profit—as is the example of the Small Field Square, which benefits from an exemption of EUR 12 million per year and which, in addition to pursuing a financial activity that obtains the profit, still allows animals to be slaughtered there—or accept that the public utility status may serve to EDP to ensure other tax bubbles to increase those already existing, such as the sale of the International Douro dams to Engie, that we have heard recently. In order to demonstrate that, in fact, in our specialty, we will have a way to go and the NAP will not be exempt from proposing these same amendments to the initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u102	You have the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I believe that, to some extent, it has just been demonstrated that, with this proposal, the Government does not solve all the problems relating to these entities or, at least, causes substantive reform in this area. It has a set of intentions, more laudable ones, more controversial ones, but still all of them perceptible. From the outset, the idea of centralizing references to these entities and to the status itself in a single diploma, which seems to be a central objective. Secondly, it also has — and we therefore do not criticise — an intention to simplify and dematerialize, i.e. an intention to, to this end, avoid a set of unnecessary bureaucracies, which also seems acceptable to us. Then what do we have? We have to have the government here, with a distinction, which is classic, among the private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ), people of mere public utility and people of public utility. This is a traditional, classic distinction, with which some of us had the opportunity to begin dealing in the school banks, in my case, with Dr. Freitas do Amaral, for example, and with Dr. João Caupers, now so mentioned, but for other reasons, and recently elected President of the Constitutional Court, at the time Professor of Administrative Law at the Faculty of Lisbon Law. Therefore, this perception is already more questionable, it is already more critical and it is not necessarily understandable its advantage. Finally, and in addition to this, the diploma has an essential objective—and let us say that, from this point of view, the period of eight years will be more reasonable— which is, in a simpler language, the idea of living proof. The idea of proof of life does not shock me, in absolute terms. Some say: "If they already have the status, if they exist as such and if they are in the register, why have to make a living? » But it doesn’t shock me the idea of proof of life. It shocks me, when much, the evaluation of it. We have in fact a certain governmental concentration of this same subject and of the same analysis which, of course, can be questionable, especially when we do not realize whether we want to extend or restrict, although today we realize that candidates for this status will not be lacking, especially entities who are questionable. Therefore, I think it is necessary to have a serious and profound discussion about this and the CDS will obviously not run away from this discussion, but in the field of expertise, if this is the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u104	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD, Mr José Cancela Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Government intends to put an end to the legislative dispersal by consolidating the legal regime of public utility in a single degree. It is a generous objective, to which the PSD will make a serious contribution and, although we reserve ourselves for the specialty, we can no longer raise questions which should be considered carefully, from the point of view of the obligation to prove cooperation with the Public Administration for the award of the statute. I disregard this cooperation as a counterparty sine qua no of the rights and benefits of public utility seems to be driven by reality and is rooted in the obsession of having an omnipresent state in everything and for everything. The utility is public because it is useful to the general population, not having to be subordinated and reverent to the State. There may be, and certainly, private entities that pursue purposes of undeniable public utility without, therefore, having to have this special relationship of cooperation with the State, such as NGOs (non-governmental organizations) or philharmonics. In our view, it is urgent to let society breathe and change this paradigm.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u107	Another relevant issue is the period of validity of the statute. The public utility declaration is currently granted without a deadline and remains valid as long as the beneficiary entity fulfils its duties. It is now proposed a limited duration of eight years, with the possibility of successive renewals. Why eight? Is it only coincidence to correspond to two government mandates? This matter must neither be obeyed by any political logic, and eight years seems to us to be short, paying attention to the permanence of the compromise. We consider it more appropriate that the status period corresponds to the 15 years that the diploma already provides for specific or special social projects, until the status is assigned to entities and not to projects. I am making a repair now as to the possibility of dispensation of the requirement of effective activity for at least three years. This is the creation of an exception, which implies a degree of political commitment which cannot and should not be delegated to a secretary or director-general. We defend that this dispensation should be formalised by the properly substantiated ministerial office, which makes it explicit the exceptionality of the situation. The formalism for the renewal of the statute must also be complemented, in order to ensure greater effectiveness of the procedure. A prior notification mechanism, carried out by the State itself one year before the end of the period, should be introduced in order to avoid unexpected expiry of the statute. Under the procedures now provided for the confirmation of interest in the maintenance of the statute or its new allocation, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers will have a database, with indexed dates, which will enable this measure to be implemented with relative ease and obvious gains. With regard to the counter-ordination regime, the subjective elements of illegitimate benefit or intention to deceive do not make sense, which will only serve to promote litigation. Infringement should only be the improper use of the designation of public utility and, frankly, it is not understood how there is an attempt in this unlawful counter-order, nor is it understood why a sanction is established for a natural person who uses the designation of public utility when the status is attributed only to legal persons. Finally, there are thousands of associations of resource parks and small size spread across the country that can pass by this kind of life-test that they have to do to maintain the status of public utility. It is essential that this procedure should reach everyone, without exception. We therefore propose to promote a large national information and dissemination campaign of this kind of life proof and a review of the regime, taking advantage of the unique proximity relationship and the organic and functional link that municipal chambers and fregetes feed with associations and with institutions of philanthropic initiative and community scope, involving, of course, the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ) and the National Association of Municipalities. It is an aspect that should be included in the preambular diploma itself, so that no entity is forgotten or may, inadvertently, lose its status. In other words, in the way of those who promise a lot and do not practice, we can't let anyone stay behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u108	For an intervention by the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The bill we are discussing, which aims to consolidate and update the regime applicable to public utility people, has an undeniable currentity. From then on, because the public utility regime applies to a very heterogeneous set of entities, some public, others private, with a very different legal nature, ranging from foundations to cultural and recreational groups, passing through firefighters and mercy, and covering the most different areas of social intervention. It is therefore necessary, from a legislative point of view, to carry out a rigorous lifting on the entities to whom the status of public utility should be recognised. In addition, there are several public entity award titles ranging from the statute of administrative public utility, for example from firefighter associations to the status of public sports utility, for example from the Portuguese Football Federation. It is therefore necessary to establish clearly the diversity of arrangements applicable to different entities. And there are still different titles for the acquisition of the status of public utility by individual recognition made by the Government, either on request or directly from the legal allocation. That is, there is much work to do and the technical complexity of this bill is a good example of this. Apart from the technical issue, there is also the question of substance, which is the question of what the concrete state support regime should be for the different public-purpose collectives. This point, for the CFP, is essential. Recognition of the status of public utility means recognition by the State of the role played by the public concerned. They play a role that the State could or should play, but they do not. The backbone of the civil protection system, which is based on volunteer firefighters, or the national sports system, which is based on thousands of sports collectives and on the efforts of tens of thousands of voluntary associations, or on access to culture and recreation, based on the effort of thousands of associations, must involve a concrete recognition, which is not merely symbolic but has a real value and a positive impact of a heritage and financial nature on the functioning of the people concerned, which can even be essential to ensure their survival. This is a very PCP issue. The law which was adopted in 1999 by this House, and which is still in force today — Law No. 151 / 99, which updated the regime of royalties and tax exemptions of public utility collectives, which came from Decree-Law No. 460 / 77 of 7 November, resulted from the approval of the draft law of the CFP, submitted in December 1998. The approved regime was below what the PCP proposed in its initial project, but corresponded to a common denominator that was possible to consensualize by a large majority. At that time too, there was no absolute majority that could prevent all positive initiatives coming from the opposition. However, with the passing of time, absolute majority and austerity budgets have been degrading the status of public utility and withdrawing benefits from it. It would be important that this legislative initiative could give rise to a revitalization of the status of public utility and as it did in 1998 or as it did in June 2009 when it presented a bill which expired at the end of the legislature, the CFP continues its efforts to contribute to improve the status of public utility and to positively revise its corresponding public support regime. It is with this spirit and with this expectation that the CFP will face the debate on the speciality of this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u110	You have the floor for an intervention by the PS, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : What we are discussing today is an important reform, in an important area for the country's associative and foundational fabric, which, through a legislative initiative that consolidates a very extensive legislative blanket, seeks to simplify procedures but also does not cease to review legal regimes that appear, in some cases, already inadequate or, in others, not sufficiently detailed in the provision of accounts and in the follow-up and which, therefore, should be welcomed by the significant advance that brings to the sector. More than just updating old regimes, what is really proposed is to look at how it should be the relationship of the State and public institutions with those entities that, rather, collaborate with the Public Administration in the realization of its purposes and, for this reason, should be recognized as public utility. The old Decree-Law No 470/77 — perhaps old is abusive, because it is only three years older than I am and, therefore, it will not be as old as that — it is clearly inadequate, too, to a fabric of public institutions, which has changed, and to a network of local authorities, which, as has already been mentioned, also has a very important role in the front line in the relationship with these entities, and all must be called to the discussion of this same regime. That said, it is important not to lose sight of the fact that the granting of the status of public utility, although it can, of course, often have a symbolic dimension, a dimension that is important for the institutions because of the recognition and merit that it brings them, also has an important effect in the field of public expenditure, which is reflected in the tax benefits they hold. in this sense, having a regime that is, on the one hand, disciplinary, allowing supervision, and on the other hand, also allows to verify effectively whether the assumptions of the concession remain, makes all the sense. That is why it is a little strange some of the interventions we have already heard. Mr Cancela Moura, a little while ago, said that it was illogical to continue to demonstrate cooperation with the Public Administration. Don't! It makes every sense to continue to demonstrate cooperation with the Public Administration, because it is precisely this cooperation that justifies that it disappears, or at least that it is transferred from the public record, an amount that would enter this area through the payment of taxes and fees rather than being allocated to that entity. And if that entity carries out, and must continue to carry out, a public utility mission, it must therefore be recognised and therefore makes sense to revisit it, because if it is not a species to the entities benefiting from this revenue, of course, it cannot make them species, too, that they are accountable for that same reality. Therefore, it is not a whole totalitarian state trying to invade the associative sphere. It is a question of recognizing that a benefit is granted for the activity to develop itself, of course, there must be accountability and whether there is present in the assumptions that were at its base. And some examples which Mr has given are perfectly plausible and compatible with the procedure for granting, be it an NGO in the most diverse areas, be it a philharmonic — and how many are indeed not those that hold the status of public utility— precisely because they demonstrate, in the educational field, in the cultural field, in the field of other philanthropic activities, that they must benefit from the same reality. Looking at the proposal that is presented to us, it also clarifys the reality of the institutions that are, by direct force of the law, beneficiaries of the status of those who must go through a more detailed call for the concession, which actually passes by looking at the activity they develop and, from there, grant, or not, the status. in this field, there is a separation of waters which is clarifying, but which is also clarifying to say that there are certain circumstances in which, although the legal regime is applicable, an institution may have an interest in being recognized by a decision, let us say, from the top of the structure of the Public Administration, its cooperation with the State and those entities. Therefore, this clarification is also particularly welcome. Basically, it is important to emphasize the flexibility that has already been mentioned, the agility and dematerialization of procedures. We can often not imagine it, but a process relating to the granting of the status of public utility can involve a very significant meeting of a stack of documents, which involves not only the "partnership" gathered with local authorities and other institutions such as the process of verification itself, let us say, of financial health, of the reality of that institution and therefore dematerialization may seem a detail but it is not just a detail. It has an environmental dimension, of course, by the amount of paper that is saved, but it is important, essentially, by the agility that will bring to all these institutions, which not only have a more agile process for their initial recognition but will also have, later, easy to renew. Finally, of course, all of this cannot be done by exempting the supervision of the status, accountability, transparency before the citizens, with the publication of the activity reports, precisely because, if you are the beneficiary of a statute that gives you tax benefit, it is natural for the citizen to understand how this institution is managed. It would even go further, leaving a lead for discussion in the specialty: perhaps in some areas a regime of access to documents of these associations, like what happens to public entities, can make sense—in a limited way, not so much, of course, as in a public entity—because a citizen may want to know how in the collective A, B or C support given to him by an autarchy, but also, and especially, the money allocated from the decision of the State to recognise public utility is spent. Therefore, it is a regime that is robust, clear and clarifying, which increases the capacity to democratically monitor the use of resources that are of the community and therefore it is no exaggeration to say that the government is pleased with what it presents. But the House has an opportunity to improve, in particular, the initiative, to deepen some of these elements, with many of the clues left by the ladies and gentlemen. Members, from the PCP, PSD and CDS, too. I therefore believe that, in the debate of the specialty, we can contribute to an improvement of this regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u112	I now call on Mr José Manuel Pureza for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: When we talk about public utility people, we refer to institutions with very different origins, purposes and traditions. From immigrant associations to youth movements, from institutions born from the workers' movement of the late 19th century and from the early 20th century, such as The Voice of the Workers, to recreational associations born from the self-organization of workers or the Working Circles encouraged by the Church. From large cultural foundations, which for decades were essential pillars of a cultural policy that occupied the voids of the state, such as Gulbenkian, to neighborhood cultural associations that wanted to provide the territorially relegated communities with their own voice, of services that were lacking, of cultural and training spaces, such as the Moinho da Juventude, founded in the 1980s of the 20th century by a couple who settled in Amadora after other militant settings. Since trade union confederations, which also benefit from this status, an important part of the cooperative movement, as a democratic alternative to an economy planned by the State and to the despotism of the market economy. Since the mercys, with an ancient religious and assistance tradition, the CERCI(cooperatives for the education and rehabilitation of inadequate children) born after the Revolution, by the hand of friends and family members of people with disabilities, in the urgent need to create a dignified response that did not exist for people with disabilities. From the myriad of IPSS, which today take over 70% of social responses financed by social security in the area of childhood, old age or dependent people, to feminist organizations such as UMAR (Union of Alternative Women and Response), which in 2010 at the end of 34 years of militancy against patriarchal oppression and gender justice, it was recognized that status of public utility. This status is thus a fair way of recognizing the role these organisations play in our society. This special status enables them to be partners of the State, recognises its role in the representation of the civil society initiative, assigns them tax benefits so that they continue their non-profit and promotion of the common good. Despite this great diversity, we have nothing against which to standardise procedures, as the Government now proposes, regarding the recognition of this status. Nothing to oppose this intention, although we can discuss details and modes. Above all, it seems to us that it should be stressed, more clearly, as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has now done, as a counterpart to the status that the State recognises, the requirement for compliance with rules of transparency and publicity in the directions, in the accounts and evidence of the attachment to the public good that presides over the initiatives. But, of course, there's no beauty without it. In some fundamental areas, these organizations, as in the case of social care, constitute a true secondary civil society, born under the impulse of State funding and as a result of policies for the outsourcing of social responsibilities. In fact, when social security is prevented from financing public homes, public homes or public day centres, the creation of a large private social sector that depends on the financing of the State but does not have the same rules, the same requirements and the same scrutiny as are required for the public service. It is the State that feeds competition against itself or prevents itself from doing what it has to do. If we recognize the fundamental role of organised civil society, we do not recognize ourselves in a model that invokes it to deresponsibility of the State for guaranteeing essential rights, through strong and agile public services, thus feeding responses that are referred to the field of social assistance or assistance when they should assume the nature of public action for respect for social rights. This orientation, exalted by the third way, disguises the neoliberal ideology behind a rhetoric of the praise of civil society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u114	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u115	It's true, it is! And its concrete result is, invariably, the weakening of public responsibility and the creation of standards of dual service and labour standards, with the State outsourcing of functions because it pays cheaper and does not require to respect professional careers and wage standards of the public service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u116	The same can be said of some foundations that depend entirely on the state but whose management escapes from public control.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u117	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u118	I will finish, Mr. President. Moreover, they were created to apply to the performance of public functions the principles of private management. The result, and I finish Mr. President, we know - well: while the state was required to comply with the law and pay for the activities cancelled by the pandemic, the House of Music and the Fundação de Serralves were shielded in its foundational status to exempt themselves from these obligations, giving the worst and most regrettable example in the treatment of workers who are exposed to precariousness. I should like to conclude by saying that it is a clear rule and a transparent regime that is supported and recognised by this social force which is these organizations, but that the use of these legal figures as biombos is also considered, giving the State what must be of the state and civil society what only it can do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u119	I believe that we can take the floor, to close this debate, to Mr State Secretary of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was essentially the preliminary part of the speciality, which will be the time when we will deepen what still, perhaps, diverts the political forces represented in this House, but the general consensus will allow a significant set of approaches that will give rise to a bill. I recall that the Government had full power to legislate in this matter and it is by choice that it should bring it to this House so that this consensus can be formed. This will also allow some misconceptions from a deeper reading of the bill, of which I give only two examples: the first is that an extinction of school that has no practical consequences can be maintained, while extinction of school, regardless of the prestige of those who formulated it. That will be one of the first misconceptions we can take away. The second misconception is that cooperation with the Public Administration is a prerequisite for obtaining this status — it has been a central requirement for obtaining this status since 1977. He proved no one's disagreement until, today, the PSD surprised us with the first blooming of this difference. It is the only way to prevent the attribution of this status from arbitrary. It is the only way to demonstrate that these entities deserve, for their distinction, benefits and royalties, but also the reputational dimension that the use of the designation allows them. I am sure that the debate in the specialty will also allow us to recognize that this work that the Government has presented is based on an experience of decades of the Public Administration, independent of circumstantial governments in the relationship between the central administration and a set of representatives of the decentralized administration, or of the local administration, in the treatment with this type of entities and that it deserves a little less logic, let us say, linked to the circumstances of governance that are merely conjunctural and that pollute this debate, reducing the quality that it could have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u121	We will move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Bill No 73 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Enables access to data by public entities for confirmation of access requirements to the APOIAR Programme, in general, along with the Resolution Project No 983 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Enlargement of the APOIAR RENDAS programme. To present the Government's bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a law which the Government brings to the Assembly of the Republic is intended to enable the sharing of public administration data at the service of simplification, in this case, in the allocation of support for the payment of income, depending on the reality of each company. It is necessary to make use of information on electronic receipts, particularly on landlords who are under the IRS regime ( income tax for natural persons ), it is necessary to use the constant information on e-invoicing for legal persons and it is also necessary to articulate with the database where the reporting of leases has existed since 2015, and for which, in relation to contracts prior to 2015, natural persons have made a simple communication. The set of access to these data is relevant so that you can confirm what is the lease contract and what is the value of the income. The need for authorization by the Assembly of the Republic is to protect what is the information of third parties, because what is involved in this bill is that support is required by the tenant but these data — the value of income, the tax identification number and the contract number — are provided by the landlord. As such, unlike the other APOIAR Programme, where the data it accesses are given with the consent of the beneficiary, in this case, by accessing the data that are provided by third parties to the tax administration, it was considered necessary to obtain approval, if VV. For example, they understand this from Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u123	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs: On 18 March 2020 the first state of emergency was decreed. The country entered into confinement and, with it, all economic activity. For about two months, the country has been in minimal activity and many sectors, especially those of public service, have been closed or with reduced activity. Nevertheless, the fixed costs of all these activities — water, light, communications and income — remained. For the first, several measures were taken, so that there was no supply cut, since the values are reduced by the non-use or lower use of the goods already in itself. But also since March 18 that economic activity has been reduced and that the use of rented spaces or in a contract of use practically does not exist. At the same time, however, income was generally maintained in the same speculative values that were previously practiced. And here we recall the responsibility they had in this framework for all the measures that different governments were taking in deregulation of the price of real estate, in promoting speculation and gentrification. The lack of protection we have seen since 1990 in the lease, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is the one that leaves not only the commercial and housing tenants such as the Country, the economy and the return, in the hands of the gold visas, the real estate funds and the real estate speculation. Yes, it is true, there were moratoriums on the lease and there was also the extension of contracts for short periods. But, let's agree, it's very little. The Government and the Socialist Party continue to resist the need to adopt a system of temporary income declines so that, in solidarity, all sectors share the costs of the pandemic. But on the part of the government, nothing has to be touched by real estate, nothing has to be touched by speculation. On 10 December 2020, after the continued lack of support and insistence on the need to support the payment of income that year, an announcement arrives: the government would support the payment of income. It does not drop the artificially maintained values in the incomes practiced—in fact, quite the contrary—but it assigns a subsidy that is, in fact, a breath for so many small entrepreneurs, for individual entrepreneurs, for commercial spaces that, throughout the year 2020, have seen their activity deeply affected and the income and fixed costs in debt to grow. Today, February 25, 2021, we will renew a new state of emergency, a new confinement of more than one month, but income support remains the same, with one exception: the Budget, for last year, has fallen to half and the government has inexplicably limited access. No one understands the misappropriations and the office that limits the door. How is it conceivable, for example, that individual employers without employees do not have income support? Why do only contracts after 2015 have income support? Why is it that those who have changed business during this year or the past year, precisely because they could not pay the value of the previous income and can hardly afford the current income, can't access the income support? The proposal which the Government brings here today, with regard to the Tax Authority and communication, is in the right direction to speed up the allocation of income support. But it should also work towards extending the scope of this support, which has been limited by the implementation of the portarium which has been implemented by the government. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Mr Secretary of State, leaving no one behind is a « word to fill ». It is urgent that the Government correct these errors and that this House, during this afternoon, have the chance to demonstrate to the Government, approving the draft resolution that the Left Block puts here to the vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u125	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: Every day we see reports that account for the many difficulties that people and companies face in accessing the support programmes that the government has designed — some, because they are not comprehensive and others, because state machine entities do not articulate themselves, almost all by much bureaucracy, always by bureaucracy, which is required. One of the programs whose scope is often criticized is the APOIAR, since individual entrepreneurs, regardless of the number of employees and whether or not they have organized accounting, have had almost systematically great difficulties in accessing them. As regards bureaucracy, one of the bad examples is the obligation to register on the electronic portal of the Tax Authority for the deposit of income, something that has only become compulsory a few years ago, so many contracts concluded before that date simply do not have that registration. In addition, through a recent study by Banco de Portugal, it can be concluded that the 20 % support limit for sales under the APOIAR Programme means that there are sectors that cannot cover fixed costs. This is the case with restoration and accommodation, sectors already described as martyrs of this crisis, which have average fixed costs above 30 % of sales and therefore have to pay to be closed by order of the Government. That is to say, a government that has for years forced companies to pay countless taxes and fees, not only does it not allow them to open them up to work as it draws insufficient, complex and difficult access support. More than ever, one of the peaks of the Liberal Initiative is justified: Portugal must be decomplicated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u127	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The socio-economic crisis we live in requires concrete responses to support for families and also businesses, as the PAN has long defended, and answers that do not even go down in the peaceland bureaucracy. The bill presented here today by the Government and the initiative taken by the Left Block are a step in strengthening these same support, and we will of course follow them. But we need to go further. They have left out essential aspects and concrete answers to the problems that persist since the beginning of this pandemic. For example, we are talking about unfairness with regard to individual employers without employees, which the NAP has already presented. And here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, if we miss our memory, it is important to remember that more than two thirds of small and medium-sized enterprises in Portugal are constituted by individual entrepreneurs. In 2018, small and medium-sized enterprises already accounted for around 67% of all Portuguese companies, many of them in the trade and restoration sectors. Now, given this expressiveness, it is inevitable that many people are staying behind and outside these same supports. The INE itself ( National Institute of Statistics ) points out that 72, 5 % of individual entrepreneurs have no employee in their own hands besides themselves, which means that we are talking about 634 000 entrepreneurs, that is, 49 %, almost half of our business fabric, are entrepreneurs in the individual name without employees in charge. In view of these numbers and looking at the criteria of the APOIAR programme, it seems to us that something is missing here. In the sectors most affected by the restriction of economic activities, we cannot forget that the smaller the company is the larger its impact and there is at present a very large number of entrepreneurs and companies at risk of closing their doors and not opening them again. The case of individual entrepreneurs is particularly worrying, taking into account the limited support they can use, particularly for trade, restoration and culture sectors, where the only support they have available is APOIAR + SIMPLES, to support liquidity, and APOIAR RENDAS, to support paid income, which is clearly insufficient. In addition, under the APOIAR programme regulation itself, all individual entrepreneurs who do not have their own employees are excluded from these support. This exclusion means that, only in the trade and restoration sectors, about 139 000 individual entrepreneurs will not be able to use the APOIAR programme. If we join the other sectors, we are talking about 634 000 entrepreneurs who do not have access to this support. It therefore seems to us that it is the most basic social justice and equity in access to the support that is rectified in this matter, as a matter of specialty. The PAN will continue to defend that. We understand that the government must withdraw the obligation of individual employers to have employees in its own name and to facilitate what the meshes so far have in some way restricted access to these support. Therefore, we appeal to a consensus on what work can be, in the specialty, to rectify this manifest social injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The word today is 'impreparation'. The government has demonstrated what we already know: its total impreparation to effectively support the economy and entrepreneurs, specifically small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we recognize that Portugal, not a rich country, cannot support companies at the level of what other countries do, and that is not what we censor. But because this is the case, the more it required who rules. It is not enough to create programs and support if they do not reach those who need them and make them give up those who compete and need them. At the end of 2020, the Government was announcing a new generation of support, some of which needed a legislative initiative from the PSD to gain life and to be approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. And we arrive at the end of February, we arrive to this day, and we are discussing here, in this House, what are practical and procedural aspects of the programmes, aspects that should have been thought and regulated when the programmes are set up. Mr. Secretary of State, I am sorry, but there is little, when I listened to it, it seemed that we were discussing the beginning, the launch, the previous requirements of the programme. So I apologize for the boldness of the question: what are you doing? Oh, my God! This government initiative only shows that we have an improvised government and that it took three months to realize that public administration bodies need to communicate with each other. But wasn't it possible to predict this at the time? Was it not possible to think of the measures necessary to make life easier for people and businesses? It's unbelievable, Mr. Secretary of State! The Government is launching support programmes, it will present them on television, but it never reaches where it is needed and to whom it needs. So it happened with the managers, it happened with the entrepreneurs on their own behalf, it happened with the shopkeepers and it happened and it happens, constantly, with the tenants in general. The government does not list the needs when it creates the programmes, does not create the basic requirements for access to the same programmes, does not create the necessary tools and facilitators for anyone who wants to ask for support. The result is what we see, it is obvious and could not be another: the programmes delay, people give up and give up everything, abdicate support, abdicate business, often abdicate dreams that, in time of pandemic, was more than the obligation of the government to protect. Consequently, what do we have? We have money that is announced for support and that is diluted, it is not known very well where or by whom. There is no programme of this government, in time of pandemic, that has not been confused and completely outside of what has been announced. And this is so much more serious when, here, the government continues to ignore and from wrong assumptions. Mr. Secretary of State, how does it continue to require that anyone who requires support for paying income must submit the proof of the payment of income? This is unbelievable. Are people resorting to support for the payment of income, and do you require proof of the payment of income? Oh, my God! This is unbelievable. The proof of payment of income? The value is in the contract; the evidence is not necessary, nor is it possible, because people have not paid. If you are demanding proof of payment, this will leave everyone out, all of you! These entrepreneurs didn't pay because they couldn't. That is why they need support, so they are making use of these support. What is lacking in understanding regarding this aspect? Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today is just the most serious confession of impreparation of the government to deal with the difficulties of small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u131	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is public and well known, the consequences of the pandemic we are living have not only been felt at the level of public health, have also spread to the social and economic levels. And if it is true that these consequences, or effects, at the social and economic level have begun to feel since last spring, it is also true that they have gained another dimension in the second confinement. In any case, we have been confronted almost a year ago with strong limitations with regard to economic activity, with very negative effects and reaching all sectors of activity. Taking stock of the accounts and following closely what the data from the National Institute of Statistics tell us, we found that more than half of the companies in our country have experienced substantial reductions in turnover, but only 30% have been able to access the support measures that the government has provided. They are actually numbers that give us thought, but if we look at the restorative sector numbers we realize that the numbers are even more worrying. In fact and continuing to follow INE data, more than 80 % of the catering companies have experienced very heavy failures in turnover, but only half of them have been able to access support and more than 70 % have already lost hope of accessing any support, not only because of lack of information but also because of the bureaucratic nature that normally accompanies these processes. In the light of the Greens, these figures should lead the Government to equalize the form, but also the universe of the recipients of such support. It is true that at the end of last year the Government announced the creation of the APOIAR RENDAS programme seeking to respond to one of the biggest problems facing trade areas during the period during which economic activity limitations occur. Nevertheless, there are aspects in this programme that we believe should be duly weighted by the government. We are talking in particular about the access of individual entrepreneurs, regardless of the number of workers or even the nature of their accounts, and the Greens therefore also believe that it is necessary to take measures to ensure that the support reaches those who need it and that it is time to prevent the closure of many micro and small enterprises from taking on a definitive nature. Among other measures, we stress, inter alia, the need to allow access to this programme to individual entrepreneurs with or without organised accounting and regardless of whether or not they have workers under their responsibility or, in addition, to put an end to compulsory registration of the Finance Portal and to seek other solutions such as the crossing of information, in accordance with the legislative initiative of the Left Block which is also under discussion and that the Greens follow up, as we also follow up with the proposal that the Government has allocated for today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u133	For the PCP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : A first problem — perhaps the most serious of this debate — is the fact that it is only now, on 25 February 2021, with thousands and thousands of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in desperate or already irreversible ruin. These discussions, and above all these concrete decisions and measures, should have taken place last year, when the problems were obvious and could be dealt with quickly, so there was political will to approve the CFP proposals at that time. But no, the answer was late and insufficient and the problems worsened and increased. Once again, we want to warn the unacceptable situation that the vast majority of these companies are living in, in which the support does not reach the ground and where the support lines are linked to a bureaucratic complication, a lack of information and even funding, leading to their early closure. The support scheme itself referred to in the proposed law now under discussion, i.e. the APOIAR programme in its various areas, has a legal framework, including Portaria No 271 - A / 2020 in its current draft, which needs to be revised and amended as soon as possible. The law in force provides that all undertakings which were constituted on 1 March 2020 may have access to public support, without discrimination due to the legal form of the business entity or the legal form adopted for its accounting. The law in force determines that even in situations of non-compliance with social security or the AT ( Tax Authority ) for tax obligations due after March 2020 access to financing is guaranteed under the condition of accession subsequent to the performance plan. If this is what the law in force determines, then the government cannot disregard the law by imposing easy restrictions on access to support, because that is what is at the regulatory level. This regulation needs to be amended and, more importantly, the practice and action of the government in this process must be changed so that it will be, once and for all, in a speedy and effective way to ensure support for the companies that it needs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP will certainly not put obstacles to the approval of the necessary mechanisms, in this case at the level of data processing, in order to implement the measures to support companies. The CFP submits a concrete proposal concerning the Government's proposed law to ensure that all lease contracts, including the oldest, are included in this support scheme; otherwise thousands of establishments in which this contract, because it is older, have not been notified to the AT but that AT is known through the so-called model 44 annual declaration. On the other hand, we must not fail to point out that the measures adopted to carry out support have to do with this, namely in order to carry out support, not in order to take advantage of the processes with other objectives. Requests for support motivated by the dramatic situations in which small entrepreneurs are located cannot be used against them. We still remember the situations in which entrepreneurs asked for the refund of the special payment on their own and had in response an inspection of the finances. It is essential that appropriate measures should be adopted not to aggravate or complicate but to respond in a concrete and effective and rapid manner to the problems of companies. This is the meaning of the CFP's proposal and intervention, but there is also the government's political will to ensure that the practice is consistent in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u135	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u136	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that we must start the debate on this bill in two words: time and preparation. This is precisely because it has been lacking in this initiative, which is a great irony in the last few days when we are discussing whether or not we need a plan for defining, whether or not we need to prepare things. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate arises because, in fact, a plan was also needed for the eventuality of a new confinement and what we have come to realize is that this plan simply did not exist. And there was no such way that we are today, after more than a month of confinement, discussing a income support plan, a plan that has already been announced last year and that could already have been guarded in the letter of last year's Budget, discussing in which ways the State services can have access to information from the tax administration to prove what people are asking for support. So a first objection in principle—and let's call things by names—is that this comes late and bad hours, which means that many people are going through serious difficulties because things don't come in time. Having said this and going to the top of the bill, in fact, what we are discussing here today is not the APOYAR Programme and is the APOYAR RENDAS programme, it is in the APOYAR RENDAS programme that the State services have to go to the tax administration database to seek information. I would like to make it clear: the tax administration now has a database which, from our point of view, can already be considered excessive, has a huge source of information about people and businesses and is not satisfied because it is increasingly asking for more and more. What we understand is this: the situation is exceptional and, therefore, we are neither here to hinder nor to hinder, so we will not vote against this initiative. Now, it is necessary to realize that this is completely exceptional and cannot make school this idea that any State service that so desires first part of a logic of distrust in relation to the values that people declare and then goes to tax administration consult. This must be absolutely exceptional and only acceptable because of this matter of time. Therefore, what the CDS presented was a proposal, which we hope can be approved, saying that the services will not freely consult this database, will have a confirmation or a negative response from the tax administration, so we have changed our proposal so that, in case there is a misunderstanding in the value of income, this can no longer mean a wait for people. So what we want is that this is fast and fast, but it is not a green way for all state services to have access to all information, which is very personal information, of people. in the same way, we also, in an amendment to our proposal, return paragraph 2 because we realized that it was relevant to the public, and we will also vote in favour of the proposal from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u137	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor for the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Public policies are simultaneously responding to three emergencies, health care, social and economic issues, and today we are debating the economic emergency in this plenary. Economics and health are compatible concepts and without solving the health problem we do not recover the economy. All the rest are false promises of illusion. The public health situation and the evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic in Portugal has obvious economic and social consequences. It is therefore up to the public authorities to mitigate the effects of this impact, understanding that the great is an enemy of the good and that there will always be consequences of this crisis. The estimated breakdown of GDP in 2020 was about EUR 15 billion. This year's support amounted to more than EUR 22, EUR 9 billion, of which more than EUR 3000 million was substantially lost. Since very early on, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic have done everything to ensure that the support comes to the economy and families and we are well in any international comparison. [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] The behaviour of our economy in 2020, with a product breakdown lower than expected by international institutions, demonstrates the resilience of our companies and the economy. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we wanted to give a word of encouragement and understanding for the sectors most affected by the crisis, such as restoration, hotels, trade, among other sectors. Micro and small businesses are the fundamental fabric of our economy and deserve our best attention. We need to put support in the economy to ensure business survival, job maintenance and prevent serious economic and social consequences. This crisis is also a multiplier of inequalities, inequalities that we have to fight. That is our obligation. These economic and social support — as the Government has already pointed out — must be done at any cost and will continue to reach families and businesses. In terms of support and public data, we are talking only about EUR 2000 million for exceptional measures, and the simplified layoff, which is a far-reaching measure, has reached around EUR 1000 million and is now paid 100 %. With regard to the APOIAR programme, we are talking about substantial support which, according to existing data, will benefit about 45,000 companies in a total of EUR 500 million. It is a support which, in this way, we should consider very expressive. We are debating today a bill aimed at sharing information between the Agency for Development and Cohesion and the Tax and Customs Authority, in order to consolidate the APOIAR Programme, so that it includes the APOIAR RENDAS programme, which is intended for the payment of non-individual income in sectors particularly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. This support for companies with invoice breaks of more than 25 % may reach 50 %, thus being a fair measure and a substantial amount of support lost. This measure, in addition to measures such as Layoff, allows coverage of the so-called 'fixed costs' of our companies. In our view, this interconnection between the services of the central State is very important, allowing us to say that it is always positive to share data between public institutions that frees the economic agent of this type of context costs, in particular in confirming data already in the possession of the central State. This sharing of information benefits the support applicant, facilitates the application process, accelerates and makes the whole process faster and protects privacy and data protection rights and is therefore a sharing of data that everyone benefits. We are also available to follow up on the various proposals that both the CDS and the PCP have brought to us in the field of expertise. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to work to monitor the situation of our small and medium-sized enterprises and our business fabric, understanding that the current situation will, of course, require the weighting of new support, in particular because of this new confinement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u139	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to answer only three very specific questions which have been raised by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to inform you that requests for early reimbursement of the PEC (special payment on account) have been made by electronic means. It ended on January 31st and today I received the information from the Tax Authority that we are in a position to start making payments already next week to all those who requested it. Secondly, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I would like to agree with the honourable Member that this proposal is absolutely exceptional. And it seems to me that the amendments proposed by the CDS also go in the right direction, to reinforce this same exceptionality. This is because we're talking here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not just procedural matters. No, sir. Members, we are in Parliament with this proposal because we are talking about guarantees, rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, including the confidentiality of their data, whether for tax or personal data. Mrs Márcia Passos, I have listened very carefully to your speech and I will say, with all due respect, Mrs Márcia Passos, that I will not return the adjective to you, but I will return a request for you to read Article 13(3) according to your intervention. o-B of Portaria n. 15 - B / 2021 and you will see, Mrs. Member, that what you said does not correspond to what is in the portaria.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u141	What about paragraph 1 of this article? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u142	But as you have said, Mrs Deputies, I will not return to you the adjective you did to the government, because I am convinced that this does not contribute to what we all agree with, which is to fight the pandemic as effectively as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u143	With no further interventions, you have the floor to close this debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Economics, John Neves. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are indeed living exceptional times and what, over the past year, has been possible to build, on the basis of firm resilience and state support, was a mini-mitigation of the economic impacts of a health process in which we are all aware that the impacts on businesses, people and the State would naturally have to exist. What was possible to do, on the industry's side, in the recovery process throughout the year is very significant. But we also have, of course, very affected sectors, such as restoration, cultural services, housing, tourism initiatives and, for them, the State has launched a series of initiatives and tools to mitigate social impacts throughout the past year. I refer not only to moratoriums, credit lines for microenterprises, but also to the end of the year, even before this phase of confinement that we live at the beginning of this year, the APOIAR Programme. It was possible to build this programme on the basis of information held by the State, simplifying the procedures, responding very quickly to the demands of the companies. From 25 November to today 50 000 applications have been submitted, 47 000 have been approved, 540 million euros are being processed and paid to companies. Therefore, it was possible to build a solution quickly, with simplicity and give a timely response to what are effectively the needs of companies. This is, of course, a programme aimed at the fixed costs of companies, together with the interventions on the simplified layoff side and the support of other kinds that have been built over the course of this time. It is therefore an express support for fixed costs of different kinds that companies have, in their diversity, at different rates, obviously in relation to different sectors, such costs that we are all aware of. Income support is an additional support. The Government's commitment was to build a solution during the first quarter of this year, and that is what we are proposing, of course, to realise, as evidence of the existence of a new porta and of this bill, which aims to guarantee the rights of tax secrecy, which, of course, must be safeguarded. But I would like to say clearly that in view of the economic impact of the pandemic, the Government will work to strengthen and extend the support of the APOIAR Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u145	We have therefore concluded this debate. of our agenda are also points five and six, with the respective assessment of the motion for a resolution No 19 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, signed in Manila on 7 August 2017, which will be voted on shortly in the voting period, and of draft resolution No 1011 / XIV / 2. a (Commission on European Affairs) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of voting under the work programme of the European Commission for 2021, which will also be voted on during the voting period. Since no time is given for discussion of these points, we have started our voting period. As mentioned earlier, we have more than enough quorum to vote. Let's start with the appreciation of four weighing voting projects, which gave entry to the table. The first is the Vote Project No. 470 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by PS ) — regretting the death of Luís Filipe Salgado Matos. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Luís Filipe Salgado Matos, antifascist militant and renowned specialist and researcher in the fields of social sciences, died on Monday, February 15, 2021. He always sought to articulate the academic research with the participant observation, he was a columnist in various media bodies, in the press and in the radio. Thinker and essayist leaves different written and published work in sociology, science and political philosophy, economics and international relations. He was arrested by PIDE ( International Police and State Defense) in 1965 during the student struggles in Lisbon. at that time, he was a member of the academic association of the School of Law of Lisbon ( 1965 ), member of d’ O Tempo and the Mode( 1960s ) and of the Seara Nova ( 70s ). Militant of the Socialist Left Movement ( MES ), has never gone away from a culture of civic participation within its vast and multifaceted academic, literary life. In the academic plan, he graduated in Law, in 1969, he obtained an in-depth degree in Comparative Analysis of Political Systems by the University of Paris I — Panthéon-Sorbonne, in 1979, and doctorate in Political Sociology, in 2000, by the University of Lisbon, where he would also do his aggregation. He was a professor and researcher at the Institute of Social Sciences of the University of Lisbon. Author of a remarkable biography on Cardinal Cerejeira, and a respected specialist in military history, as well as on the relationship and separation between the State and the Church, during his university career he was still a teacher at the Higher Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences, at the Higher Institute of Labour and Enterprise Sciences, at the New University of Lisbon and at the Portuguese Catholic University. in an equally filled professional and public service life, he served as Secretary of State of the Economy in the Transitional Government of Mozambique ( 1974 - 1975 ), director of the Journal of Commerce ( 1975 - 1976 ), president of the Portuguese Institute of Cinema ( 1983 - 1990 ) and of the Administration of the Teatro São Carlos ( 1990 - 1992 ). He incorporated the Administration of the Port of Lisbon ( 1992 - 1993 ) and was a consultant to the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio ( 2001 - 2006 ). Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Luís Salgado Matos, especially greeting its anti-fascist action, public service and academic work, and conveying his sympathies to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will now move on to the Vote Project No 474 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the PS ) — regretting the death of José Atalaya. I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last February 19th the master and composer José Atalaya. Born in Lisbon in 1927, José Atalaya would dedicate his life to the composition and musical dissemination, in a remarkable way, on the radio, on television and on numerous national stages. Influenced by Joly Braga Santos, he would be a disciple of Luís de Freitas Branco, with whom he would sediment his musical formation between 1947 and 1955. In 1955, his first work, taking inspiration from the Hands and Fruits of Eugénio de Andrade, would even be executed by the National Symphony Orchestra, under the master Pedro de Freitas Branco, brother of his master. His training would be enriched as a scholarship of the Gulbenkian Foundation, having had the opportunity to study with several references of European music of his time: Hans Swarowsky, Igor Markevitch or Piero Bellugi, his tutor in the formation of conductor. Later, he would also collaborate with Pietro Grossi, who understands the potential of computer use in composition and electronic music. After the death of Luís de Freitas Branco, José Atalaya temporarily withdrew from the composition, continuing a course of musicological research and orchestra review, returning to the composition more than a decade later, inspired by the pioneering work of Pierre Boulez. In 1951, he joined the National Emissora as a musical assistant, starting a outreach career that also went through the RTP, through programs such as Musical Quinzenário and Musical Semanário. His intervention in the national musical panorama is also marked by his founding role of Portuguese Music Youth in 1948 as the first director of the Experimental Group of Opera de Câmara and, from 1975 onwards, as artistic coordinator of three orchestras of the Portuguese Broadcasting Radio. He was also head of the Port Symphony Orchestra, Artistic Councillor of Lisbon, City of Music, creator of the Music in Dialogue initiative and founder of the Port Classic Orchestra. In 1998, with the support of the Fafe City Hall, he founded an Academy of Music in that city to which his name was given. along its long and rich musical outreach intervention, Atalaya was a committed advocate of the need to ‘break up the barrier between the public and the artist’ and ‘informalize the concerts’, seeking to extend the use to new audiences and capture the younger generations. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic gathered in plenary session, pays tribute to the legacy of Master José Atalaya and his role in Portuguese cultural and musical life over the last decades, and addresses his sympathies to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No. 475 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Carmen Dolores. I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On February 15th, at the age of 96, actress Carmen Dolores died. Carmen Dolores was one of the great Portuguese actresses, having noticed herself in theatre, cinema, radio and television. On the radio, where he began his career, he distinguished himself from claiming poetry and as an actress of radio theater. It was also for this time that, at the age of 21, Carmen Dolores joined the National Council of Portuguese Women, a feminist organization to defend women's social and political rights, which the New State regime would end in 1947. On television, he participated in several soap operas, such as People Banking or The Legend of the Garça. In the theater, Carmen Dolores debuted in 1945, in the Theatre of the Trinity, with Electra, the messenger of the gods by Jean Giraudoux. In 1951, he began working at the National Theatre D. Maria II, under the direction of Amélia Rey Colaço, where he participated in pieces like Frei Luís de Sousa, by Almeida Garrett. over the decades, it was still connected, among others, to the Popular National Theatre, as well as to the Modern Theatre of Lisbon, which helped to establish in 1961. She was also protagonist in several films of cinema, such as Love of Perdition, of Leitão de Barros, or The Ballada da Praia dos Dogs, of José Fonseca and Costa. Carmen Dolores has had a successful career of over 60 years. Remove-CL from the 81-year-old stage, with the Copenhagen play at the Open Theatre, staged by João Lourenço. The course of this remarkable actress was recognized by the public, as well as by several entities, having been awarded the Gold Medal of the City Hall of Lisbon, the Sophia Career Award of the Portuguese Academy of Cinema or the António Quadros Prize, of Theatre. Carmen Dolores was also distinguished as Grand-Officer of the Order of the Child D. Henrique, by the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio and in 2018 as Grand-Officer of the Order of Merit, by the President of the Republic Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, a distinction given in the Theatre of the Trinity, whose main hall today has, rightly, its name. The reactions to his death show the admiration and prestige he enjoyed, particularly among his professional peers, who highlight his human qualities, as well as the commitment to defend the professionals of the arts, having been one of the founders of the Artist's House. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Carmen Dolores, paying tribute to the actress and conveying to her family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u151	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] I transmit, on behalf of the House, our solidarity to family and friends here present. Finally, we have the Vote Project No. 476 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by PS ) — Regret for the death of José de Sampaio Lopes. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « José de Sampaio Lopes died last February 19th, 77 years old, victim of sudden illness. Natural Santar, council of them, where he was born on February 1, 1944, was in the Fundão who married and had two children. He graduated in law at the University of Coimbra, was a military officer at the School of Mafra, later serving in military service in Guinea. In the Fundão, he began his professional life in high school, teaching the discipline of Introduction to Politics, having practiced in this city the profession of lawyer. Since early on he had devoted himself to civic participation in the authentic life of his council, the Fundão, having been elected as a councilman in 1979 in the House of Fundão, who has led, as President of the Municipal Chamber, in 1987, in the interim elections, renewing his mandate with significant victories in 1989 and 1993. As an autoarch, he grew the admiration and affection of all. It was distinguished with the Gold Medal of the City of Fundão, within the framework of the 40 years of local power on 9 June 2016. For 30 years it served the public cause, being a reference of the local authority and contributing decisively to the development of this municipality. He was elected to the Assembly of the Republic in the VII legislature, by the district of Castelo Branco, on the list headed by Antonio Guterres, comrade and friend of the old, and in the VIII legislature, which began in 1999. In 1995 he was appointed Civil Governor of the district of Castelo Branco, from which he left, for once again to apply for the City Council of the Fundão, where he was elected councillor. He was also an administrator of the municipal company of Fundão Turismo from 2003 to 2014. Remarkable citizen, who for decades served the public cause, in the region and in the municipality he chose to live, is remembered as a humanist, for his civic and political intervention at the service of the Socialist Party and of the populations. He always sought, with his humor and sympathy, to have a close connection with people, who recognized his taste for culture and the connection to the region. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of José de Sampaio Lopes, and addresses his family and friends, his most sympathetic condolences, paying tribute to him. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u153	We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the other votes, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will announce the entry of an initiative. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, has entered the Bureau, and has been admitted, draft resolution No 1011 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on European Affairs ).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u155	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We shall then proceed with the other votes that we have to carry out. We begin with the general vote on the Bill No 72 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the framework law on public utility status. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] This initiative is down to 1. the Commission. We moved on to the supplementary script of votes and started by voting in general on Bill No 73 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Enables access to data by public entities for confirmation of access requirements to the APOIAR Programme. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] With this approval, in general, we can immediately turn to the speciality vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u156	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u157	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u158	Mr President, with the exception of Article 2 ( 1 ). I believe that everything else can be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u159	No, Mr. Deputies, there are obviously no conditions. We continue with this rhythm, because slowly it goes away.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u160	Of course, Mr President, this is not worth it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u161	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP amending Article 1. o Law No 73 / XIV / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL, votes against BE and abstentions from the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: Article 1 This Act enables the possibility of the Agency for Development and Cohesion, I.P. (Agence I.P.) to question the Tax and Customs Authority (AT) on data held in its possession for the purpose of verifying the specific requirements for access to the support measure ‘APOIAR RENDAS’ under the ‘APOIAR Programme’, which has been approved in Annex to Portaria No 271-A/2020 of 24 November and amended by Portaria No 15-B/2021 of 15 January.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u162	With the adoption of this amendment, the vote on Article 1. that of the bill was damaged. The vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 2 ( 1 ( a ) shall follow. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[(a) the existence of an existing lease contract, communicated to the AT or subject matter of annual reporting of receipts, and their essential elements for the allocation of support;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u163	The vote on Article 2 ( a ) shall also be adversely affected. o. Let us now vote on Article 2 ( 1 ( b ). the, contained in the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and IL abstentions.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the CDS-PP amending Article 2 ( 1 ) body. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL, votes against BE and abstentions from the NAP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[Article 2 1 — For the purpose of validating the support granted under the ‘APOIAR Programme’, including its measures, it is up to the AT, the Agency’s request, I.P., to provide information on compliance with the requirements for granting those support, in particular on the elements and values declared on the application, even third in the view of the application for its benefit, in particular the owner, regarding: (a) Existence of the existing lease agreement communicated to the AT and its essential elements for the award of the support; (b) Essential elements of the proof of the payment of income for the award of the support.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u164	This result prejudices the voting of the body of Article 2 ( 1 ). the, as stated in the bill. We now vote on Article 2 ( 2 ). the, contained in the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add Article 2 ( 3 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered BE and Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — At the request of the information relating to the fulfilment of the requirements for the grant of the support granted under the ‘APOIR Programme’, the Agency, I. P. shall instruct its request with the elements provided by the candidate for those support.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u165	We shall vote on a proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add Article 2 ( 4 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted as a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against BE.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — The information to be provided by the AT may only indicate whether or not a particular candidate meets the requirements for the grant of support, including the value of income, and cannot provide any other elements to the Agency, I.P.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u166	The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for an addendum to Article 2 ( 5 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL and abstentions of BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: 5 — The AT has a period of 5 days to provide the information requested by the Agency, I.P., after which it is considered that the requirements are met.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u167	We now vote on Article 2 ( 3 ). the, as contained in the bill. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL.]] Let us now vote on Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the withdrawal of BE.]] We shall vote on Article 2 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL.]] The vote on Article 2 ( 6 ) shall follow. o. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the Bill No 73 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Enables access to data by public entities for confirmation of access requirements to the APOIAR Programme. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u168	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u169	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u170	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group requires the waiver of the final wording and the time limit for the complaint against inaccuracies, if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if there is any objection. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, Secretary Duarte Pacheco points out that, as there are additions and amendments approved, the final wording will always have to exist. This is inevitable, because there are changes to be introduced and renumberings that have to be made, and therefore there must always be some final drafting work, which will be sought to be done quickly. There are no objections to the waiver of the time limit for filing complaints against inaccuracies, it is considered approved, as has been done on previous occasions. We shall then proceed with the vote, Mr President. Members, with the vote on draft resolution No 983 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Enlargement of the APOIAR RENDAS programme. With regard to this initiative, we shall vote separately on its six points, starting with the vote on point 1. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on point 2 of the draft resolution. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The vote on point 3 shall follow. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and PS abstentions.]] Let us now vote on point 4 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] The vote on point 5 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We are now voting on point 6 of the draft resolution. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PS and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution has been approved, with the exception of point 4, which has been rejected. Let us now proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 19 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, signed in Manila on 7 August 2017. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1011 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Adoption by the Assembly of the European initiatives considered as priority for scrutiny under the European Commission's 2021 Work Programme. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 846 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By the extraordinary linkage of special technical teachers. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 817 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to enhance the industrial heritage of the Vale do Ave, for which the CDS-PP requested a split vote by points. So let's vote separately the three points...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u172	Mr President, just vote separately on point (a) and then we can vote on the rest together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u173	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Let us then vote point (a) of draft resolution No 817 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends measures to enhance the industrial heritage of the Vale do Ave. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Let us now vote together on points (b) and (c) of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstained.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft resolution has had two points adopted, so I hope it will continue to make sense. It will certainly do otherwise they would not have been approved. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 894 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the adoption of transparency mechanisms within the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The proposing party called for a point-by-point vote, and the initiative has six points. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall vote on point 2 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The vote on point 3 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these three points all had the same vote, so we could have voted them together. Let us now vote on point 4 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]] The vote on point 5 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and BE abstention.]] We are now voting on point 6, and lastly on the same draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and IL and votes against the BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Mrs. Members, the six points of this draft resolution have been rejected. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 967 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — On the participation of national parliaments in the Conference on the Future of Europe. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u174	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u175	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u176	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 845 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the multiannual support of the Orchestra Generation project. This initiative was also the subject of a request by the PS to disaggregate the vote on points 1 and 3. We shall therefore vote jointly on points 1 and 3 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We are now voting on point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 850 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Promotion of mental health in context COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u178	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u179	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u180	Mr President, I would like to know if we could not vote together on all the draft resolutions on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if anyone has any objection to the joint vote on the draft resolutions on this subject. [[Pause.]] Since no one opposes us, then we will vote together, in general, on Resolution Projects Nos 850 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Promotion of mental health in context COVID-19, 861 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government develop a specific and urgent approach to mental health in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, 869 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Mental health response measures in Portugal, 879 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Strengthening and improving mental health policies in a health emergency context, 880 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Measures to combat mental health problems, taking into account the pandemic of COVID-19, 963 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — For a commitment to the mental health of new generations, 964 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By strengthening SNS responses in the area of mental health and 969 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of strategies for the prevention and strengthening of responses to mental health impacts. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention were adopted.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these draft resolutions that we have just adopted are going down to the Health Committee to try to find a final text that will then come to plenary. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 899 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Immediate transfer by the Ministry of Finance of own revenues of the ERC to the current amount of EUR 3 million. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 840 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government establish the national bicycle support programme in pre-school education. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] Let us now vote, also in general, on draft resolution No 972 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the timing, budgeting and implementation of measures promoting pedestrian and cycling active mobility. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and IL.]] Mrs. Members, these two draft resolutions that we have just adopted are down to 11. the Commission. We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 of 23 October amending the general waste management regime [ Parliamentary assessment No 35 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP and IL, votes against the PAN and abstentions from the PCP, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Health Committee, on draft resolutions Nos 622 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right to accompany pregnant women, 626 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By amending the guidance of the DGS in order to guarantee the right of pregnant women to accompany them in all obstetric services, 635 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By the follow-up of pregnant women during all stages of labor in the context of COVID-19 and 636 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Ensure the follow-up of pregnant women in pregnancy care and at all stages of delivery, even during the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We are now voting in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 248 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Guarantee a National Quality Health Service, 630 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to recover activity in primary health care, 641 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to regulate the functioning of primary health care and 656 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recovery and strengthening of primary health care activity. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolutions Nos 862 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the reformulation of risk assessment forms for situations of domestic violence, ensuring greater protection of victims and 922 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — by amending risk assessment sheets for situations of domestic violence. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 1 to 10 of the Journal of the Republic's Assembly, I Series, concerning the plenary meetings of this legislative session, held on 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 25 and 30 September 2020 and 1, 2 and 7 October 2020. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. We shall then vote on an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give an account of her opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Administrative Court of the Circle of Lisbon, Organic Unit 3, Case No. 1172 / 20.3BELSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies delivered an opinion to authorize Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves ( PS ) to present a statement as a witness within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u183	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has even more announcements to make. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u184	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I inform the House that Mrs Sara Madruga of Costa and Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group were present by video conference. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u187	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u188	Mr President, I just wanted to inform the Bureau that the PS Parliamentary Group will make a statement of vote on draft resolution No 894 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN).
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-25.u189	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary will meet again next Wednesday for 3 p.m. on the agenda for a debate with the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs on sectoral policy. At the end of the debate, there will be electoral votes. For today, that's all. I wish you all a very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members and other people who accompany us. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 55 minutes.]]
