ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the Authority, we will start our plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] of the first item on the agenda today is the joint assessment of Petition No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( João José Roque Batista Fael et al.) — Creation of the career of health assistant technician, of Law Projects No. 485 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates and regulates the career of health assistant technician and 568 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Defines the general principles regarding the exercise of the profession of health assistant technician, in general, and of Resolution Projects Nos 614 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a career as an auxiliary health technician and 686 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — replacement and regulation of the career of health assistant technician. To open the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate and thank the more than 6000 petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic and provided us with this debate. This is not the first time that a petition reaches the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the creation of the career as an auxiliary health technician, which shows the importance it has for the professionals of the National Health Service ( SNS ). The truth is that with this pandemic there was more than proven the importance that health professionals have for the country. This importance is not remunerated with words of circumstance with palms on the back without any consequences or with premiums that exclude more than they include; this importance is paid with working conditions, with careers themselves and with decent wages. The question is: has the government done this? Unfortunately, the answer is no, you haven't done anything about it! contrary to what the Prime Minister says, the government has raced a lot and the problem is that, in this race, those who are always missing are health professionals. The government has awarded contracts, opting for the promotion of four-month precarious contracts in the National Health Service, has raced in the awards, excluding the overwhelming majority of professionals and has raced in the careers of health professionals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the National Health Service currently work almost 30,000 professionals who do not have their own careers. They perform shifts, work nights and weekends, hygienic rooms, sterilize equipment, take care of the users, receiving the minimum wage or little more than that. With the pandemic, the work increased, there are more shifts to do, and the professionals were more exposed to risk, often depriving themselves of contact with the family and with the people closest to them. Some of these professionals were infected by COVID-19, always receiving the lowest salary, always without a career. They are the operational assistants to whom the Government refuses the career that should be theirs, i.e. the career as an auxiliary health technician. The creation of this career—which the Left Block proposes again and brings to debate—is a matter of justice, is a legal obligation and is a way to strengthen the National Health Service. It is a question of justice because if these workers are required to perform specific and differentiated functions, then they must have a career that recognizes this differentiation of functions. If these workers are absolutely essential for the functioning of operating blocks, nurses, health centres, then their wages must be consistent with the importance of their work. This is a legal obligation, because this is the result of the new basic law, which is clear on the subject: health assistant technicians are health professionals and health professionals at the National Health Service have the right to their own career. The law exists and must be fulfilled! This is a way to strengthen the SNS, because without career and with low wages it is increasingly difficult to capture and fix professionals who earn more and work less in any supermarket. And without health professionals, as you should know, there is no National Health Service. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Left Block proposes and proposes again is the following: justice, compliance with the basic law, strengthening the National Health Service. Those who have approved the Health Bases Law have no reason, no justification, to not approve this career, unless they have any intention of implementing the basics law that they have approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u3	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u4	Those who have not approved the Health Bases Act, if they are consistent with the words they are saying whenever these professionals go to the Assembly of the Republic through petitions or other instruments, then they can only vote in favour of this bill of the Left Block for the creation of the career of health assistant technician. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u5	The Parliamentary Group of the NAP now has the floor. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, you may speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss petition No. 1 of the XIV Legislation. We would like not only to greet the petitioners but also to thank their resilience for bringing this petition back to the Assembly of the Republic, insisting on the replacement of justice in the face of a situation that has been dragging 12 years. In the process of reviewing the linkage, career and remuneration schemes, the category of medical action auxiliary was included in the general careers of the State with the name of operational assistant, thus losing the autonomy they had. In 2008 the Government chose to equate medical action assistants with other professionals in the State sector without specialization. This situation has conditioned health assistant technicians to a category of general character, resulting in scenarios of indefinition in the designation of their tasks and competences thus in the obligations, leaving these classifications and the distribution of functions to the free will of the heads. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the functional content of an auxiliary health technician in nothing is consistent with the functional content of the operational assistants, with which they have been equated, because they do not have the training and qualification necessary for the performance of the functions assigned to the health assistant technicians. In fact, the medical action auxiliaries in 2008 saw them withdraw their career, which was never answered again. No government has ever corrected this injustice. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we only have the capacity for a journey of guided imagination and empathy to put ourselves in the place of these professionals who are a fundamental pillar of public health policies! The former medical action auxiliaries rightly fight for the replacement of a career as health care assistants. In 2010, the Government created the Professional Course of Health Assistant Technique but there is no career to follow up on it, i.e., in addition to taking up a career, it decided to create false illusions in our young people, offering them training for a profession that is not regulated. Like the other health professionals, they have daily the constraints, obligations and risks of all other health professionals to whom specialization and training are required, but they lack career regulation, with a view to clarifying their technical skills, the structure of their career and the functions performed, which is fundamental in dignity and professional valorization. We must not forget ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that these professionals give up 20% of our National Health Service. It is these professionals who daily perform basic functions with patients — hygiene, food and other basic care for respect for human dignity. The real recognition that we can give these professionals is that of clarifying and defining the general principles relating to the professional exercise of health assistant technicians. With this draft law we bring forward, we propose that the Government should proceed with the urgent regulation of this profession and the definition of the principles of the professional exercise of this career.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u7	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the PCP Parliamentary Group also wants to address compliance with the petitioners who brought the issue of the creation of the career of health assistant technician to the Assembly of the Republic once again. They also allow us to health care for all these workers for their commitment and dedication. Every day, these professionals are in health centres and hospitals, although they do not have a specific career and are not dignified in terms of their rights, to provide the necessary health care to all users and patients. in this phase of fighting the pandemic, they revealed that they are indispensable and also necessary and seen how important their professional performance is within the National Health Service. With the approval of Law No. 12 -A / 2008 of 27 February, on the arrangements for binding, career and remuneration of employees of the Public Administration, the then medical action assistants saw their career destroyed and were integrated into the general career of operational assistant. Integration into this general career, in addition to meaning the destruction of a specific career that took into account its professional performance and specificities, led to a devaluation in terms of the rights of these workers and functional content, not corresponding to the specific functions required by these workers in the public health services of the National Health Service. According to the latest social balance sheet of the Ministry of Health, which is published and is public, there are 26,740 operational assistants, i.e. we are talking about about about 20% of the total number of workers of the Ministry of Health. The profession of health assistant technician consists of the national catalogue of professions, but workers who perform the functions of health assistant technician in the units of the SNS today are in the career of operational assistant. These workers provide training to new health assistants, although they do not have a specific career in Public Administration. Therefore, even if they do not have a career, we are talking about a group of workers whose reality reveals that there is indeed this need, because they perform these functions, and there is no justification for not having a specific career, that is, the career of health assistant technician. More than a decade ago, workers have been fighting for the career of health assistant technician, and this is the solution that will enable them to give the framework to the functions currently exercised by these workers, considering their specificities. The creation of the career of health assistant technician, in addition to being the most elementary justice for these workers, contributes to their valorization and also to the improvement of the care provided in the National Health Service. We understand that the valorization and strengthening of the National Health Service do not go through devalued functional content and low wages. Above all, these workers saw themselves without any prospect of progress, having been stolen — stolen is the right word — the points that enabled this same progression, which, in our view, is truly unjustifiable and unacceptable. The appreciation and strengthening of the National Health Service are due to the appreciation of careers and, in this case, to the creation of the career of health assistant technician. We understand that replacement, valorization and career creation are matters of collective bargaining with trade union organisations. For this reason, the CFP, in this debate, brings up a legislative initiative that proposes that the Government initiate and develop collective bargaining processes with trade union organisations for the creation of a career as an auxiliary health technician, considering the specificities of the functions performed, ensuring the valorization of career, progression and consequent remunerative translation. Those who claim to defend health workers and those who say that there is a need for their appreciation can only follow this initiative of the CFP because if we want to effectively value workers in the field of health, if we really want these workers to be, from the point of view of their career, dignified and valued, it is necessary to take the step towards the creation of the career of health assistant technician.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u9	I have the floor by the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through Law No. 12 -A / 2008, the diploma that came to establish the schemes for linking careers and remuneration of workers who perform public functions, the category of medical action assistant, which existed more than 40 years ago, was extinct, and these workers who exercised functions in the National Health Service were integrated into the career of operational assistant. Without much effort, we realize that this law represented a great devaluation of public administration workers and a brutal attack on their rights. On the other hand, Portaria No. 1041 / 2010 has created the professional course as an assistant health technician and approved the respective curriculum. However, we are in 2021 and professionals continue to be operational assistants, even though they have the skills of health assistant technicians. It is also mentioned that the National Qualifications Catalogue includes that of an auxiliary health technician, determining that the health assistant technician is the professional « who assists in the provision of health care to users, in the collection and transport of biological samples, in the cleaning, hygiene and transport of clothing, materials and equipment, in the cleaning and hygiene of spaces and in the logistical and administrative support of the different health units and services under the guidance of health professionals». Now in the National Health Service there are about 28 000 operational assistants, representing this professional category of about 20 % of the staff that performs functions there. It should be remembered that they are essential workers for their proper functioning, because they perform absolutely essential tasks, without which, in fact, it would not be possible to provide health care. But if we add to these professionals the social sector and the private sector, we are talking, after all, about 150 000 professionals. That is, these workers, even without a specific career that values them, are present every day in the various health units, with functions without which it was impossible to make the health sector work and give the answer that users need and that they have right. These professionals are not recognised for their specific functions because, in fact, the law has prevented career progressions and omits functional competences and content, which, when not properly defined, may still lead to conflicts between professionals and jeopardise the quality of the services provided. Thus, we can state that the current career as an operational assistant is far from responding to the specificities of the functions and responsibilities that are required of the workers, because, as we know, the health sector ends up characterized by its specificity and multidisciplinaryity. It should also be noted that this matter has already originated two petitions addressed to the Assembly of the Republic. One of them, in fact, has motivated the agenda of the discussion we are now making. These petitions required exactly the replacement and regulation of this category and professional career, as we speak of health professionals and, as such, must have a career that recognizes the specificity of their work. The Greens therefore consider it imperative to recognize and value the importance of these professionals. This is due to the existence of a career of its own, which, in fact, has already existed and has been extinct, which has represented a great mistake which is now important to reverse. That is exactly the meaning of the legislative initiative presented by the Greens and which, in our view, comes to respond to the demands of the petitioners, who, on behalf of the Greens, take advantage of them to greet. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u11	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting about 6500 petitioners of this petition, who, as it has been said, call for the creation of the career of health assistant technician. In this petition there are about 30 000 professionals in the SNS who would fit in this category and also say that they constitute the third labour force in the SNS. In short, they say that at the end of 2008 they were medical action assistants and that later in 2009 — and I quote — « agreed» as operational assistants. They add that in 2010, the category of health auxiliary technician was created through portaria, but that in 2019 and for the majority of reasons also in 2021, continue to be operational assistants, although with skills and objectives of health auxiliary technicians. In the text of the petition, they present 20 claims, which are very diverse and mix various matters that cannot be dealt with together. For example, in paragraphs 1 and 11 ask for the creation and regulation of careers; in paragraph 13 they ask that the careers be considered to be worn out quickly and subject to specific retirement conditions; in paragraphs 2 and 7 they require the creation of a national day. Several of these claims are not even within the competence of Parliament, such as paragraph 2, which calls for the creation of an association of health assistant technicians and paragraph 8, which aims to provide the meeting of these same professionals. Having said this, and in any case, the CDS has always recognized the relevance of these technicians in providing health care to users. They are professionals who, as has been said, deal daily with thousands of users. Their professionalism and humanization are decisive in the care activity. They are also — I think it has not been mentioned yet — responsible for the fight against hospital infections, which are still a relevant problem with which Portugal is debating. We therefore believe that the claim to regulate the profession is critical, necessary and only to be late. It is up to the Government to do so and the Government has fled to it, although, in the annex to the petition sent to us, it is a letter from Prime Minister António Costa, dated 2015, which states: « We consider it necessary to regulate the contexts of training and progress of the categories concerned ». These professionals — I think we all agree on this — are essential to the proper functioning of health units, be they hospital, primary health care or continuous or palliative care. Therefore, they deserve and have all respect for the CDS. Let us maintain the position we have had so far: the career must be created, it must be regulated, but this process must be carried out by the government, because collective bargaining between workers'organisations and the government is necessary. We duly greet the health assistant technicians and thank, of course, at this specific moment of the pandemic as in all other days, their irreplaceable and permanent presence in our health units. It is up to the Government to make this regulation and that is why we will vote in favour of the draft resolutions of the CFP and the Greens, which they recommend exactly this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u13	Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, is included for an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the person of the first petitioner, who is present here, Mr. João Fael, I respect the other 6577 petitioners of the public petition calling for the creation of the career of health assistant technician. What we are discussing today, the subject that motivates this petition, is the reflection of another sad inheritance of socialist governance. It was in 2008, with the government led by José Socrates, that the then appointed medical action assistants, with a career of over 40 years, became operational assistants. I remember, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD voted against the bill that gave rise to this amendment. I also remember that this amendment was not just an amendment to the professional designation. It was a lot more than that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a lot more than that! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] It was to ignore the differentiated role these professionals play in the SNS and to forget that they provide an essential support service to patients and other health professionals. They are authentic caregivers of people, help in the provision of hygiene and comfort care, care to be provided to patients before and after surgery, food, hydration, transfer of patients and so many other tasks. The government, in 2008, forgot all this and forgot — imagine! — all European and national guidelines aimed at the recognition of the qualifications and skills of these professionals. The World Health Organization expressly refers to something that the government also forgets and ignores: it is health professionals everyone who seeks to improve people's health. No one has any doubts, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, these professionals are doing exactly that! Directive 2013 / 55 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council has simplified the rules to enable these health professionals and other regulated professions to exercise their profession in other countries of the European Union. However, not having the profession created in Portugal disadvantages these professionals in access to it, in the European area. In 2019, having passed the new Health Bases Act, we see that the government does not comply with the law it created itself, with the support of the other left parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u16	This law states: “All health professionals working in the SNS have the right to a professional career that recognizes their differentiation in the area of health.” And what do we see? Oh, my God! We see the government violating the Health Bases Act itself, continuing without creating this professional career and without repositioning those who in 2008 ceased to be medical action assistants and agreed as operational assistants. But there's more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. In 2010, after completing this profession, the Government — plus a relic of the Government of José Socrates — created the professional course of health assistant technician, aiming at their professional exit, as read in Article 1. the Portaria No 1041 / 2010. What kind of professional exit? Oh, my God! It created the course, created its curriculum and its inherent certification and, since then and until today, there are several institutions, both public and private, that minister this course. We ask: for what? Oh, my God! For a profession that does not exist in Portugal? Oh, my God! That's, at least, ironic! They invest in training, they channel material and human resources, they specialize people to be health assistants, they finish the course, they have the diploma, but they do not have jobs as such. They may be anything, but they cannot exercise the profession for which they have studied, which is that of health assistant technicians. It is regrettable that this matter must come to this House when the same is the responsibility of the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u17	Today they vote in favour and the matter is settled!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u18	... just as the government is responsible for regulating the career that has been created. If, as far as career creation is concerned, this House can play a decisive role, it does not seem to us to be able to apply to its functional content. But these professionals are not lacking and will not lack the courage to force the government to do what is due it. And what's due, sirs. Members, it is, above all, respect for those who work every day for health in Portugal. Therefore, the dignity of these health professionals will naturally have our support. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u19	Mr Alexandra Tavares de Moura has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here is another debate about the careers of health professionals, their roles and their role, of course we cannot fail to greet all health professionals without exception, in the tenth month after the declaration of the pandemic. We greet health professionals, as well as professionals in education, safety, civil protection, urban hygiene and all those who have ensured essential services for the proper functioning of the State. I also congratulate the 6500 petitioners who bring us, once again, this issue, dragging with this petition two bills of law, the PAN and the Left Block, and two draft resolutions, the PCP and the ENP. I remind this House that this is a topic on which Parliament has already spoken and I remember that it was the Government of the Socialist Party that stood next to nursing professionals and senior diagnostic technicians, finding new ways in legislation to respond to the wishes of these professionals. In other words, it was always with the Socialist Party that health professionals saw their recognized claims. I'm saying this for what purpose? I say this, therefore, it is important to clarify the reason why it led to the creation of general public administration careers in order to make this debate clear, transparent and noiseless. Until the mid-1980s, the state apparatus had many scraps of what was the New State of Public Administration. It was at the end of the 1980s that the change of the wage system was promoted, which represented a significant advance, although, at this time, it was not accompanied by other instruments which were later introduced. Subsequently, the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 95 / 2003 opened the door to a study on Public Administration. The aim was to promote a culture of evaluation, of responsibility, of the State, ensuring the protection and guarantee of citizens' rights and the promotion of equal opportunities and equality before the law. It was also in 2008 with the Socialist Party that a new reform of the Public Administration was carried out, ensuring that it was modernised and safeguarded the country's growth. This framework does not justify the creation of careers, but such an argument about the difficult moment we are living in also does not justify the creation of careers. The framework is therefore necessary to make us understand the path that is being traced. And when we talk about careers, we talk about all of them, we talk about the need to ensure the revision and adequacy of each of the careers in a cross-sectional logic. This is not a sectoral issue, it is a global issue and, as we all know, approved in the Government Programme here in this House. But in this discussion we can never ignore what happened between 2012 and 2015 : the total public administration fraud. So today, the discussion is still so difficult, because there is still a way to go,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u21	Solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u22	...in spite of all the measures that, with the left parliament, we will return to the previous Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] to PSD I remember that in 2014 the General Law on Public Works, produced by you, could have changed what they say is wrong. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u23	Change you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u24	Therefore, we do not accept the discourse that the Socialist Party does not respect, disregard or devalue health professionals or other professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u25	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u26	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for this Parliamentary Group, the question is very clear: all workers in public service are absolutely necessary to ensure the social state. All must be treated equally.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u27	Right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u28	We believe that this is a necessary discussion and therefore, as we have already said in the past, we want to participate and contribute to a cross-cutting, safe and conscious reflection of all the impacts of career development in our Public Administration and to contribute to promoting and supporting the necessary changes. To conclude, we remember that the proposed laws brought here are the organic competence of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u29	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u30	We abstain from this in the draft resolution of the ENP, this being the clear sign that this parliamentary group gives for the necessary appreciation of the careers of the Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u31	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u32	Mr. President and Mr. Members: It is only to make a reference to the speech of the PSD Member, because the honourable Member has told the truth but has not said everything. In fact, it was a PS government that in 2008 extinguished the medical action aid category, which existed more than 40 years ago. But the honourable Member did not say everything, she said that in fact it was the PS Government that, in 2008, ended the career but that the PSD did not return it, during the four years in which, in the meantime, it was the government. In any case, Mrs Deputies, by the tone of her speech, it seems that this will be the problem that will be solved and we will wait for the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u33	I have the floor for a final speech by Mr Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Alexandra Tavares Moura : She said that it is not the current pandemic situation that justifies the creation of careers, but the basic law yes. The basic law is clear: there must be a career for each professional who is in the National Health Service. These professionals don't have their own career. Is the honourable Member saying that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group voted in favour of a basic law which it did not intend to comply with? Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u35	I think so. I'm almost sure it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u36	It is that the law is clear; if you do not want to comply, say. It's as simple as that. It is that if it is to comply with that basic law, then there must be a career for these professionals, Mrs. I even remind you of Marta Temido’s words — certainly she knows — in 2018, and I quote: “We don’t even have a specific career for the helpers. We are very afraid of special careers and then we end up being more inefficient than we would like. Do not keep on seeking. ” Madam Member, don't be afraid of special careers and don't make SNS more inefficient than we would like. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u37	We have thus reached the end of the debate on our first item on the agenda. We will move on to the second point, together with the assessment of Petition No. 24 / XIV / 1. a (António Amable Caldeira Fradique et al.) — Not to violence against health professionals, of Resolution Projects Nos 610 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Measures to combat violence against health professionals and 617 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a plan to prevent violence against health professionals at the workplace and, in general, of the Bill No 604 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Type of public crime for assaults committed against any public official, in the performance of his or her duties, irrespective of his or her activity and worsening of the criminal frameworks provided for for all conduct of physical integrity offence. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the petitioners who bring this very important matter to the Assembly of the Republic and start by saying, as it is obvious, that we can only repudiate all and any act of violence against any health professional, whether it is an act of physical violence, whether it is an act of verbal violence, moral harassment, whatever it may be, about doctors, nurses or auxiliary technicians, about all health professionals. We know that since 2006 the Directorate-General for Health has enabled a notification system so that professionals can report acts of violence that they are victims and there has also been an observatory that will account for these same notifications since that year. Indeed, in 2019, for example, more than 1300 were the notifications entered in this system. Indeed, 1300 — or more than 1300 — reports of aggression on health professionals are something that is inadmissible and unjustifiable. The question then arises is what to do. Finally, an assault is already a punishable act by law and what we want is, exactly, to prevent more than to act when the fact is already finished. That is why the proposals that we bring to the debate, and which we recommend, of course, that they be implemented, are proposals that are very active in preventing these acts, because that is what we think is fundamental. What are those proposals? That plans and programmes for security and violence prevention be created in all institutions of the National Health Service. We know that there are several institutions that do not have this plan. At the time this issue was publicly raised, the Health Commission had the opportunity to hold hearings to a number of entities on the topic of violence against health professionals. And this has been said to us, i.e. that several institutions do not have these prevention plans, minimization of socio-occupational risks, etc. And so you have to. This should be an obligation of all institutions of the National Health Service. Then, more important than that is that these plans are not just a role that is made to fulfil a proforma and then is put in the drawer. These plans must be implemented. Therefore, what we propose is that health professionals and their own users be involved in the development of these plans and, more importantly, be involved in monitoring and monitoring the implementation of concrete measures. It is very important that all the institutions of the National Health Service have health professionals responsible for monitoring the implementation of these measures, so that this is not just a report that is made, to show that it has, but that it then has no effect. We also propose that in the institutions of the National Health Service health and safety committees be set up at work, which, once again — and sometimes surprisingly — many institutions continue to fail to function. So you have to have these committees working. We also propose something that we have already proposed in the past but which seems to us to be the most basic justice, and that we will continue to propose until it is approved, i.e., that a status of risk and penosity be created for all health professionals working in the National Health Service. Very important too, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to strengthen the number of professionals and make an investment, which is necessary, which is still necessary to do — perhaps now more necessary than ever — at the facilities of the National Health Service. It is that we cannot ignore the users and their companions who, in complicated situations, of distress, if they do not have professionals who give them information, if they do not have enough professionals to follow up and must be done — both the user and the companion — can also generate situations of violence and aggression. And it is good that this situation is not ignored and that this investment is made, both in professionals and in facilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u39	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet and greet the more than 7700 subscribers who have signed the petition. Certainly, all health professionals see the need to combat this scourge, which is not new and has become worse. Therefore, urgent measures are needed to prevent and prevent violence against health professionals, in order to effectively reduce physical and psychological aggression to which they are subject at their workplaces. May I have the ladies. Petitioners referring to the hearing held on 6 March 2020. in this hearing, the first subscribers of the petition stated clearly that this petition was intended to alert to the deficiencies of the National Health Service, to alert to the lack of conditions of health professionals in their respective workplaces, to the lack of time to assist and care for the patients, for the long waiting periods of these, not only in the care of the consultations, but also in the conduct of examinations; they also pointed to the worsening economic conditions of the users, many with dramatic human situations, in a state of general exhaustion which is structural and which seems to motivate these acts. Mrs. Members, these alerts, not contained in the petition text, point to important dimensions and causes of violence against health professionals that need to be combated. Health professionals are often unfairly the target of discontent with the difficulties of responding to health services. Health professionals are often responsible for the existence of services rupture situations that lead to high waiting times and degradation of the quality of health care, when in reality this responsibility is not theirs. In fact, health professionals are the first to fight and require better conditions for the exercise of their activity with high quality standards. The first ones responsible for the risk to which health professionals are exposed are the successive governments that have promoted the de-investment in the National Health Service, beginning with the poor human resources allocation, the degradation of equipment and buildings, the degradation of responses, the lack of coordination between the various services and levels of care, the absence of safety and health conditions at the workplace, all dimensions leading to situations where those in the front line — as they have always been — are the easy targets of misunderstanding and high levels of anxiety that arise in some users and resulting in deplorable situations of physical and verbal violence, resulting from aggressive behaviors that we violently reject. Mr. President and Mr. Members, this reality cannot be ignored and it is aware that the CFP presents a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the adoption of a plan to prevent violence against health professionals at work. We must call on the Government to take measures to protect health professionals at their workplaces. We understand that everything must be done to create all the conditions that guarantee the provision of health care and quality to all users. Measures such as the development of occupational safety and health plans, which integrate the prevention of violence against health professionals and the implementation of health and health services at work in all health institutions; the provision of health professionals' services in appropriate and safe numbers, in order to reduce waiting times; the availability, in the waiting rooms, of health professionals specifically dedicated to information, clarification and reduction of the anxiety of users and family members to wait for care; investment in health care strategies and safety mechanisms, such as the provision of flight circuits, emergency buttons and security team reinforcement; the strengthening of security conditions in potential conflict services or with a history of violence that justify it, such as hospital emergency services; and the specialized monitoring of health professionals with physical and psychological attacks. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the best way to combat violence, whether about health professionals or any other worker, is to implement measures that involve its various dimensions, such as in the plans of the organization of the institutions and care provided, as well as in awareness-raising and communication. Mrs. Members, the CFP affirms its commitment to pursue the ways in which it can compete to combat and prevent it and, above all, to advance the prevention of violence against health professionals. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u41	For an intervention you now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by greeting more than 7700 petitioners, who are alerted to the fact that health professionals are, in the exercise of their duties, daily exposed to situations of physical and verbal violence and aggressive behavior by some users. The motion for a petition today — “No to violence against health professionals” — calls for rapid responses in order to ensure safe working contexts and genuine protection of the physical and psychological integrity of these professionals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, during the first three months of the year 2020, approximately 500 attacks were reported in public and private health services, which corresponded to half of the cases recorded in the previous year. In addition to physical and psychological damage, we talk about scenarios of insecurity in the context of work, in added stress, with consequences in the relationship of trust between health professionals and users or their companions. But we know well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this phenomenon is associated with factors such as the high waiting time of users, the lack of information available and the lack of human resources in health. In the understanding of the NAP, the response to these problems clearly passes through investment in health. Unfortunately, we continue to see a lack of political will for the salary review of health professionals, the lack of career attractiveness for these same professionals, the obstacles to the mobility of doctors, the structural deficiencies in proximity health units and the drag of competitions over time. All these aspects inevitably lead to a vicious circle of problems with no response to sight. Violence prevents public policies of prevention, education and investment in responses and problem solving. We will therefore follow the recommendations of the CFP and BE. However, it is important that the government does not realize that everything is all right. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are going through a very difficult time in our health contexts, and the state has a duty to ensure the well-being of its professionals. Ignoring cases of violence against these health professionals is the same as normalizing them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u43	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and gratefully thanking them for the efforts of all health professionals, who are, in fact, the last to deserve disregard and ill-treatment, especially by those who care for them. It is important to begin by saying that these situations are often a result of the discontent that the poor response of health services generates. Long waiting times, facilities without adequate conditions and unhumanized care, all questions repeatedly identified and all issues that would be resolved with the systematic resource to the resources of the public, private and social sectors. The guarantee of access to universal health care requires the State to finance, but does not require the State to provide such services. Allowing the differentiated provision of health care also allows the free choice of people and the reduction of situations that promote violence. This is the model that works. It works, for example, in performing the COVID tests, where no complaints of delay are heard. If it works, the model is extended to vaccination, consultations and surgeries. But they also need short-term solutions to prevent violence against these professionals. For this reason, the Liberal Initiative defends and accompanies a set of measures that are discussed here today, ranging from violence prevention plans, legal and psychological support to victims, the physical reconfiguration of the consultants and better information to users of the conditions of care, as well as a more serious work with those responsible for the security forces to adapt the effects to the risks of each specific situation. This is a function in which liberals actually want a stronger state.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u45	Would you like to conclude, Mr President,
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u46	They want a stronger state, Mr President, to defend those who do so much to help their fellow man.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u47	Mr Cloádia Bento of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All acts of violence against health professionals are condemned and are absolutely unacceptable. Today, we are discussing a petition signed by more than 8000 citizens, who have already taken advantage of to greet, as a Member of Parliament and a doctor, which says "no to violence against health professionals". In addition, the draft resolutions of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block are also under discussion about this issue, and the draft laws of the Arrival, about the typification of the public crime for the aggressions committed against any public official. Violence against professionals is not a new reality, but it has worsened substantially in recent times. On average, four professionals are assaulted daily. This phenomenon may find its causes not only in the degradation of the responses of the National Health Service, but also in the lack of citizenship of some citizens and in a feeling of impunity of those who do not respect the neighbor. We all recognize and understand the natural anxiety that often accompanies people who go to health services, whether they are public or private, due to the high waiting times, delays and markings of health acts, whether these consultations, treatments, examinations or even surgeries, and to the very severity of the clinical situation in which users sometimes find themselves. But on the other hand, we cannot ignore the enormous pressure that falls on health professionals, a pressure that has worsened particularly in the last year, in the pandemic context in which we live. According to data from the Directorate-General of Health, the number of attacks against health professionals more than doubled between 2017 and 2019, from about 590 to 1400 cases respectively. The main victims of violence are nurses, with approximately half of the cases, followed by doctors, with one third, and finally technical assistants, with 12%. Since its establishment in 2006 until December 31, 2019, 5611 cases of violence against health professionals have been reported. The violence carried out is in the form of moral harassment in 53% of cases of verbal violence, in 25%, and in 13% of cases even physical assault occurred. In January 2020, a monocentric study conducted in a public hospital in Lisbon, between April and May 2018, on violence at the workplace in health institutions was published in the Ata Médica Portuguesa. In brief, 41 cases of violence were identified, most of which were verbal, but in 14 cases physical aggression occurred. The main reasons identified for these attacks were the long waiting times and the insolence of patients and companions for professionals. However, only 23 % of the professionals subject to aggression have reported the incident, which may result in underreporting of cases of violence at the national level. For the Social Democratic Party, it is essential to reflect on violence in the various contexts, and not only in the perspective of prevention, but ensuring, in the event of its occurrence, an effective, speedy and adjusted response. The Ministry of Health has an obligation to ensure the safety of its health professionals and to return to the professionals and users of the National Health Service a national service with confidence, safety and quality. It is true that, following a serious succession of cases of violence that occurred during the year 2019 against the professionals of the National Health Service, the Ministry of Health published an Action Plan for the Prevention of Violence in the Health Sector. In the view of the PSD, this was a very positive initiative. However, the same focus is essentially on prevention and neglecting the fight against violence, not providing for equally concrete measures to deter and contain the same violence, which are fundamental aspects in combating violence against professionals. In addition, there is an urgent need for more assertive intervention by the judicial authorities as well as the implementation of effective security measures. Almost one year since the adoption of that plan, it is true that, living in the country a particularly difficult context due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is important to evaluate the percentage of implementation of that plan and what has been the evolution and impact of these measures in combating violence against health professionals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u49	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I would like to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition and who, through this important instrument of our democracy, who want to be involved, bring us to discuss such an important subject as that of the need to seek solutions to combat, with all firmness, violence against health professionals. In fact, as the petitioners refer to, in the exercise of their duties and therefore in their workplaces, health professionals are exposed daily to situations of physical and verbal violence, resulting from aggressive behavior or attitudes by some users. But the most serious is that these situations have a tendency that points to worrying growth, some of them even reported by the press. In fact, looking at the available data from the Directorate-General for Health itself, we easily see this trend. If not, we see : in 2017, nearly 600 attacks were reported against health professionals ; in 2018, this number rose to about 1000 ; in 2019, these attacks reached 1355. Still closely following data from the Directorate-General of Health, we realized that the health professionals most affected by these behaviors are nurses and then doctors, technical assistants and operational assistants. Now, in the face of totally unqualified, unjustifiable and unacceptable behaviors or situations, the Greens consider it imperative to take a set of measures that can ensure adequate responses, capable of avoiding violence against health professionals at their workplaces. These answers should, in our understanding, include two dimensions. On the one hand, through awareness-raising campaigns, through the development of occupational safety and health plans and prevention of violence in all health institutions, but also through the establishment and establishment of health and safety committees at work in all health institutions. On the other hand, these answers have to be addressed to the reasons that are usually at the origin of these behaviors. In fact, health professionals often end up being unduly responsible for the difficulties of responding to health services, either by waiting times, or by the fragility of the quality of the health care provided, when professionals have no responsibility for disinvestment in the National Health Service. Therefore, if we want to attack evil by the root, these answers also have to go through the strengthening of health professionals and investment in technical means at the level of the SNS. In conclusion, I must say that we accompany the concerns of the petitioners and that we will vote in favour of the legislative initiatives that are also under discussion and that, in our view, they will respond to the problems identified by the petition, in particular, and above all, the draft resolutions of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u51	Mrs Cláudia Santos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the four initiatives that we have the debate, the first being the petition 'No to violence against health professionals' — and we begin by greeting the petitioners, stressing the goodness of their purpose', only three are really related to the protection of health professionals, namely, the petition and the draft resolutions of the Left Block and the Communist Party. On the contrary, Bill No. 604 / XIV / 2. the, of arrive, does not really relate to health professionals and their protection. Let's start with Bill No. 604 / XIV / 2. a, from arrive, following the principle that, if we start with the worst, we will leave the best for the end. This project of the Arrival aims to aggravate the penalties of crimes against physical integrity and to make public all crimes committed against public officials in the performance of their duties. On the worsening of the penalties, it is more than the same: it is not proved necessary nor is it shown that it could come to be useful. Very emphatically, on this, the opinion of the Advocates' Order states that, and I will quote: "We do not see any need for a worsening of the penalty measure". It's just more criminal populism, but nothing new, as long as there are projects in question of arrive in criminal matters. Already about the intention to make public all crimes committed against public officials, which is the intention of this bill of arrival, there is more to say. In the criminal law of a State of democratic law, persons who commit crimes must be punished on the basis of what they have done and not on the basis of the characteristics of their victims. It is true that there are special cases in which the circumstances of the victim may be self-relevance: in specific crimes and as long as the agent's guilt is always weighed. But they're special cases. The rule is that the qualities of the victim do not automatically and with a general character condition criminal punishment, under the penalty of medievalization of criminal law. In the Manuelina Orders, for example, the crime of adultery was punished with death, but it could not deserve such severe punishment according to the characteristics of the wrong husband; therefore, according to the characteristics of the victim. Adultery ceased to be punished with the death penalty, if the deceived husband was of a social condition inferior to that of the man with whom his wife had deceived him. It was a criminal law in which the punishment depended largely on the characteristics of the victim. But against this, already in the remote eighteenth century, he wrote Pascoal de Melo Freire, one of the biggest Portuguese jurists of Enlightenment, calling it « famous and scandalous difference». Yesterday, on television, Mr André Ventura said that the state has not done anything since 1974. You seem to miss the time of the dictatorship! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u53	But, in criminal matters, the ideas of arrive bring us back much more than those 46 years than you have mentioned. They're taking us back about 500 years. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Today, we do not accept a criminal right as a result of certain victims, because in a people there are no distinction between those who are always pure, kind and chaste and those who are always banned, always permanently, impure. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] Only in the Maniqueist conception of arriving and Mr. André Ventura is that things are like that. On the incoherence of wanting to make public certain crimes invoking the interests of the victim, I will speak again at a later time on our agenda. Let us therefore turn to what deserves to be recorded and weighted: the petition and draft resolutions of the Left Block and the Communist Party. Its contents are not entirely consistent and the three initiatives do not deserve all the same judgment, but the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group follows the idea that the State should actively promote the protection of health professionals and, above all, many steps have been taken through the construction of the Action Plan for the Prevention of Violence in the Health Sector, the creation of a security office, the new law of criminal policy that raises these crimes to priority research and prevention crimes. I conclude by referring to the following: in recent months, the work of health professionals has been more exposed to our eyes. We saw them face death and disease, tell death and disease that they would not pass away. They reminded us of the supreme dignity of the act of healing. We must insist on seeking answers to your efforts and your courage. We will not give up looking for answers, but that they are true. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u54	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will refer to the essential and most important issue on the table, which is the issue of aggression against health professionals. It remains curious how, not losing this matter, neither this petition nor the proposals that are on the table, nowadays, today, in a short time, we all find that perhaps the greatest violence that exists in relation to health professionals are the working circumstances that, unfortunately, this pandemic has forced them. It has forced the country and, in particular, those who are on the front line of fighting the pandemic. Today, we live in a context in some different way, but, as I said, this does not cause us to lose out on this issue. It is clear that this has to do with the de-investment, difficulties and everything that has been the reality of the National Health Service. I do not, however, fail to record, in relation to the parties who always raise this issue, which are already in the second term of a parliamentary majority and which, therefore, if the fault was of the old, there was more than time to correct. [[PCP protests.]] The CFP, year after year, votes the Budgets. That is why, at the moment, those responsible are you, not the governments before the governments of management. Let that be clear! On the other hand, it should also be clear that this government, with this model, refused what it should have done, which was the contractualization, which was to open up all the installed capacity, which was to use all the capacity of the private, which was to use all the capacity of the social sector. Regardless of this, the proposals under discussion, starting with the Left Block, do not deserve much repair or criticism. However, it does not seem to us — and the CDS has systematically asked questions, made demands and suggestions on this matter— which, frankly, add much more to the plans announced by the government itself. The Government has announced two plans in this area. If these plans are to be met, the issue will be dealt with relatively, so to speak, and therefore these plans of the CFP and the Block do not add much. In the case of the CFP, I leave the following note: agreeing with the generality of the proposals, there are cases where it goes a little too far or even falls into a certain lack of meaning. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] I'll tell you what I'm talking about, sir. The PCP, in paragraph 4 of the draft resolution, proposes the availability in the waiting rooms of health professionals specifically dedicated to information to reduce the anxiety of users and their family members. Mr Deputies, in the middle of the pandemic, health professionals are no longer able to measure and we are still going to highlight how many for the waiting room to calm the family members? [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Finally, I am not against utopias in general, but the utopian side of this type of proposals is well understood. [[Continuation of protests by PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr President, if you let me finish... Mr, calm down because we will even vote in favour of your proposal. You don't need to be so nervous when we even vote in favour. [[Continuation of protests by PCP MP João Dias.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]] Madam President, I request 5 or 10 seconds of tolerance, because the honourable Member is nervous. No reason! With regard to the other proposal which is on the table, that of the Arrival, and registering that the Arrival is not present to defend its own proposal — which, finally, will certainly have a sustained reason, even if it is in some way unpublished — I conclude by saying the following: I do not, and I will apologize, Mrs Cládia Santos, what the honourable Member here has done on behalf of the Socialist Party, which is, on account of the authorship of a given proposal, to spend four fifths of her time talking about a proposal of who is not even here to defend it, in a sort of... [[PS Member Protests Cláudia Santos.]] Mr. Member, I shall try to explain my opinion. I said, in a kind of compulsive obsession that you have with arriving, the only objective of which is the permanent promotion of Mr André Ventura and of the Arrival itself, as is evident. And we saw that yesterday because of the aggressive tone, because of the disproposed tone. There is a permanent promotion that they do! [[PS protests.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to tell you the following: this proposal, if we look at it...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u56	Mr. Deputy, conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u57	I'm really finishing up. He said that if we look at it, regardless of the authorship and whatever else, it is not as the honourable Member says. This solution exists in several countries that are not populist-led countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u58	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u59	Now, it is wrong and, contrary to that, it removes the security forces, which is precisely who arrived there should want to put. And with this, I'm done, Madam President. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u60	Mr President, you have greatly exceeded your time, taking advantage of this moment of transition and a blockade that occurred at the Bureau with your computer. Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u61	Mr President, it is only to leave a note on a measure that is fundamental and decisive — indeed, it is already in practice, because of the pandemic situation we have — that it is to put healthcare professionals properly prepared to calm down and reduce anxiety and to clarify the families who are waiting for long hours. Now, Mr Telmo Correia has spent a long time here with nothing to do with it — because it has done nothing to do with it. He spoke, he spoke, he didn't say anything. A measure as important as this, do not devalue it, Mr. It's absolutely deranged from reality. The reality is this and this measure would be essential to create conditions for situations of violence not to occur.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u62	Mrs. Members, we conclude point 2 and move on to item 3 of the agenda, with the debate of Petition No 33 / XIV / 1. a (Jonathan Ferreira da Costa et al.) — Against neo-Nazi conferences in Portugal and for the effective illegalization of fascist / racist / neo-Nazi groups. For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I obviously begin by greeting the petitioners for bringing us today this petition, despite the temporality of it, in some way, has been exceeded. Despite this circumstance, it is still very relevant; quite the contrary. The recent episodes, not in Portugal, but in the United States (United States of America), with the invasion of the Capitol, show us how well the path to which antidemocratic populism and extremist movements lead in different countries. In the face of these same paths and manifestations, we have a duty to remain vigilant and to ensure that everything we do, in this House of Democracy, to safeguard that there is no growth of this kind of force, which is manifestly contrary to our constitutional values and to the values of April, which we have a duty to protect and guard. In fact, the promotion of racist, xenophobic or neo-Nazi events, as well as the existence of organized groups that defend and promote this kind of ideology in Portugal, is a real attack on our democracy and that may call into question our stability, security and the most basic principles and values that have cost us so much, such as our democracy and our freedom. The phenomenon of extreme-right, racist and Nazi intolerance in Portugal is not new, but cannot be forgotten by the state or other entities to which it is responsible for the security of all of us, such as the police forces, for example, and should also deserve special attention to ensure that this kind of ideology is not tolerated or disseminated in our society and, above all, that it does not infiltrate our democratic system, because it itself is an enemy of democracy and constitutional values and freedom. The Constitution determines in its Article 46. which, and I quote, « No military, military, militarized or paramilitary associations, racist organizations or those who have a fascist ideology are allowed», a situation which is contemplated and punished by the current legislation. Recently, we have been witnessing increasing tolerance as to statements both political and associative of these types of movements. We cannot ignore the warnings and appeals of these nearly 10,000 petitioners for the failure to hold neo-Nazi conferences in Portugal or even the signs that already exist in our society and the alerts of bodies such as the United Nations and the European Commission for the continued existence in Portugal of organized groups based on racist principles and on the promotion of violence, threats and persecution, which plan and advertise their actions on social networks and online forums, and public knowledge that groups of this type, associated with violent crime, are infiltrated into organizations and collectiveities, such as football taps. Although it is something already covered by our legislation, this petition reinforces, and well, the need to effectively illegalize these groups of fascist, racist and neo-Nazi charisms, as a form of prevention of violence and discrimination. It is indeed this kind of hatred and violence that cannot be acceptable in our society. I end as I began my speech, saying that history has already shown us that racism, xenophobia and intolerance cause the death of many of our fellow citizens. Portugal has not been immune to this phenomenon. That is why this House should pay particular attention...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u64	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u65	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. As I was saying, this House should pay particular attention not only to what the petitioners come here to claim, as to all manifestations, either inside or outside this Chamber, that call into question our constitutional values.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners. I have been rapporteur for the final report on this petition. I am not going to repeat here the legal-constitutional discourse that is contained in that report, where I was able to give an opinion on the legal limits of action against the so-called 'fascist charities'. We live very difficult times. We live in times of attempt of universal deception, so today to tell the truth, if it is not a revolutionary act, it is a daily, difficult struggle, a commitment to democracy, because the enemies of democracy lie in shooting, lie about us, lie about who we are for the triumph of disunity, fertile land for all extremisms. Our commitment to political struggle is clear and can inspire in António Costa, on the night of the elections, to be erected in this phrase: we do not count on fascism for anything. Fascism, first of all, is to deny freedom to be. Democracy will only be democracy if the power belongs to all people. Who promotes hatred in relation to a minority, a minority of people, who are minorities according to who they are, is against democracy and promotes fascism. And fascism lives from hate, living in fascism is living in terror. We saw on Wednesday with the invasion of the Capitol, what fascism does: it is the great threat to the order and security of all people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Security is not and cannot be a privilege for some people, security has to be for all and all. Security is knowing that democratic institutions are safeguarded. Security is knowing that the laws we draw will not create ghettos. Security is to know that it will not be a preferential target of violence, including police violence, for integrating an ethnic-racial minority. Security is knowing you're never going to threaten to take ovaries away from anyone. Security doesn't count on fascism for anything. Fascism is a gang that doesn't want to be part of us. Democracy is here, in the security of pluralism and in the security of freedom. We don't count on fascism for anything. That is why we know that anyone who displays a photograph of the President of the Republic in the neighborhood of Jamaica, with blacks and blacks, for whom the word « bandits» is used, what he is doing is promoting racism, racial hatred. You're blatantly saying that those people, because they're black, are criminals. And we, who do not count on fascism for anything, do not normalize racism and denounce it. Yes, there are red lines with whom he dehumanizes neighbors, there are red lines with whom he dares to send a Member to his land, because we, in the PS, do not count on fascism for anything. [[Congratulations from the PS, PCP Member Antonio Filipe and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] In the PS, we know what is the threat of today to democracy. We also know about our concrete history. We refuse to fall into the lying game of false symmetry, as if there were equivalent extremes in our party system. We don't count on fascism for anything. We do politics for the positive, uplifted face, affirming the rule of law, economic, social and cultural democracy, representative democracy and the memory of whom it has lost freedom and life, affirming freedom to all people and effective equality. Today, 11 years after January 8, 2010, when this House dedicated more freedom and equality, with access to marriage between people of the same sex, today we say that we will not be silent on any structural problems we have to face. Talking about problems, not amplifying them, on the contrary. We always want democracy to be better, because democracy deserves to be better. We make and we make every bridge with everyone and every democrat. We will always be firm in respect for April, but we do not count on fascism for anything. [[Congratulations from the PS, PCP Member Antonio Filipe and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u68	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition and who bring us a matter that should deserve our full attention and which, including, must be the subject of concern by all Democrats and all those who see and live peacefully with the state of democratic law and with our Constitution. The petitioners are insurgent and, as far as we are concerned, I pay attention to the values inscribed in our Constitution, with all relevance and property, and we do not refer to their legitimacy, because this is absolutely unquestionable, I said, against Nazi conferences in Portugal and require the effective illegalization of fascist, racist or neo-Nazi groups. But in good rigour, what the petitioners demand or demand is that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic be simply complied with, no less or less. What is required is to respect the Basic Law of the Country. Moreover, the petitioners even refer to the text accompanying the petition several provisions of our Constitution that underpin or reinforce their demands and which show, in a very clear way, that these conferences and the existence of groups of fascist, racist or neo-Nazi chariscists have not only nothing to do with the values that guide our constitutional framework, on the contrary, as they still enter grossly and in conflict with various provisions of the Constitution, especially with Article 46 (4). the, which, remember, forbids all armed associations of military type, militarized or paramilitary and racist organizations or that profile fascist ideology. But this petition also has the virtue to remind all Democrats that we must be careful and that it is imperative to respect and comply with the Constitution. For the least attention, the reports contained in the text accompanying this petition may even create a certain surprise and a certain surprise, but what is true is that, as is said in some regions of our country, « they go there ». More or less clothed, with smooth talk, but also with hate speech; in the shadow, but also in the sun; with embroidered boots, or with woolen fishes; but there they go. And they are active and committed to trying to revive fascism, the regime that oppressed the Portuguese for almost half a century and who silent, who persecuted, who tortured, who sowed hunger and poverty, who multiplied poverty and nourished war. In conclusion, I want to say that the Greens fully share the concerns and feelings of rejection and indignation more than justified ones brought to us by the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition that we are now discussing and hope that the Constitution will be respected and, in this matter, that it will be fully respected and fulfilled, because fascism is not tolerated, fascism fights itself. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to greet the nearly 10 000 people, in the person of the first petitioner, Jonathan Costa, who signed the petition « Against neo-Nazi conferences in Portugal and for the effective illegalization of fascist/racist/neonazi groups», highlighting the importance and relevance of this petition. The petition, initially motivated by the holding in Lisbon of a meeting organised by the European extreme right, extends its scope and reveals the attempts to commit murder, aggression, threats to activists and journalists, publications of supremacist content, hate speech, the use of symbols of Nazi ideology, the appeal to arms and so many other attempts to ban racial discrimination and reinforce the white supremacist fantasy, inciting hatred, violence and division in Portuguese society. Right-wing extremism represents one of the greatest threats to our democracy and our security. It is time for the intransigent defence of equality and the urgent and determined fight against hate speech and all forms of violence. What is happening in Portugal and in the world shows us the urgency of this commitment and this fight. at a time when the hate speech and the racist and xenophobic agenda of the extreme right seek to impose themselves in our country, denial and inaction are not an option. The defence of freedom, equality and justice is not an abstract conception evoked exclusively in the days we march through Avenida, remembering April. This defense is part of a daily, committed and intransigent practice. We cannot accept, and we will not accept, the normalization of the hate speech and the attacks committed by these groups. Racial and xenophobic acts cannot be confused with freedom of expression. Hate is not an opinion, it's a crime. They represent not only an unequivocal violation of the constitutional principle of freedom and an explicit threat to democracy, as they constitute a crime of discrimination and incitement to hatred and violence as provided for in Article 240. the Criminal Code and punishable by imprisonment. Being a crime, the law must be fulfilled. It is up to the Public Prosecutor to investigate and punish justice. It is therefore imperative that, in addition to the political and social condemnation of these acts, its authors should be identified and brought to justice. political agents must act against the normalization of these speeches, against the normalization of these practices. We are called upon and summoned to unequivocally defend the democracy of fascist ideology and protect all people from persecution, intimidation and hatred that conveys an ideology that threatens, insults and adviles. In the previous legislature, the Left Block presented a bill for the amendment of the Criminal Code, in order to improve the instruments to combat racial discrimination, deepening criminal and criminal treatment in its most serious forms. However, this proposal was cast with the votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u72	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u73	But don't give up, we won't give up. We will resubmit proposals in this and other matters related to the action of fascist and racist groups. For it is not only democracy that is threatened for those and those who are the targets of these groups, for us, that we are the targets of hatred and racist persecution, fascist, homophobic, transphobic, misogynistic, it is the very life that is at risk. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Meireles of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: To make it clear, the PSD strongly condemns any ideology or organization that promotes the negation of civilizational values that are contrary to the principles of our democracy, of a European or Western type, or that incite violence and hatred. The three PSD arrows characterize our genetic values: freedom, equality and solidarity. Fascism and Nazism, as well as all the ideologies of collective evil, including Bolshevism, Leninism, Stalinism and all the currents that contain a vision of the megalomanian world, apocalyptic, war, genocide, racist, totalitarian discourse, the destruction of human beings, the pathological manipulation of the masses that lead to the ruin of peoples and individuals, are, for us, unacceptable. As we know, the Basic Law prohibits the constitution of racist organizations and that we profile fascist ideology. We also know, according to the organic law of the Constitutional Court, that this is responsible for deciding whether a particular organization is a profiler of fascist ideology and, subsequently, declare its extinction. If the consecration of this competence is very clear, it seems equally evident that, in the words of Mrs Moreira, to whom I welcome the position of common sense, our Constitution does not impose a model of virtuous tolerance. That is, our constitutional order is open and pluralistic. Fundamental rights are mostly tense, dialectically, often almost contradictory. Only in this way is it understood that, in order to guarantee the right of freedom of expression, our Constitution does not prohibit the individual expression of racist or fascist thought. It is true, as the rapporteur said, that this perplexity of democracy can protect its own enemies. Yeah, but it's the democratic game. It is only important to bear in mind that people are free to participate and to intervene politically in the community as they understand. But will you be free from making use of neo-Nazi conferences or fascist charismatic encounters? It is true that the brewery shaker rose to power by the democratic way and thus the world had 2174 days of war. This means that democracy can allow the bacillus of poverty to settle, but on the other hand, we cannot impose all our ideas on all people and think that it is enough to ban them in order to solve the problem in their genesis. Another mistake is to consider that only neo-fascist and Nazi groups are bad for the current order and, at the same time, being socially soft or politically correct with certain revolutionary extreme-left movements, which can organize themselves and walk freely, wanting to decree a single, equally criminal way. All acts of violence and hatred are condemned, either of extreme right or of extreme left. All ideologies against democracy and the rule of law are reprehensible, either from extreme right or extreme left, or white or red. I confess I am puzzled to see that among the subscribers of the petition are movements that seem to have a questionable nature, such as the Marxist Collective of Lisbon, the Revolutionary Left — The Centella, the Special Communist Online Interactive Force — Project Foice, among others. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in democracy no one is safe, especially when our intelligence is polluted with labels or biases of reasoning that condemn certain movements, but they whiten the performance of others. To finish and sum up our position, I end with this quote by Voltaire: "I do not agree with what you say, but I would give life for the right to say. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u76	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the subscribers of this petition and acknowledge its relevance, its relevance, its currentity and the reasons for the concerns expressed by the petitioners, of course. This petition calls on political parties to take a clear stand against the violation of our Constitution, history and memory, which means the activity of organizations to profile the fascist and neo-Nazi ideology in Portugal, associated with the holding of an international meeting of such organizations in 2019. from the PCP side, its history, its past and its present are an unequivocal proof of its commitment to combat fascism in Portugal and the struggle for conquest, consolidation and defense of democracy against all the forces that threaten it. The activity of fascist and neo-Nazi organizations in Portugal has also been the subject of concern by the latest annual internal security reports, it is important to highlight this. And why? Because the spread of fascist and neo-Nazi ideology is associated with criminal activities, indissociable from this ideology. It is not by chance that subscribers draw attention to the legal provisions which, in Portugal, under the Constitution and the law, place these activities. In fact, what they call attention is to the practice of crimes of threat, persecution, invasion of private life, theft through computer technology, discrimination and incitement to hatred and violence, public incitement to crime, criminal association, terrorist organizations, threat to crime. This is actually what we're talking about. Therefore, if we can say that the problem is not so much of a legislative order, because there are punitive legal provisions of this type of activity, of course its accountability implies an activity of all the competent entities for this purpose. It requires action by the judicial authorities, in order to prevent and hold all the authors of these activities and criminal organizations following them, but also requires an unequivocal intervention by the holders of the sovereign bodies from the pedagogical point of view of preventing the activities of these organizations. The worst thing you can do is normalize them, and that's what we're watching. When we are pleased with the hate speech, we are normalizing the fascist and neo-Nazi charismatic organizations and this normalization is intended to equate the fascists to whom he fought, to whom he gave his life in the fight against fascism so that in Portugal we could live in freedom and democracy. [[PCP, PS and MPs applauded Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The normalization of fascism is done precisely by this way, because of this equalization. I therefore welcome the interventions made, apart from, unfortunately, the intervention that Mrs Isabel Meireles has just done, which is an element for the normalization of these organisations which threaten Portuguese democracy. We regret your speech, Mrs Deputy. We would like to welcome the petitioners and the speeches made by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, Mrs Isabel Moreira, Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of whom only the PSD understood the duty to withdraw. [[PCP, PS, BE, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u78	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, having been checked, I inform you that we have clearly exceeded voting quorum, as usual. Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u79	Mr President, just to demonstrate that there is ever more opportunity to extort, by exercising it, I would like to say, firstly, that this petition does not bring much again with regard to our law and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic expressly prohibits the existence of fascist charismatic organizations and, moreover, of organizations with a violent, discriminatory, racist nature, etc. So it is in the Constitution and it is not here that we are going to change or solve the problem, even though we know it — and I think we all know it — that, by consecrating this idea, the Constitution obviously had a historical framework, which was not to return to the previous regime in the post-25 April. We all have that notion. The fact that this petition does not add much, in addition to rhetoric, is demonstrated by none of the parties who most rhetorically defended the idea of having presented a single initiative on this subject. Because if there was something to do here, someone would have remembered a small initiative, or that it was a small draft resolution, as we have seen in other matters. Nothing! There was no initiative. So it doesn't add much to what's already in the law, and I'd say it's okay. But it's okay, with one or another save. The first has a little bit to do with what Mr António Filipe has said and which is the following: I cannot be more critical and more against what, from an ideological point of view, represents Marxism-Leninism, which, in many respects and historically, equates with the organizations and crimes of Nazism or fascism. In fact, from this point of view, there is no distinction between Hitler and Stalin. If we have to make a comparison between the two, I don't know who's the most criminal and who wins the greatest criminal medal from the historical point of view. But this is an ideological issue and, when we make this ideological debate, we must recognize that the constitutional parties, the parliamentary parties that have seats here, cannot, ever be considered — because otherwise they would have to be illegalised — within this spectrum of organizations that have to be illegalized and banned. Therefore, obviously, respect for Parliamentary nature, the legal nature and democratic participation of all the parties in this House, and I say « all», without exception, precisely because, as someone said — and well! — the role of democracy is to include, not to exclude, to allow different ideas. As in the famous phrase attributed to Voltaire, and which, it seems, has been from his biography, but that is not why it makes no sense, I can disagree deeply about what is said by those benches, but I would defend with my life the right to say it. Mrs. Members, that is the integration of democracy, that is the integrative logic. Different things are movements such as those mentioned here, such as the New Social Order, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u80	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u81	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. Movements, he said, often of a criminal nature, that cannot exist in our society, as it is evident. I conclude by saying that they are not deluded, because there are, in fact, two poles and two ends. And the two poles and the two ends feed each other,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u82	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u83	... many of them are condemned by people from the American left, like Nancy Pelosi, for example. These antifas who subscribe to this thing are also an expression of radicalism and violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u84	Thus, we came to the end of the assessment of Petition 33 / XIV / 1. a. We move on to point 4 of the agenda, with the discussion of Petition No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( Independent Union of Teachers and Educators ) — Consider aggressions to teachers and educators as a public crime. Strengthen the authority of the teacher and educator, together with, in general, the Bill No. 28 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Except for the need to complain and aggravate the criminal framework for crimes committed with violence, in schools and their surroundings and adjacent facilities or against the school community (Fifty-third amendment to the Criminal Code) and with draft Resolution No 612 / XIV/1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and respond to violence in the school context. To present the draft law of the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u85	Madam President, I apologize for the waiting compass, but I was trying to find the right notes in successive debates, so to speak. I have already found them, Madam President, but I see that the CFP is also looking for them, so I would ask you to wait a while.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u86	Mr President, do not worry about the other parliamentary groups. Please make your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u87	Madam President, we are in good condition. It's just that I watched the signaling that was made to me, no more than that. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating a petition referring to and raising a question that has a little to do with what we have talked about in a previous debate about health professionals, and that concerns the successive acts and situations of violence we have experienced, related to the environment and the school environment, in which, often, the victims are the teachers — we have numerous reports of that — but not always only the teachers are the victims of this kind of violence. We also had situations of violence with school assistants and among students from certain schools, with great media impact on society. In our view, this has to do with a reality that we all have to think about and think about. In fact, for various reasons — social, cultural and even new forms of communication — our society has certain aspects of violence that we did not know and which, of course, must concern us. What does the CDS understand about this matter? It understands something that is not new, which we have already proposed in other circumstances, which is precisely a recognition, if we want not only to function, that is to say, those who need to be protected by these rules, but also the space and the environment which must be protected by that rule. Therefore, our proposal has a logic not only to make this type of crime public, regardless of who the victims are, but also to create an aggravation for crimes committed in the school environment. Not following exactly the way that is proposed by the petition, subscribed by thousands of teachers, but finding a solution to this matter, with an idea that is ours and that I repeat here, and I hope that you will understand and accept the expression: that the school environment, the school community should be, in relation to violence, a particularly protected reality, a sort of, pass the expression, of sanctuary. That is, if there is a place where we have to ensure that violent behaviors, aggressive behaviors, whether in the school community or other types of crimes, such as threats, drug trafficking, etc. , they cannot enter it must be precisely in this protection area, in this protection zone, which has to be the school community and what surrounds it. I know the argument that there are already aggravatings in relation to the exercise of functions, especially in cases of particular perversion. However, we understand that this political signal, this sign of understanding, this sign of corresponding to that signal that it is necessary to protect teachers and students in this kind of matter is something that deserves our concern and, therefore, we are going to meet the petition by presenting here, today, on this subject, a project to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u88	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic recognises to all citizens the right to freedom, security and physical integrity, as well as the right to education with equal opportunities for access and success at school. Violence in the school environment is not just an individual issue of crime, punishment and punishment. The absence of a secure school environment prevents the right to education as foreseen in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, and this includes both violence against teachers and educators, as well as violence against non-teachers, as well as violence against students and their families. This petition promoted by the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators, which I take advantage of to greet, focuses on one aspect of this complex phenomenon to which we call'school violence', which are, in this respect, physical or verbal aggressions to teachers and educators, but which can also be likened, in their nature, to aggressions to non-teachers. These concerns are legitimate and we are aware of the context that gave rise to them, so the Left Block presents a project that aims to respond to them, with a strategy to prevent violence in school context. If it is true that there is a criminal issue involved and here we must trust the police and the courts, it is also true that the climate of impunity needs to be combated, but even more true is that the essential of safeguarding the safe school environment is in prevention, that is, it is in the capacity to act before it is done. Firstly, and because this is a serious matter, it is important that we do our actions and initiatives on reality and not on perceptions. And reality tells us that, unlike the escalation of violence that may have been perceived at some point—at least these are the data of the Safe School—there are less than 9, 6 % of criminal occurrences, especially physical assaults, from 2018 to 2019. This is also the trend recorded by the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ) in relation to the registration of occurrences and incidents of criminal level in school. The Superior Council of the Public Ministry, which drew up an opinion on the project originally submitted by the CDS, also drew attention to this decrease in the trend of violence presented and described in RASI. This opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry also states, in relation to the original project of the CDS, that the CDS project discourages the penal content already existing in the Statute of the Student and Ethics of the School and that the worsening of the penalties applicable to crimes committed at school and in its vicinity is already in criminal prediction established in that law. The Supreme Council of Justice also raised reservations about the need and relevance of the criminal framework. Therefore, we believe that there is a debate to be held about some of these crimes, especially hate crimes, happen within or outside the context and the school space, but it is too simplistic, purely and simply, to include the school context in all crimes based on wrong and alarmist representations about reality. We, in the Left Block, point to another path, a path that we consider to be more effective: first, it is necessary to frame the disruption of school activities and school violence as a social phenomenon and, therefore, it is necessary to act on the context. We therefore propose: the strengthening of the Safe School programme as a measure of prevention and proximity police; clear guidelines for schools to identify what is school violence, how to combat it and what measures should be taken; multidisciplinary teams composed of teachers, technicians, psychologists, social workers who can build integrated strategies for each social reality and every reality and each school community; conditions for generational renewal, but also for the stability of the teaching and non-teaching framework, because this permanent exchange between teachers and non-teachers also creates instability, also breaks bonds of trust within schools. We propose more: training in conflict management for teachers and assistants: pedagogical measures to combat indiscipline and to create well-being within the school, such as the decrease in the number of students per class, the improvement of the conditions of school social action and also the requalification of the School Park. This is a first set of measures to understand that school violence is a specific reality of the school community, but it has many causes and has to be attacked in its context, especially in a preventive manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u91	I will finish, Madam President. Secondly, in order to combat impunity, it is possible and it is necessary to encourage and provide security to the victim in the complaint when a crime occurs and, therefore, we also propose exemptions from the Judicial Costs Regulation for such crimes. Madam President, in conclusion, I just wanted to say the following...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u92	You really have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u93	I conclude by saying that the change in the criminal framework cannot be an alternative to policies for the prevention of school violence and the construction of a secure school environment is too serious a matter for us to be able to deal with apparent solutions, but that are, in fact, only superficial. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u94	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, including the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators, who brought us this petition by appealing that, in some way, the aggressions to teachers and educators be considered a public crime, but also in a prevention perspective, a dimension that seems more than relevant to us. For the NAP, the contributions that are given here and the various initiatives presented highlight a importance and concern with the fight and eradication of all forms of violence in our society, being not acceptable to attack or question the safety, physical integrity and also, of course, the emotional well-being of professionals who daily care for children and young people, often doing so under less adequate conditions for the exercise of their profession and at the cost of their physical well-being and their own health. The growth of these cases cannot be seen lightly. Unjustified violence against the elements of the school community is a transversal phenomenon to the growth of violence that we have been talking about today and that we continue to watch in our society in different dimensions, so we should be concerned and we should seek strategies to combat it. Where, before, we had rare or sporadic cases, which shocked us and deserve our full attention, today, happen in a recurrent way and that at nothing benefit the desirable security environment that must prevail in schools, in the name not only of respect and protection for the dignity of these professionals, but also of the students who have also come to be the target of increasing violence. Nor can I mention that students themselves in universities complain about assaults, violence, often completely unpunished until they are practiced by strangers. In this regard, I am referring to the fact that in the State budget itself for 2021 it was possible to register, on a proposal from the NAP, the extension of the Safe School programme to the Safe University project, reinforcing what is the security context in universities. It is essential that, from an early age to university education, teachers and students have, in fact, a safety school context. This expansion, and in the face of the emergence of some movements in our society—in particular, in a context of socio-economic crisis, in which there is greater intolerance and greater inability to respect, often, rights and behaviors in various social sectors, be it in health and justice and not only in education—must shock us, but lead us to a deeper reflection both of the Penal Code and of different strategies, including the prevention strategy, against what violence may be in the different sectors. That is why we believe that the Penal Code — and we have already had the opportunity to say it — should be a more in-depth and not time-consuming reflection of what this type of crime can be, of what these kinds of phenomena can be. On the other hand, the Bloc proposal, concerning the prevention of these types of phenomena, seems to us to be proportionate and appropriate and, in this sense, we will be accompanying it by voting in favour, since it seems to us that we must act immediately to combat all these phenomena, but, above all, find urgently an integrated strategy to prevent violence in school context.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u96	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u97	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. As I said, we urgently need to find an integrated strategy to prevent violence in the school context that, including, enables early identification and avoid this type of attitude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating the petition that calls for the aggression of teachers and educators to be considered as a public crime and that the authority of the teacher and educator — and I take advantage of to greet the more than 8,000 petitioners — has been discussed as much as the teachers have given, in the context of the epidemic that suddenly struck us, a response to the height, even with few means and resources. During the confinement, the teachers kept in touch with the students and, in a short time, were able to adapt to the circumstances for the monitoring of some subjects to take place. They were actors, listeners were attentive to the problems of families, many turned out to be the expected visit, at a time when we did not receive visits or leave to walk. The teacher is a key element in every young person's life because, besides teaching to read and write, he teaches to risk, to think, to play, to interact, to discover the world through images, stories, through knowledge. Public school is not only an area of crucial importance to children and families, but also to all of us as society. While parents work, it is the school that entrusts their children and society entrusts future generations to the school community to ensure renewal. There are problems and we have to deal with them. It is necessary to value the conditions of schools in order to ensure the space, time and mode, so necessary for the follow-up of children and young people. It is necessary to articulate the various valences in the level of pedagogical support, but also psychological, without forgetting social intervention, in a wide approach involving students and their families. It is necessary to ensure immediate intervention capacity in the event of conflict. These are essential measures to prevent violence and aggression, but in case there is violence in school, whether against non-teachers or particularly against teachers, it is also essential to act rapidly by the authorities and by justice. But for this, it takes more teachers, more psychologists, more technicians, more assistants with more training, intense and permanent, to deal pro-actively with new and growing problems. And more means are needed in the security forces and in justice. Tipifying crime as a public crime may be a step, but it will certainly not be enough and it will not be the solution if there is then no ability to avoid it or to guarantee the consequent action if it happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u100	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the petitioners, as representatives of the union, present in the galleries and greet all teachers, educators and other educational workers, because they have an unmistakable role and must even be valued. The CFP considers that the school must be a dynamic place that reflects the vitality of youth, which promotes the inclusion of the whole community in the school environment, in a participatory, healthy and harmonious way. We have reported that there is a lack of structured intervention, in order to promote an effective fight against phenomena of indiscipline, violence, bullying or exclusion within the school, but also beyond the school premises. It is necessary, above all, Mrs and Mrs. Members, act to prevent problems, rather than at the end of the line. We defend that the option of repressive measures should not be the first approach to problems in schools. Agitating sanctions to the detriment of inclusion, without taking concrete measures at the political and social level, does not act on the genesis of the problem, but rather acts on only one of its manifestations. On the other hand, it is often defended that the criminal regime is aggravated with the idea of altering social consciousness in relation to certain types of crimes. Only that is not the function of criminal law, nor is it the way of criminal repression altering social consciousness. Moreover, the extreme proximity of the educational community and its actors and the particular context in which the educational mission runs should reinforce the idea that the self-determination of the victim should not be merely instrumental or disposable, in the face of an abstract conception of justice. Thus, if we share concerns about the existence of conditions that promote a healthy and inclusive school environment, we do not follow solutions such as those proposed by the CDS in its initiative. Although they may be seductive to those who have to deal with these issues on the ground, it seems to us that they are wrong for the victim's own interests and for the coherence of an appropriate criminal policy. On the contrary, we will follow the initiative of BE, because in general it points to precisely the solutions that the CFP has proposed over time. The CFP argues that it is the strengthening of public school and the valorisation of its workers, as well as the improvement of the general living conditions of all workers who reside in the great struggle against conflict. The CFP therefore advocates the urgent need to reduce the number of students per class; to increase the number of school workers — teachers, assistants, specialized technicians — by strengthening, inter alia, the number of psychologists, mediators and other social and cultural service professionals; to end the instability and precariousness of all public school workers; to strengthen school social action for students and their families; to re-qualify the entire school park, which is an urgent issue—there is still news about the cold that is happening in schools. What conditions do students have to be learning and living in a harmonious way the teaching-learning process when they pull cold and have to be wrapped in blankets? It is also necessary to implement the right to culture and the right to sport for all young people. It is known that these are effective ways of promoting a feeling of much more harmonious and much less conflictive participation in schools and need to be even encouraged. Finally, and it cannot fail to be, it is necessary to improve the living conditions of the general population, in particular by increasing wages, respecting rights, ensuring that there are all conditions so that, indeed, we can all be in harmony to live well, collectively, in the country in which we live. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u102	For an intervention, Mrs Claúdia Santos, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent months, we are more aware of the importance that the State has in our lives and we understand better how vital it is the role of those who teach our children, treat our parents and grandparents, keep our cities clean or protect our safety. The last few months have required additional effort from the teachers in particular. In the first phase of confinement, they needed to learn to teach differently. They spent endless hours in front of the computers. They didn't give up on the students. They damaged their personal space and that of their families, with papers spread through the sofa and on the dinner table. Then they returned to schools, but they no longer had to take just the books. They also wore masks and these masks have a weight and have a meaning. The task of the teachers was no longer just to teach. They also needed to ensure safety: for their safety, for the safety of their students and, on average, for the safety of all. It's a heavy burden. It's been a heavy burden. at this point in our agenda, several initiatives are grouped, but there is one that deserves privileged treatment. I refer to the petition that supports this agenda and the Independent Union of Teachers and Educators, which promoted it. It is the purpose of this petition that assaults on teachers be considered public crimes. The CDS bill also seeks that the crimes committed with violence in schools and in their surroundings become considered public crimes. This draft law of the CDS is very similar to the draft law of the Arrival, which was the subject of our analysis at the second point of today's agenda, and we will admit that only because of this enormous similarity is that Mr. Telmo Correia went out so vehemently in defense of the Arrival, absent, at the previous point in the agenda of this Plenary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS bill has several technical difficulties. The mistakes that Mr Telmo Correia was speaking about the draft law of the Republic of Germany are being made here, but there are other serious errors which are, in fact, referred to in the opinions of the consulted entities on this initiative. In the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Magistrature, for example, there are examples of situations in which the project wants to aggravate penalties that are already aggravated, and more than in the CDS project, other cases in which it is intended to become public crimes that are already public and still hypotheses in which it is intended to become public crimes that should not be. The conclusion of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy is transparent, and I quote: « some of the proposed changes may in practice lead to more problems than those they seek to respond ». There is, however, a fundamental problem in the idea that victims are protected by making public the crimes committed against them. To say this is not even to understand the criterion of distinction between a public crime, on the one hand, and a private or semi-public crime, on the other. A crime must be public when the legislator believes that criminal proceedings must exist, irrespective of the will of the victim, on behalf of the entire community, whose interest is considered more relevant than the interest of the victims. It often happens that victims of a crime want answers other than those given by criminal justice, answers sometimes more compensating and more peaceful. They may not want to expose their privacy in the public area of criminal justice. This is not taken into account in public crimes, in which the criminal process works in defense of the entire community. And it is precisely in the name of respect for the will of the victims that, in certain cases, crimes should be considered private, in a broad sense, and the criminal procedure must depend on complaint. It is therefore incomprehensible for us that someone, just because he is a teacher, should be obliged to intervene in a criminal trial that otherwise, if the crime was particular, would depend on the manifestation of his will. The difference is whether the complaint must have associated the execution of a expenditure. And the answer is: it must not, if the victim does not have the economic means to support it. We know that the effort that has been required of our teachers is enormous and that many may be tired. And we need to give them answers. Changing criminal law is the easy answer and it's the answer that doesn't cost money. But when we look for real answers, we understand that what we need is to persevere in the search for more inclusive education, to continue to strengthen the number of psychologists in schools, to continue investment in the Safe School Program or in bullying prevention programs and to promote conflict mediation in school context. Steps that may not always be giant, but that have been given and that we want them to be safe steps. Only those who have already entered a classroom and have seen themselves face to face comprehend the emotion that exists in teaching, understand the importance of teaching as a passport for a fuller and more accomplished adult age, the discovery of the special magic of the light of a room where we meet with us and with the future of all. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u105	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I will only say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group reiterates here its deep gratitude to all teachers and educators in our country. Thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u106	Mr Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by congratulating the petitioners, who bring to this House a matter of greatest importance: the growing and successive violence that occurs in relation to teachers in the exercise of their duties. Although 2020 is an atypical year in terms of numbers, it is an issue which is, in addition to serious, intolerable and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u109	It also has inevitable consequences for our collective future. Let us see: that student who, today, does not see authority in the teacher, will soon be an adult citizen who, eventually, will also have children. Based on what values will you educate them?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u110	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u111	That student who today disrespects the teacher and will, in principle, have a job one day, respect his hierarchical superiors? That student who, today, hires a teacher, how will he deal, one day later, with other officials of authority? This problem of violence and aggression against teachers, by students, and, as incredible as it seems, even by parents, is a situation that should make us reflect with great seriousness, until it comes from a place that should have as its main function preparing students for the future. What citizens are we preparing for the future in our country? It is the Constitution itself of the Portuguese Republic which establishes that ensuring education is a fundamental task of the State, which must be assumed in all its scopes, which, of course, includes the creation of security conditions for all actors within the school area. To that end, it is essential to ensure that our schools and classrooms are safe places and the last thing we can allow is that they become crime schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u113	And we must all strive to promote a culture of respect in schools and dignity of teachers, in particular because of their social function. in this sense, we have two ways to analyze here today. On the one hand, we have a draft law of the CDS, which points to a more legal path in order to aggravate the criminal framework of the crimes committed in schools and in their vicinity. Although we agree with the explanatory statement, the fact is that there are some issues on which we have little reservations: first, in our legal system, under 16 years of age are impermissible, so the solution to aggravate the criminal framework is not applicable to them. Secondly, legally, the aggressions in schools are already planned and punished in criminal law, and criminal laws have, purposely, an abstract frame in order to enable the court to measure and fit between very light, medium or very heavy criminal frameworks, and there is a wide distance between minimum and maximum penalties. Therefore, this worsening of the penalties is quite relative, taking into account this faculty that falls to the courts. And, as it is known, it is not through the worsening of the penalties measures which, as a rule, obtain the resocialization of the crime agent, but through effective measures that allow for full reintegration, as well as the recovery of the victim and the repair of the State, only thus achieving the repair of the violated legal good.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u115	As far as this complexity is concerned, the resolution of this problem will not simply go through a legal solution. On the other hand, in another aspect and even in a complementary way, we have a draft resolution of the Left Block, which, being a draft resolution will always be dependent on the good execution of it by the Government. And if the situation of aggression in schools is as it is, this too is a reflection of the government's lack of action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u116	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u117	However, this draft resolution points to solutions to be implemented in the schools themselves, which, not being miraculous solutions, can contribute to an improvement in various concrete aspects of this serious situation, putting in particular on prevention measures. It is indeed essential that the Government, in its executive role, implement both prevention measures, as measures to respond to violence in school context. It is important to promote a culture of respect in the classrooms, both by the older person—in this case, the teacher—and by the other educational agents, by the school itself and by the colleagues themselves. Only in this way will we again dignify the role of the teacher and strengthen his authority in the school context. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u118	To conclude this debate, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u119	Mr President, taking advantage of the opportunity given to me by Mrs Cláudia Santos of the Socialist Party, I would like to say, on behalf of the truth, that, as far as I remember — the honourable Member will not know — the CDS defends this matter and this proposal for at least 20 years. So if someone went to copy the proposal from another, it certainly wasn't the CDS, because, to remind me, for at least 20 years we've been defending this proposal, which we've submitted several times. Mrs Deputy, I did not in any way defend the proposal of the Arrival, but even criticise it. The only thing I'm saying is that Mrs Deputy, having 5 minutes to talk about an important subject, spent 4 minutes and a half of her time talking about who hasn't even worked to be here to defend her proposal. Now, this leads me to a reflection: if you did not come here or come here to defend your proposal and the honourable Member almost only spoke of the proposal of the Arrival, of the two, or is due to obsession or is because you are very interested in promoting the Arrival,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ...what I suspect is not the intention of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u120	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u121	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying something very simple. I am not against the initiatives and proposals of the Left Block, which are useful, but those who agree with the petition and with the 8,000 petitioners have only one hypothesis: voting in favour of the CDS proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u122	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u123	... because it is the only one who defends, as the petition defends, that aggression against teachers and in the school community is a public crime. That is what we stand for, the final point. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u124	We have thus reached the end of this agenda item. of the fifth and last points are the votes in the Rules of Procedure, for which we have more than enough deliberation quorum, to the extent that 195 Mrs and Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's start with the Vote Project No. 435 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues ) — Despite the death of Carlos do Carmo. I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last January 1st, Carlos do Carmo, at 81 years of age, a unique voice of the fado and the Portuguese song. Born in Lisbon on December 21, 1939, son of Lucília do Carmo, fadista, and Alfredo de Almeida, bookkeeper and owner of a fairy house, Carlos do Carmo de Ascension Almeida grew between music and word. More than a singer, Carlos do Carmo was an interpreter. In his voice, beautiful, expressive and perfect dictionary, the word acquired sublime value and meaning. With a career of decades, beginning in the sixties of the last century, Carlos do Carmo was simultaneously continuous and innovative, having been able to incorporate into the fado and song traditional elements of other musical currents, making himself accompanied to piano, contrabajo and symphonic orchestra, in partnerships with great names of Portuguese music, such as António Vitorino de Almeida, Bernardo Sassetti, Maria João Pires, as well as Fernando Tordo, Paulo de Carvalho, José Luís Tinoco or José Nice. Also in the texts he sang and interpreted, there are poems of authors as diverse as Bocage, Antero de Quental, Carlos Oliveira, António Gedeão, in addition to Ary dos Santos, Manuel Alegre, Vasco Graza Moura or Nuno Judice. from its report are fairy tales or songs such as Lisboa China e Moça, Estrela da Tarde, Canoes do Tejo or Por Morrer una Andorinha, which will last forever in the inventory of Portuguese culture. If the fairy is from Lisbon, Carlos do Carmo, as previously Amália, has freed him from his borders and made him universal. Not only for having taken the largest concert halls in the world, but also for their contribution, as a co-ambassador, to the UNESCO recognition of the Fairy as an Immaterial Heritage of Humanity. In addition to a man of culture, Carlos do Carmo was also a relevant figure in the struggle for freedom and in the construction of the country of April, in which he worked so hard. during his life, Carlos do Carmo was twice thanked by the President of the Republic with honorary degrees: in 1997 Jorge Sampaio assigned to him the rank of Commander of the Order of the Child D. Henrique and, in 2016, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa fê -lo Grande-Oficial da Orde do Mérito. Carlos do Carmo also received several awards, awarded by his albums or career, that stand out, in 2003, the José Afonso Prize, awarded by the Amadora Municipal Chamber, in 2004, the Municipal Merit Medal, Grau Ouro, of the Municipal Chamber of Lisbon, in 2008, the Goya Prize in the category of Best Original Song, and in 2014 the Grammy Latino, obtained in the category Lifetime Achievement. The man was silent, but his voice remains. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of Carlos do Carmo, a fundamental figure of the fado and the Portuguese song, paying tribute to man and artist and conveying to his family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u126	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. I inform the House that they are present in the galleries, relatives of Carlos do Carmo : Carmo scholarships, Cila do Carmo and Gil do Carmo. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now have the Vote Project No. 437 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues and PS Deputies ) — Despite the death of João Cutileiro. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last January 5, at the age of 83, João Cutileiro, the main name of the Portuguese sculpture. Born in Lisbon on June 26, 1937, João Pires Cutileiro soon benefited from contact with artists and intellectuals who attended his parents' homes, such as Abel Manta or Antonio Pedro, a surrealist with whom he began his drawing in 1946 — who, moreover, claimed to be the origin of everything. Between 1949 and 1951 he attended Jorge Barradas' studio, later travelling to the workshop of António Duarte, of whom he was an assistant, giving himself the first contact with the stone, which he would no longer leave. Between 1953 and 1954 he attended the School of Fine Arts in Lisbon, being a pupil of Leopoldo de Almeida, a teacher of whom one can claim to be one of the successors, either in the size of the work, or in the task of forming generations of new artists—who, with him and through the sculpture, helped to revisit the Portuguese identity. Running away from the academy, headed to Slade School of Fine Art in London, under the influence of Paula Rego, there developing studies with Reg Butler, between 1955 and 1959. The sculptor is truly born, who soon realizes that plastic arts have a capacity of subversion similar to that of the word, and with it the fighter for democracy—with passages through the Democratic Unity Movement and the Portuguese Communist Party and the approach to the Socialist Party. The return to Portugal, in the spring of March, is not free of controversy: in 1973, signs the statue of Dom Sebastião, in Lagos (town where he was residing), the target of violent criticism, and that José-Augusto France then considers one of the best statues of Portugal — and the most modern of all, breaking the heroic tradition of Portuguese academy and mirroring a fragile king and almost child. In the same figurative line that characterizes it, it signs a large set of public statuary, worth highlighting, for the rupture they constituted, the works installed in the center of Vila Real de Santo António ( statue of the Marquês de Pombal ), in Parque Eduardo VII, in Lisbon ( Monument on 25 April ), or in the Assembly of the Republic, with the bust of Natalia Correia, of 1999. With strong links to the Alentejo, he moved to Évora in 1985, there exposing his multifaceted work (not only sculpture, but also photography and drawing) in his own home. He went to Alentejo — to the Regional Directorate of Culture of Alentejo, to the University of Évora and to the Municipal Chamber of Évora — which donated his husbandship, composed of over 900 works. Represented in public and private collections in Portugal and abroad, João Cutileiro would be distinguished as Officer of the Military Order of Sant’ Iago da Espada, in 1983, and receiving the Medal of Cultural Merit in 2018, for the excellence of his work. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of John Cutileiro, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u128	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I also inform the Chamber that Ms. Ana Filipa Roldão, daughter-in-law of the sculptor, is present in the gallery. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we move on to the Vote Project No. 434 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and subscribed by PS and PSD Members ) — Greetings for the International Day of Migration. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Migration exists in a variety of circumstances: demand for work, education or family reasons, escape from conflict, persecution, terrorism or human rights violations, effects of climate change, natural disasters or other environmental factors. If there are those who migrate by choice, many others do so by necessity. There are about 68 million people who have been forced to travel, including more than 25 million refugees, 3 million asylum seekers and more than 40 million internally displaced people. In 2019, the number of migrants worldwide reached 272 million, representing 3, 5 % of the global population. About 30% of the world's migrant population lives in Europe. Portugal is a country of migrants, either by emigration or by immigration. In 2019 there were 590 348 citizens/foreigners/people in Portugal, the highest ever value representing only 5, 7 % of total residents. The contribution of migrant people to social and cultural diversity, to the balance of the demographic balance and to the sustainability of social security systems for the benefit of destination communities is unequivocal. However, there are deep inequalities. Migrants are subject to greater precariousness and labour exploitation, they take lower wages, are more affected by unemployment, receive less unemployment support and face greater risk of poverty or social exclusion. These problems worsened further during the pandemic, affecting these populations disproportionately. Migrants are also often the target of racism and xenophobia. We have witnessed the growth of hate speech and a narrative of invasion and threat that stigmatizes migrant people, which is the responsibility of all to oppose. On International Migration Day, we welcome the contribution of migrant persons and stress the urgency of migration policies that have at the centre the protection of the dignity and rights of migrant persons, combating their vulnerabilities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u130	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 380 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — By the immediate distribution of masks to all security forces, private security and prison guards. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote on draft resolution No 384 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Due to the obligation to use protective masks in supermarkets during the pandemic. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the vote in favour of the IL and the abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote together on the requests submitted by the PAN, the PS, the PCP, the ENP, the BE, the PSD and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, on the ground to the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, without voting, within 60 days, respectively, of the Bills Nos 131 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Climate Base Act, 577 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves the Basics of Climate Policy Act, 446 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the basis of climate policy and action, 526 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Climate Policy Framework Act, 578 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Climate Base Act, 598 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Climate Base Act, 605 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Defines the foundations of climate policy and 609 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Basic law of climate policy. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 485 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates and regulates the career as an auxiliary health technician. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 13. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 568 / XIV / 2 is followed. a (PAN) — Defines the general principles relating to the exercise of the profession of health assistant technician. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, like the previous bill, this bill goes down to 13. the Commission. We now vote on the Resolution Project No 614 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a career as an auxiliary health technician. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] Let us also vote for draft resolution No 686 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — replacement and regulation of the career of health assistant technician. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL and Members of PS Alexandra Tavares de Moura and Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution also goes down to 13. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u131	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u132	Not down, Mr. João Oliveira? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u133	Mr President, if I may, since the draft resolution we voted on earlier from the CFP, has been rejected, it is not lower than the committee. It is the only draft resolution that is adopted and therefore does not need to be put down to committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u134	This draft resolution of the Greens is then finally adopted. Thank you very much, Mr João Oliveira. The vote on draft resolution No 610 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Measures to combat violence against health professionals. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 617 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a plan to prevent violence against health professionals at work. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, these two draft resolutions that we have just voted on are down to 9. the Commission. Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 604 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Type of public crime for assaults committed against any public official, in the performance of his or her duties, irrespective of his or her activity and worsening of the criminal frameworks provided for for all conduct of physical integrity offence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues were rejected.]] The general vote of Bill No. 28 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Except for the need to complain and aggravate the criminal framework for crimes committed with violence, in schools and their surroundings and adjacent facilities or against the school community ( Fifty-third amendment to the Penal Code). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, the PAN and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 612 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and respond to violence in the school context. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 527 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government support non-governmental environmental charities in the context of the crisis caused by the pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS and IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 791 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Support for non-governmental environmental charities organisations in the context of the pandemic, economic and social crisis. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, these two draft resolutions are down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u135	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u136	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u137	It is only to inform us that, with regard to the last two votes, we will present a statement of vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u138	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 539 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — For a strategic environmental assessment for strategic mining and environmental assessments in the regions where exploration and research projects of associated lithium and mineral deposits are under way or are planned. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 741 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government create appropriate conditions for the entry of binational couples into Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 774 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government establish measures to ensure that non-married couples are excluded from travel restrictions to Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, these draft resolutions are down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 812 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — recommends that the Government set up measures to ensure the possibility of regrouping families and couples of different nationalities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution is down to 1. the Commission. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, on draft resolutions Nos 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of public services in the municipalities of Odemira and Aljezur and the definition, within a maximum of one year, of the definitive urban solution for the lack of conditional housing supply, 225 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop integrated housing and social responses for agricultural workers within the Mira River perimeter, 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and specific measures to strengthen public services, to increase control and control over the working conditions of agricultural workers and to guarantee decent housing within the Mira River perimeter, and 591 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government amend the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019 of 24 October with a view to safeguarding an effective continuation of public housing policies. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN and abstentions from BE, CDS-PP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u139	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u140	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u141	Mr President, I would like to say that we will deliver a written statement of vote on this vote that we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u142	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u143	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u144	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u145	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. the NAP will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u146	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolution No 194 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement social and environmental responses in regions most affected by intensive and superintensive agricultural crops. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, on draft resolutions No 260 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school( 2 ). o is 3. the cycle) and secondary in Fernão Ferro, 615 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal, 634 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to construct a 2 school. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the Seixal, 637 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Construction of a school of the 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal, 643 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government initiate the procedures for the construction of a basic school for the 2. o is 3. the cycles and for secondary education in the Fernão Ferro parish, 646 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By building a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycle and secondary in the Fernão Ferro parish, in the municipality of Seixal, and 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Construction of a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary education, in the parish of Fernão Ferro. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, paragraphs 49 to 59 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning the plenary meetings of 1. the legislative session of the XIV Legislation held on 30 April, 6, 7, 13, 14, 20, 21, 27 and 28 May and 3 and 4 June 2020. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. It is also important to vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members that Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will give us an account. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion is as follows: « The Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies is of the opinion that there is no basis in the Statute of Deputies for the granting of the required temporary replacement for a relevant reason leading to the suspension of the mandate of Mr André Ventura, paying attention to the option of the legislator, in force since 2009, to delimit the temporary replacement for a relevant reason to the situation framework provided for in Article 5. the Statute. However, and in order to ensure on an equal basis the position of candidates for the Presidency of the Republic, and in accordance with Article 6 ( 1 ). the Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 1976 of 3 May ( which approved the Elections Act for the President of the Republic ), Mr André Ventura has the right to dispensation of duties until the date of election, translating the same in accordance with the Statute of the Deputies, into the automatic justification of shortcomings under the law and without reliance on the express requirement for each of them. Do not keep on seeking. ” The opinion is signed by the rapporteur, Pedro Delgado Alves, and by the Chairman of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies, Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u148	Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PEV, CH and IL, votes against the CDS-PP, PAN and PS Member Isabel Oneto and abstentions by non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u149	Mr President, I would like to leave a note on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u150	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u151	Mr President, as has already been noted, there are some computer difficulties that make voting by the honourable Members difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ascenso Simões has sent a message saying that he votes against this report and its conclusion and that he will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u152	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u153	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u154	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u155	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u156	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. I request the Secretary of the Bureau, Maria da Luz Rosinha, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 616 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 617 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) and 618 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), Parliamentary Assessment No 38 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and Resolution Projects Nos 836 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 838 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 840 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 841 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) and 842 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). They were present at the session, by video conference, Mr. Members of the PSD Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques, of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, who are in prophylactic isolation, Mr. Socialist Party Members Sonia Fertuzinhos and Norberto Patinho and PSD Member Sofia Matos. I think that Mr Jorge Gomes's indication of the PS is missing here. I would ask the Services to check this out. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-01-08.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only necessary to announce the agenda of the next plenary session, which will take place on Wednesday, 13 January, with the appreciation of the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency and their vote at the first item on the agenda, to which political declarations will be followed. Thank you all very much for your participation and cooperation. I wish you a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 53 minutes.]]
