ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let us start this plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The next item is the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 8 to 15 January 2021. To that end, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrite, has the floor to whom I give the floor and to whom I give the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate concerns the report submitted by the Government on an emergency period with very peculiar characteristics. Since March, when Mr. President of the Republic used the state of emergency mechanism as a response to the pandemic situation that we have been facing for the first time before the signs of uncertainty brought by the first references to the need for measures to be taken in the face of the dimension, at the time not fully identified, of the British variant and the circumstance of the next meeting with the specialists — the so-called 'infarmed meetings' — which took place after day 7, Mr. President of the Republic chose - and today I say - well - to fix a specific emergency period of only one week, between day 7 and day 15. This allowed the Government to adopt, from the outset, measures to safeguard the response capacity of the National Health Service ( SNS ), which at the end of the week of 8 and 9 applied restrictive measures to the movement between municipalities and also, according to the evolution of the epidemiological situation, as has been verified, more restrictive measures have been taken since 15 January. During this period there was a first phase of growth in the number of active cases, which increased from 93 000 to 126 000 during this week. There has also been an increase in the incidence, which would unfortunately be marked in the next period, following the European trend. Therefore, what is essential to retain is that during this time the first steps were taken to achieve the objectives of vaccination: first, health professionals, also defining criteria to initiate vaccination of users and household workers. The resilience of the National Health Service has been guaranteed and, above all, the measures have been prepared, which, as we will see in the next debate, are taking effect. But precisely so, it is necessary, with resilience, courage and determination, to give them continuity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u3	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you here too in the presentation of this report. The Minister referred to the vaccination process and also to the new variants that the virus can take, but there is a clear fact: in this state of emergency report, the government still did not have, as an important issue, even schools and their relationship with the pandemic. We all saw what happened after. The government has ignored, after and despite the various warnings, the problem of the virus in schools, its eventual closure and the impact it would have on the lives of young people and students. The government did nothing, and what we had, weeks later, in this state of emergency whose report we are now discussing, was that instead of looking at the problem, it ignored it. But there is also another state of emergency, in addition to that which Mr Minister mentioned here, identifying strains of the virus and vaccination problems, because he was unable to look at the most important data, which is the fact that 45% of hotel and catering companies are in insolvency. That is what a minister of the Republic should come here to tell Parliament. It should be said that solutions have to deal with a problem as serious as this, which sends thousands to unemployment, closes business and destroys families, but more has done than run away, puts himself behind the new variants of the virus, looks at the vaccination process and blames the health authorities. This when we all know that the problem was only one, it was that of the government that did not really prepare and in due course what was going to happen. And schools are the example of the biggest failure of this state of emergency that we have now discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This report refers to a period when the number of cases of infection was close to 9000 per day. And what this report also refers to is that the Portuguese realized that they should reduce contacts and displacements even before the containment measures were implemented, which again confirms the behaviour of the Portuguese, particularly when it was clear that the SNS services were close to the rupture and it was necessary to defuse them so that they could respond to all. Once again, the Portuguese were and are in compliance with the requirements, when they were asked to strengthen their behaviour to protect themselves and protect others. Just look at the relatively small number of counter-ordinations presented here. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what this report does not say is that the Caramulo Health Extension, in Tondela, closed because of a lack of administrative authorities and that a population where several cases and outbreaks occurred in the homes of the elderly was left without the possibility of resorting to medical assistants. The report also does not state that the Souselas Health Centre, in Coimbra, closed due to the lack of technical assistants that allow the normal functioning of administrative services, and that once again the local population was deprived of recourse to proximity health services, even after being included in the State budget the strengthening of human resources so that health centres can fulfil their role of proximity and trust in health services. What this report also does not mention is how the necessary support is being provided to elderly people who are isolated and confined to their homes, often alone or to support other elderly people. It refers to home support, it refers to rapid intervention brigades duly established in all districts, ready to be activated whenever necessary. However, we still do not know what plans are for the elderly who are not institutionalized and who, if in the first months of the pandemic were supported by neighbors, friends and even by associations or support programs of the parish boards, are now forgotten. what this report does not talk about is the support that is being provided to the population in terms of mental health or psychological monitoring in structures such as homes, where users feel increasingly isolated and abandoned by their relatives, or the follow-up that may be provided or strengthened in schools, children and young people who need follow-up, and who are deprived, almost a year ago, of growing free, playing on the street, socializing with their peers, who are deprived of being children. We are waiting for the next report to reflect the concerns that have been examined by the technicians, who have clearly identified that the mental health of the Portuguese is worse and that this is transversal, from the younger to the older.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u7	For an intervention by the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have walked from emergency state to state of emergency, with measures that have been guided more by doubt than by efficiency and efficiency. As we have said several times here, there has not been a line of preventive, strategic, logical or even balanced action. It was now between health measures, between economic and social measures, when the most important was the balance between all. We had good international examples that we could and should have followed, such as that of New Zealand, which took firm measures, involved the community and balanced the social and health sectors. Nor have there been proposals here, of different political forces, where the NAP is included, supported by scientific evidence, but which never, or later, have been heard. We have come here and the feeling is that everything that is now mandatory has already been said for months now, whether the strengthening of health professionals, the closure of schools, the mass testing of the population, including people without symptoms, or border control. So many months to do what could have already been done, and even more, to avoid what could have been avoided. We believe that the lack of consensus among experts and the emergence of so many public opinion makers did not facilitate this process. But there are things that are very clear and the government's obstinacy to manipulate data is one of them. There is a lack of transparency in relation to cases of infections in the school context: incomprehensiblely, while the Ministry of Education indicates 9000 positive cases since the beginning of the school year, the Directorate-General for Health indicates the existence of 50 000 in the same period. The union itself has already presented very different numbers from those of the government, including a visit to the Lisbon Administrative Court for the Ministry of Education to say where there were, after all, cases of COVID-19 in schools. This Report also states that the specialized units integrated into the learning support centres were in operation, but does not mention the various situations of children who did not have the specialized support they needed and of which the Government was fully aware. This report, which, for example, reduces environmental issues to essential water and waste services, also omits the new environmental scourge, which is the undue discard of masks or other PPE(individual protective equipment), a problem that, as we know, will worsen further and that has to be included in the next reports, being urgently the creation of a national system of return, including paid, of disposable masks used and other protection mechanisms, as the PAN has already proposed. This report, despite showing us the black scenario that the culture sector crosses, also omits, for example, data related to cultural activity outside the public sector, or the panorama of other cultural structures or equipment such as dance schools, cinemas or cinemas. Among many other examples of support needs that are omitted here is the omission in support of the older or isolated population. Health crises with data omission and lack of transparency with institutions and communities are not resolved. These political options only generate distrust and discredit the government. Today we know, for example, that the gradualism advocated by the government regarding schools was a mistake. It is time to move on to the front of the virus and, instead of running after it and the damage, at least follow it and have an effective battle plan. There's no lack of information. There's no lack of experience. We need to assume reality and not make the same mistakes in the past. That is what we expect from here on, and that is what the government requires.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u9	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: At the end of almost a year of pandemic we live one of the darkest periods of our democratic history. Emergency state after state of emergency, the conflict between the responsibility to adopt new measures and the duty not to relativise the suspension of rights, freedoms and guarantees grows, day after day. Not understanding the gravity of the moment and denying its exceptionality would be irresponsible. Forget that the emergency should not become normal would not be better. Maintaining scrutiny and constant concern is one of the duties of this same Parliament. Every time the CDS Parliamentary Group supports an emergency state renewal it seeks to do so and today it will not be different. Unfortunately, the repetition of this process has shown us how the reports presented to support the application of each state of emergency are rarely different from each other. You vary in a number, you change a graph, you change a line, but what is true is that many and many elements are still missing. The absence of a single country report, with different indicators for different regions, makes it difficult to present solutions in combat and in the context of pandemic. The annexes of the public authorities do not correspond in any way to the data of the Directorate-General for Health, in particular about the Health Line 24 and the STAYAWAY COVID application. The absence of an annex to the vaccination plan is another worrying example that I want to leave here. With regard to the urgency of scrutiny and more effective support for the business fabric, there is a lack of any data on the impact of what is happening in the economy, which also makes it difficult for the various parliamentary groups to contribute. In international trade, between January and November, we know today that there has been an abrupt fall in exports, in which it is mirrored, in particular, the sudden fall in tourism. The answer to these questions is therefore needed: how can a strategy for the resumption of tourism be drawn up without reference to specific data in these same reports? What preparation has been made, for example, to ensure that safety distances will be respected in public transport when this state of emergency ends? In education, why does the policy of the Directorate-General for Health vary from school to school? Concern about inequality is very vocal in one aspect, but very little practiced in others. The capacity for disinfection and hygiene of each classroom presents very different conditions for this country outside and there are establishments where the temperature is measured and others where this has never been done. There is also a need for more numbers and more efficiency here, because in a modern democracy, there are no first and second schools. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in sport, the slope is the same. We have only 18 % of sports activity at national level, at a time challenging for all, in which physical activity is fundamental to maintaining healthy levels of development. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not work so that when the pandemic ends the country is less unequal, we must do everything to ensure that, until the end of the pandemic, the mechanisms we approve to overcome this period are not, in itself, engines of inequality. It is urgent to prepare for each state of emergency in order to get closer to the one that will be the last, and it is urgent a solution, a support, a path to the 46 billion euros that are in the banking moratoriums, which in time will be a problem for the banking system and, therefore, will also be a problem with the financing of our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u11	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u12	I shall conclude by stressing the social role of our security forces, the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the PSP ( Public Security Police ). It is to all of them and to all of them who are on the front line hospital against the virus that the CDS leaves its warm thanks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u13	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The phase of our life to which this report relates confronts us with the passing of the moment, so far, more serious than this epidemic with which the whole country has been confronted.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u15	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u16	The question on which it is important to reflect is that of the concrete adequacy of the measures that have been taken. If it should be acknowledged that, in certain activities and in certain sectors, it is necessary to adopt some type of measures that pass through the confinement or conditioning of activities, this must, of course, be duly dosed with compensatory measures of those activities or with a proportionality of the appropriate measures. from our point of view, it is unquestionable that there are necessary emergency measures, particularly within the framework of the National Health Service, to ensure response capacity in the face of an unprecedented situation, with regard to the requirements with regard to the increase of testing capacity, considered decisive to combat this epidemic, and as regards the ability to move rapidly with the vaccination of as many people as possible, with particular attention to groups of greater vulnerability and greater risk. That's unquestionable. However, placing the tonic accent almost exclusively on restrictive media is, in our view, the biggest mistake that has been made. Not because there is no recognition of the need for restrictions, but where they are incontrovertible, compensatory measures must be taken. That is to say, it is not enough to think only of confining, confining, confining, as if the solution were going through only that, when action is necessary, in the event of confinement, to guarantee fundamental rights. We are talking about schools, for example, where there have been great hesitations in this matter and even fluctuations in the orientation on it. We all recognize that presenceal education is absolutely essential, but if, at some point, for certain segments of our school population, we recognize that it is necessary to confine, then appropriate measures must be taken. What can't be done is to condemn children and young people to distance learning and they don't, for example, have a internet network in their localities. There are, therefore, issues that need to be reconciled so that the measures can work. It is not possible, for example, to speak only in confining sectors of our entire economy, without taking into account the need to effectively support people whose livelihood depends on these economic activities. We are thinking about situations such as those that occur today, particularly in the bookstore or in the hotel, where there is no alternative, although we are convinced that it was possible to adopt a better proportionality in the containment measures in relation to certain sectors. by recognizing that there are sectors that cannot work, people cannot be left behind, making it only those who live these activities to pay economically the costs of this crisis. That can't be. As has been said, "no one can stay behind" and our fear is that, with the tonic accent that has been placed, very predominantly, on confinement, there are people who are being left behind. That is, from our point of view, unacceptable. We have to fight the disease, but we have to avoid anyone dying from the cure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u18	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : We are on our way to the 12 months of pandemic in the country, we are living a third rough and a second confinement also very heavy for many families and for many sectors of activity. Throughout this time of pandemic, inequalities in the country have worsened, unemployment has increased and poverty has grown. The social crisis is not something that is coming, nor is it something that will happen in the future, it is already here, installed in the house of many families, and every euro that the government refuses to use in social support or in aid to the economy means to aggravate this social crisis. Every euro that the government is fighting or saving to think about the deficit is a further euro to deepen poverty and unemployment. We have already had many debates on state of emergency reports and the state of emergency itself, but in none — and the report under discussion does not — the government explains why it is not using all the means available to combat this social crisis, which exists and is installed in the country. Why is the government exacerbating this crisis? Why do you want to save some euros on the deficit? This is also not explained in this report, but what is certain is that by 2020, for example, the government left EUR 7 billion to be executed. Why? Oh, my God! There was no investment to do in the National Health Service or in the public school? It is difficult to believe that there was no need for investment. Were there no social needs that could be matched with more support? It's very hard to believe it! It's a lie that there was no social needs. Portugal is the third country in the euro area which spends less on combating the crisis. Why? Oh, my God! Is there no crisis in this country? In comparison, is the social crisis lower in Portugal than in other countries? That's not true. There is a crisis in which all resources need to be used, but what we see, for example, is that the social rate of the Internet will, after all, be there for the summer—if one day comes! — perhaps at the speed at which computers arrived for distance teaching; and the social rate of the stock gas, which was to have happened, did not happen after all. In the middle of this, the poorest families do not have the conditions to have children with distance education and continue without the conditions to warm their home. Besides, those who stay at home with their children are losing a third of their income. Knowing this, the government completely refuses to change this situation which is adding crisis to the crisis. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that the crisis is there and that those who do not fight it make it worse. The lack of government measures has only aggravated the crisis and social inequality in this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u20	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is not wrong to say that in recent weeks the government has been long. The government has been misled by some rules of confinement, the closure of trade, the support for restoration, which have ended up, to travel agencies and bookstores, which have never started, and now, at the vaccination level, which is treating particularly ill some doctors and all, or almost all, the police. When there are priority lists, there are no vaccines; when there are vaccines, there are no reservations; when there are needles, there are no syringes; and when there is a little bit of all this, there are no people to trace. [[PS protests.]] This is the phrase that summarizes the government's behavior in recent weeks. of the best results in the world, due to the best government in the world, we have gone to the worst results in the world, but I hope they do not say that it is because of the worst people in the world. I hope you don't say that! It's a little bit of this, sirs. Ministers: The fault was with the English strain, remember? That which Mr. Prime Minister said he did not know, when the whole of Europe was already preventing it and fighting! You haven't met here yet. Either it was the English strain or it was the Portuguese. In fact, let's be serious: were the teachers and the students who didn't want to teach at a distance or the government didn't want to give them this learning because they didn't have computers to distribute? Oh, my God! It was private hospitals, for example, that did not want to help the country or was the government that wanted only public hospitals to display their great capacity — that wonderful state! — to say that the National Health Service is self-sufficient? [[PS protests.]] Was it the Portuguese who made the vaccination plan in the national chacota, this in your view, or was it the government that started working late and badly in this process, delivering it to a PS professional, but an amateur in the function, who then piled up with another? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ministers, as always, the government thinks it was great, despite the disorder and the « saves whoever can». [[Protests of PS Members.]] But we know, Mrs. Ministers, we believe that Mr. Prime Minister has lost his ability to deal with difficult cases and the best proof of this is to keep Mr. Minister of Internal Administration and Mr. Minister of Justice in office, who may have played a role in the politically most indecent cases and who have left the country at the level of the sarjeta with regard to international reputation. [[Protests of PS Members.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to tell you is that the government is in decline, the government is sick and what the country needs is health. I therefore leave an appeal to everyone : Mrs. Ministers, vaccinate and vaccinate Mr. Prime Minister against COVID, but also vaccinate him against the disorientation that is being felt in your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u22	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u23	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: Members of the government, do what needs to be done and end propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u24	You must conclude, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u25	End propaganda, please concentrate on ruling...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u26	You really have to conclude, Mr President, that you have already exceeded your time in a very long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u27	I'm done now, Mr. President. They rule, above all, by helping save lives, because that is where you are and that is also what you serve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u28	I could be talking five minutes and I couldn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u29	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Minister, Minister, Secretary of State : The debate that we resume in this Parliament, and that we resume regularly, should be a debate on the analysis of the measures that are being carried out in compliance with the state of emergency and if there is anything that reveals decline is the quality of language, respect for the other and how we approach a parliamentary debate in one of the most difficult moments in the history of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Carlos Peixoto, we can disagree. More: we must disagree when we disagree, but we must maintain a degree of cordiality and capacity for recognition in the other, not of an enemy, of someone we bow down and insult, but of a person who, having a different opinion, deserves respect because it also represents Portuguese citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That must be the standard in a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u32	Secondly, Mr Peixoto, we can look at reality and disagree about it. We can't create a parallel reality, different. We have a right to different arguments, we have no right to create different facts and diverse facts. Mr. Deputies regularly reviews the story, every five years. But when we saw this debate, he seems to forget that in the past, we understand, consensually, that it would be appropriate to manage the pandemic. What's happening, obviously? The facts, unfortunately, evolve. Unfortunately, the facts get worse. Fortunately, we have access to more information than we had, but we do not always have the results we would like. Why? Because the knowledge of the disease, the knowledge of its evolution, the appearance of new strains, the way in which the disease spreads, obviously, implies that it is necessary to review measures and adapt measures of confinement stronger than in the past that we all agreed were acceptable. We all agreed in this Chamber that defination in the Christmas period was relevant to giving space to the economy to breathe. And, of course, we all agreed because we know — as you well remember. Deputies Antonio Filipe and Moisés Ferreira, recently — that the country suffers immense difficulties. Having had the opportunity, which we thought was visibly and possible, at that time, to also help the economy and give it a chance to breathe, we all agreed with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u33	And where would that be against what I said? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u34	Of course, today, we know that perhaps we should have made a difference. Today, we have data that we did not have at the time, but try to underline this, every week, as a mistake, almost like a desire to do harm on the part of the government, is that we do not feel serious, in view of this debate, and therefore we expect a different way to intervene in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, Mr Peixoto, once again, we can also look at the vaccination process and see only problems in it. We can try to transform what is minority and extraordinarily problematic... and, so that there is no doubt, any abuse, by any citizen, which tries somehow to manipulate or move forward in vaccination priorities is unacceptable for any decent citizen in this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But to do these cases, which are fortunately punctual and are the exception, the rule that characterizes a process of vaccination, which is going through the way it is planned, which, in some respects, is even going through coverage that goes beyond that of some of our European partners and that we all know that there is structural difficulty, which has to do with access to vaccines, which is not a Portuguese problem, is a problem of the European Union, which has to do with what we have already seen to be a problem with access to needles, which Mr President mentioned, which is not a problem today, but which can come to be from here a few weeks or a few months, when we have access to vaccines, it is not a serious way to intervene in this debate. Therefore, do not confuse the anticipation of a problem with a problem that exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u36	Do not confuse issues that are shared by all European States, with issues that would eventually arise from some lack of attention on the part of the Government. That is not serious, in this debate, which is now about the state of emergency report, it is not about these other issues. We have set up a Parliamentary Commission to monitor these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u37	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. in this report, what we have evaluated, and what we have evaluated every fortnight, is how the restriction of fundamental rights has been carried out to Portuguese citizens and whether it is being appropriate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u39	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u40	Fortunately, we will have information that allows us to adjust and fine-tune the state of emergency at the time we authorize it, which is what we will do in the next debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u41	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido, who I use to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is something important, in the context of this debate, it is precisely that it is a debate on the state of emergency report. The state of emergency has a clear intention, clear principles to guide it — proportionality and necessity — and it is a formula that is designed to prevent, in an exceptional context, fundamental rights, rights, freedoms and guarantees from being attacked in a non-proportional manner. Therefore, it is in this context that we are in and it is in this context that the discussion must be made. What the Government insists on referring and reaffirming, at any cost, is that it has always used proportional measures in response to the needs to combat the pandemic. This is even the most important statement of this debate, especially when some begin to say that we should have been non-proportional. That is what we refuse to do: it is not to be proportional to the dangers we face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no obstinacy or intention to manipulate data. We intend to speak clearly, to be clear and to be totally serious about the difficulties and uncertainties we have at every moment. I learned that planning is to prepare the future, conforming it to our expectations and anticipating what are scenarios covered by uncertainty. This is a definition that, when health planning is made, it is soon learned in the first manuals, but the one that was brought to us by the pandemic was an uncertainty that we never imagined. But it was uncertainty that led us to identify a new variant, to recognize its effect and to adapt the measures we had been thinking, according to the needs. We do not know what more variants we will have to face, nor what new circumstances we will have to prepare the Portuguese to give them answers. I would like to reaffirm that the strengthening of human resources, the strengthening of facilities, the strengthening of equipment has been done very intensively throughout this period. For example, throughout this period, which we are discussing today, we have managed to ensure that the National Health Service hosts nearly 500 health professionals. And these health professionals were used to respond in intensive care, in general care, in a set of areas of response to the needs of the population. It was also during that period that we actually took the first steps in the vaccination plan. And no, no, we consider that our vaccination plan is at the level of the language that is being used to characterize it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We believe that there are errors, that there are needs for correction, but we consider that respecting the mental health of Portuguese is to speak with truth and honesty, and not give in to populism, not give in to demagogy, not give in to offensive language and easy argumentation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yesterday, we had 436 000 doses of vaccines inoculated in Portuguese living on the mainland. There were 4, 46 doses per 100 residents on the continent. There were 330 000 people who had already received the first dose and 133 000 people who had already received the second doses of the vaccines.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u43	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u44	This is what we will continue to do: to work with enthusiasm, using the mechanisms we need, at times when we need it, but not going beyond them in their use. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u45	Mr. Carlos Peixoto, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u46	Mr. President, it is for the defence of personal honor, please. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, defence of personal honor, in this sense: either the Minister or...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u47	I'm sorry, I haven't given you the floor yet. First you have to justify why.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u48	Mr. President, it is for the defence of personal honor. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u49	You have to justify why!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u50	Mr President, that was what I was doing and Mr President said he had not given me the floor. I just wanted to say that I asked for the defence of personal honor, because you want Mr.Minister, whether Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, said that I used bad language, offensive language, insulting and overwhelming.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u51	But that is not a matter of personal honor, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u52	Mr. President, I'm sorry, it's exactly a matter of personal honor, because these charges define a personality trait. And I don't want to admit you do that to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u53	Then do your best to defend your personal honor as quickly as you can.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u54	Mr President, very briefly, I just wanted to tell the Minister and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves that they responded to the discomfort of facts and truths with a construction that did not happen and that has to do with what they called 'bad language quality'. If I were the Minister or the honourable Member, I would be less concerned about language and more concerned about the misfortune of the facts and the misfortune of the numbers. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Because, Minister, we have indeed been the worst country in the world on this outcome and are, today, still the worst country in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u55	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u56	That is what the government should focus on, it is not here to point the finger at the Members and the language they use. Let us, in fact, focus on governing. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u57	Mr President, the defence of personal honour should only be granted at the end of the debate, but as we are almost at the end of the debate, the Bureau has agreed to give you the floor at the moment, now speaking to Minister Marta Temido and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, to give the explanations they understand. I begin by giving the floor to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, asking him to use time with parsimony.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u58	Mr. President, I'll be a telegraph. First of all, it seems to me that the qualification of language as being negative or positive does not, in fact, have as an objective to glorify the honor of the person, especially because it is a structural element of the parliamentary debate. I think we can disagree on how we debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u59	Stunning!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u60	It seems to me that the use of the word'sarjeta', which I did not use, is shocking and offensive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think I'm sorry and I'm sorry... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] Exercise is not about which metaphors we learn in primary and secondary schools to qualify certain subjects, and therefore I am not going to enter a stylistic debate on what are the right words. Now, as regards the expressions that you have used in the parliamentary debate, and I believe that everyone would like it to maintain a quality and a level of interaction between people, in terms of cordiality, I reiterate, at all times, all that you have said. Mr President, unfortunately, the quality of the parliamentary debate has deteriorated. I keep exactly what I said. As for the facts to be true, or not, I also repeat what I have said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u61	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u62	I will finish, Mr. President. What I have pointed out is that the facts that you have indicated, either as regards vaccination or as regards the remaining data on pandemic management, can be proved to be false. in this sense, Mr. Member, you can disagree with my assertion, you can prove that they are not true, but I also have sufficient elements to be able to underline and reiterate that the way in which you have demonstrated them...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u63	Show me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u64	The Minister was much more eloquent than I was when she noted the amount of vaccination done in the meantime and the reasons why the vaccination plan has not yet progressed in any other way.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u65	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u66	That is the part of the debate we will disagree with. I don't think I'm messing with your honor anymore, disagreeing with your point.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u67	You have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Health, Martha Fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u68	Mr President, honourable Member, if I have offended you, I apologize to you. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u69	Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u70	Why, sir? Because the first thing they taught me at home was to apologize and because I insist on telling this House that the moment we are going through in Portugal is serious, that we will continue to experience very serious moments, and that at this time the balance between all is very important. As such, I just want to reaffirm that we work — work and work in the Ministry of Health — every day to serve the Portuguese people and that this is our main concern. But we also believe that serving Portuguese is not to compromise and not to be silent in the face of adjectives that we believe are not adequate for the efforts of many to carry out a process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u71	Having passed this incident, we have entered the second item on our agenda, which consists of the debate on the request for the renewal of the state of emergency. It has been distributed to all parliamentary groups and to all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, all the documentation relating to this request for authorization from the Presidency of the Republic has the floor for an intervention by Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recently, by the testimony of a patient COVID-19, after his passage through a hospital where he was a doctor, we heard an inspiring definition of miracle, a lay definition, but not necessarily contradictory to a religious definition, by these words: « miracle is when people, all together, become more intelligent, miracle is when people give up their own individual abilities and can ascend to anything that comes out of the usual». Today, more than ever, we need this civic miracle of social cohesion. The reasons why Socialists vote in favour of this renewal of the state of emergency are dictated by the need to provide the appropriate legal framework for the effort of millions of Portuguese so that no one is forced to give up the future. Let us, however, be clear. To do what needs to be done, we don't need to get into the fundamental law. We do not need to retreat for decades to presidential-initiative governments and the country dispenses constitutionally spousal experiences agitated as fuel of electoral pre-campaigns. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For us, voting the state of emergency is a commitment to the country. So we find it strange that some vote the state of emergency only to then continue with an irresponsible style of party struggle in the current state of the world. For example, to spread that hospitals are a chaos, in addition to being a lie, induces, as we know today, a breach of trust in health services and the deferral of care, which, in addition to unjustified, is harmful. As is trying to discredit the vaccination plan. The vaccines did not arrive late, the vaccines arrived many years before what the past experience would have predicted. All vaccines that arrived to us were administered in less than one week. We want more vaccines, faster? We want to, but without joint action at European level, we would have to wait in line behind the richest and strongest. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week, the educational activities began again. Schools know well that there is no computer education, without human relations, and they have prepared themselves. Schools now have a wider margin of decision on students who, even on a non-presental basis, must be supported with a variable number of school trips per week, depending on risk situations, special needs or when learning is impractical at a distance. However, digital remains a necessary tool. Therefore, 100 000 kits of equipment and connectivity have already been delivered, prioritising the most deprived ones, with free access to the network for educational use, plus 2 GB of data per month, for free use. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Previously, competitions for refinancing of municipalities for digital school had already been made viable, including a retroactive coverage of the 2020 effort. There are no government computers, no cameras, no education computers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u74	The Government continues to work to deliver the other 335 000 computers already purchased, which has not yet been achieved due to serious disturbances in international production and transport. A single example for those who are distracted: it is estimated that, within the United States alone, one million containers are now fixed. But nothing prevents the demagogues from speaking as if the Prime Minister was guilty, because it was the Prime Minister who gave voice to our collective ambition to equip all students and all teachers with digital tools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That work didn't start now. In the previous legislation, we significantly strengthened the school network, improving access. The Digital School was in progress, fulfilling the Government Programme. Since the first day of the first confinement that the Ministry of Education has invested heavily in supporting schools, for the best use of digital education. We invested in teachers: between April and June, 3000 teachers from all over the country attended certified training on digital and networked teaching. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the new training plan is under way, within which 90 000 teachers have already diagnosed digital skills. Some people think this is all nothing. However, I am glad that those who, a short time ago, were against free school textbooks for everyone, now, already want school computers and connectivity for everyone—yet well! Sometimes political opportunism seems to be the only spring capable of waving the immobilism of some.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u76	For our part, in the Socialist Party, we continue to fight against the new and old inequalities, of course, when they reach the younger ones, and we will not deviate from the essential — neither in time of pandemic, nor at any time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u77	For an intervention, Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us repeat today the democratic act of renewing the state of emergency. Despite this, and as it has always done since the beginning of the COVID-19, the PSD supports its extension because it is perfectly aware that the grave situation that the country is going through leaves no other possibility, to whom it is responsible for the alternative to the current government. We never allowed ourselves to be led to an irresponsible vote, led by tactical options that subordinate national interest to party objectives. What would it be for Portugal if the PSD had also voted against the state of emergency? The country would be, from a health, economic and social point of view, in an even more deplorable situation, and the Government would surely be blaming Parliament for not having made available the means necessary for a fight in which we must all assume our share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is this share that the PSD has assumed in full, but that, as far as the government is concerned, it is clear that it has been far from being able to comply with what is legitimately required of it. If Portugal has been the worst in the world in fighting the pandemic, it is because those who govern us have not been fully up to the responsibilities that they have been called to assume. [[PSD applause.]] We failed to plan the second wave, which meant that it would almost join a third wave of absolutely dramatic dimensions. We were slow to contain and, when we did, we were dragging the measures, slowly and too gradually. We have kept the schools open beyond the acceptable, and today it is clear that they are one of the main sources of social contact.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u81	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u82	Just look at the current deceleration of the number of contagios, to see what we could have avoided, if there had been more sense of reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u83	It's about mobility!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u84	And in this chapter, we will not certainly be the best in the world, when, properly and in a timely manner, we do not prepare schools for distance teaching, penalizing our young people beyond what is necessary. We also failed to start the vaccination process by distributing the doses in a very low way and thus placing too many leftovers in the sphere of decision-making of people with weak ethical sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u85	Ignorant!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u86	Mr President, here we will draw attention to the mistakes that have been made, as a first intention, to encourage your correction and the consequent improvement of government action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u88	It is important that the government better plan its actions, based on clearly defined objectives, from saving lives and suffering to Portuguese. We will never be able to reach the established vaccination targets and the defense of our economy, if we are not able to start vaccination faster than what has been done so far. For this, we need to create, in time and time, many more vaccination sites than those that currently exist, which requires an effective and competent articulation with all authorities. For this, transparency is also needed, and it is absolutely crucial that the Executive inform us on a daily basis about the number of already vaccinated citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u90	For this reason, the Government must also reiterate its continued concern about political propaganda for election campaign times and not for this dramatic moment that the Portuguese are facing. Because at this difficult time, it is time for all of us to assume our responsibilities, on behalf of our lives that we can help save, and in respect for the commendable sacrifice that many health professionals are doing for Portugal. We all know to be aware of the example that we are receiving from them. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u91	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The confinement is starting to work. We knew that it would be, that confinement is the most effective way to combat the spread of the virus—only those who deny science could say otherwise. But we also know that confinement has enormous economic and social costs, in the mental health of the population and in the development of our children and young people. And these are the effects that should and should be guarded. Let's go somewhere. The National Health Service was taken to the extreme of its capabilities. Professionals, already exhausted from months of fighting the pandemic, have sought forces to their enormous dedication to others. We owe them a lot. Above all, we must have been them and those who had to resolve the government's lack of preparation to face the third pandemic wave and who saw, like no one, that the government preferred to import health professionals from the private sector. The government began the year promising to test, track and vaccinate. We realized the promises were empty. He didn't test as he should, running after the virus and never in front of him. Since November, you have been authorized by this House to strengthen the tracking teams, but everything continues more or less as it was. Vaccination guarantees, beyond the defaults and illegalities that have always had a late response, hinder the inability of the European Union to achieve only that the private will comply with the agreements and contracts for the delivery of the vaccines that have already been paid. The school year, which they told us was prepared, is another example of how the government did not prevent it. The classes were interrupted because the school was not prepared for distance teaching. The classes have now been resumed in a non-presental model and the problems continue there. We owe a lot to teachers and teachers, who have shown that public school is much more resilient than the lack of operation of the ministry than guardianship.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u94	And we know that the missing investment in the National Health Service and its professionals, home and computer screenings for public school, in the small social support that leaves thousands of people out of the country or in the ever late economic support, we know, said, that the money for this investment never came out of the Ministry of Finance. The money exists and the government was authorized to carry out this investment, but it did not. And the question that remains is, why? Why did the government not help the country, as it could and should, in this brutal crisis? In 2020, it was EUR 7 billion that the government kept in the drawer. With this, inequality and poverty have increased. Now, at a time when the new confinement makes it difficult for the country, people and the economy, what will the government do? Unfortunately, judging by the recent answers of the Minister for Finance, we see that there is nothing structural that wants to change, so the problems of government and its action remain. In the midst of this huge crisis, the last thing the country needs is an austere government, which wants to be the champion of the little ones at the expense of people's living conditions. That is why, recognizing the need for the state of emergency to contain the pandemic, we will abstain from today's vote. In addition to confinement, it is necessary to take care of the country, the people, the economy and the public services—and here are the failures and failures of the government. To answer the question where the government is failing, we proposed parliamentary assessments of the state of emergency decrees and we put forward essential proposals to combat the inequalities that are worsening. So by next week, it will be time to ensure that no one stays behind. We will therefore propose the payment to 100 % of all those who have to stay at home, because the schools have been closed. We will allow anyone in telework to choose between working or staying with their children, eliminating an incomprehensible inequality that the government has invented. And, as it cannot fail to be, this support must be extended to those who have to care for the people who have been left without the social responses, such as those of the day centres that have now closed. We propose the automatic extension of unemployment and social unemployment allowances for all those who have fallen into the limbo created by the government and who, having completed the right to these subsidies at the end of last year, have been left without any support. in the same way, we will clarify the access of green receipts to existing support, ending with the confusion installed, as well as we intend to eliminate the current discrimination of management partners. A government that saves delivering the victims to the crisis is failing in essential responses. That is why we must do better by not giving in to inequalities, nor by accepting the impoverishment of the country. This will be the proposal of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u95	For the CFP's Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The state of emergency and confinement are exceptional, they are not a solution. The extension of the current situation is unsustainable both because of the economic and social problems which result in employment, in particular for the health reasons of the whole population. The situation in which more than one million families are located is unsustainable, many of them subject to telework, with their children at home in distance education or their guardianship. Restrictive measures and confinement have profound and very negative consequences in the general conditions of Portuguese health, including mental health and with particular concern for children and young people and also for the elderly. They have consequences for the destruction of employment, the loss of wages and income of families, the degradation of living conditions, the difficulties of access to goods and services. It is not acceptable for these consequences to be devalued and if you want to give the idea that Portugal can continue indefinitely in a state of emergency and in a state of confinement. Therefore, we insist, the state of emergency and confinement are exception, they are no solution. Portugal needs to find an effective response that passes through the epidemic immediately and prevents its growth in the future, taking appropriate health measures, but also balanced with regard to its economic and social impacts. Advance with vaccination, increase and plan contact screening and testing and strengthen SNS health professionals, on the one hand, and protect workers who continue to work, defend employment, support unemployed and SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and move forward with measures that enable them to open, as quickly as possible, and in health security, the activities that have been closed, including schools, cultural and sporting activities, restoration and trade, on the other hand, are the main priorities to be considered in the face of the situation we live and the challenges we face. In the health plan, priority must be to stop the epidemic immediately and create conditions so that the uncontrollability of its spread does not repeat in the future. The vaccination and strengthening of the public health teams we have been talking about since March 2020, teams responsible for the work of identifying, insulating and testing contacts are fundamental elements of the response we need right now, but we also need in the future to ensure that the situation is not out of control. Progress in vaccination is, in fact, one of the most relevant elements for Portuguese to face the future with greater confidence. What is the government going to do about the lack of vaccines due to the lack of production capacity and refusal to suspend patents by pharmacists with whom the European Union has made the contracts that have now joined our country? Will the Government move forward with measures to diversify the purchase of vaccines, ensuring their availability in safety and efficacy conditions so that the objectives set out in the vaccination plan are met? At the economic and social level, priorities are not different today from what they were before. It is necessary to ensure the health protection of those who continue to work at present, particularly in essential services, whether they are travelling to work or in their own workplaces. Support for the maintenance of employment, the payment of 100% wages, support for the unemployed, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, partners, informal workers and with precarious links, families with children in their care and those most in need of support must be implemented. It was, moreover, with this objective that we scheduled for the next 18th day the discussion of the legal decrees which the Government had adopted in relation to social support and measures in the field of educational activities. contrary to what happened to the 2020 Supplementary Budget, which only served to keep wages cut and tax off large companies, the State Budget for 2021 has the basis that the government needs to respond to the situation we live in. The government must give it to her. Finally, Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is now necessary to prepare for the exit of the state of emergency and confinement, defining the conditions and rules of health security so that economic, social, cultural and sporting life is resumed and giving the Portuguese the elements of confidence they need to face and schedule their future. The repeated use of restrictive measures, the state of emergency, the announcements of chaos, the instigation of panic and the propaganda of fear are dangerously leading to the desensitization of people and the relativization of measures and behaviours that really need to be considered. The CFP will not spare any effort in the denunciation of these options and in the fight against their disastrous results, irrespective of who they are or who they are. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u97	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have discussed today the seventh state of emergency renewal since 9 November. It is many months in which we live in a chimera of freedom because, gradually, the pandemic situation has worsened rather than improving. We have heard many health experts and there is no doubt about what brought us here — the English variant was a justification, but it is not a single explanation: it was the relief of restrictions on Christmas; the narrative of immediate vaccination; the lack of coordination and means on the ground; the fear of not contracting capacity with the private and social sectors; the resistance to read the signs, the lack of anticipation and the delay in deciding for firm measures, even though difficult, such as the closure of schools. We are in a severe confinement, which could have been avoided, but which has become forced in front of hospitals without beds, rows of ambulances to the door, patients diverted from the continent to the islands, the request for aid to Germany and 8300 dead since the beginning of the year. at the end of these 15 days, the effects of this lockdown begin to feel, but we still have more than 123 000 active cases and intensive care under very high pressure, so experts agree that it is not yet the time to alleviate the measures, in this very difficult balance between lost lives and disorientated lives. Mr President of the Republic proposed to this Parliament a draft decree correcting some injustices, such as banning the sale of books in open commercial establishments and requiring a phased plan for reopening schools on the basis of objective criteria and respecting public health plans. The CDS will vote in favour of this emergency state renewal decree precisely because we understand that the pandemic is still uncontrolled and that restrictive measures are necessary to save lives and prevent more Portuguese from suffering at the hands of this virus. But the government must realize that renewing the state of emergency also means renewing support for companies — restaurants, commerce, small businesses, cultural sectors, among many others — which are forced to remain closed. It is not acceptable, for example, for the APOIAR programme to run out of money when the companies need the most, it means drawing easy access measures, unlike the layoff which, in relation to other European countries, was one of the most demanding and restrictive for businesses and workers. It also involves providing social support when someone in a family is obliged to suspend work to care for their children; ensuring that students and teachers need the conditions they now need to teach and learn, without vain promises, but by agitating all means and taking particular care of students with greater difficulties, for which the school may have to open doors and complete the vaccination of the most vulnerable, ensuring all the conditions and processes for phase II — an operation of greater scale and capillary, without margin for new failures. This is also the time of the Government to plan and anticipate future defination, avoiding past errors: assuming gradualism as a rule; determining the time to relieve restrictions based on the number of active cases and new contagios, the rate of transmission, the percentage of positivity of tests and pressure on admissions; applying massive testing, with expanded capacity and wide spectrum criteria for detecting all positive cases; ensuring that cases are followed within 24 hours, with epidemiological surveys, comprehensive tracking of contacts and successful prophylactic isolations; defining a plan for recovery of non-COVID care activity, using the whole health system, shoulder to shoulder; adjusting the school year to a gradual return, even though this implies changes in the calendar of examinations and access to higher education, with particular attention to mitigating inequalities. Professor Manuel Carmo Gomes said last Tuesday at Infarmed: « There must be a step back and assume that we are doing something that is not right. And this is a good time to do it because cases are coming down. It is not time to throw rockets and hit palms, it is time to rethink, because we do not want a fourth wave, and a fourth wave is there around the corner.' Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of emergency we are voting today is not yet the last, but if this planning and anticipation work is not done at this time, which is due, the risk is a fourth wave, of returning to a state of disaster in hospitals, schools, businesses and families, in our lives. And the question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is the Government willing to reconsider not to repeat the mistakes of the past?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u99	For the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present: We are discussing today the renewal of the state of emergency, at a time when the data are known to all and when we well know that it is the only alternative to the current epidemiological situation. But we also know the devastating effect this confinement has. Moreover, since September the signs were in sight: the complicated situation and we have facilitated, we did not anticipate, we did not act, and this had costs that we paid with the restrictions that we are currently subject to, to more than that which is the impact and the social and economic crisis that we are all going through, along with the isolation of the population, especially the older or the younger, including at the level of mental health. The absence of timely measures, as well as assertive communication and management, did not serve either the economy or what was in fact intended to safeguard: health and combat the health crisis. For example, in relation to the National Health Service, they are aware of the importance of ensuring all the necessary means for SNS, this Parliament, has increased to EUR 6 billion the ceilings for public investment expenditure, but the government has fallen short in terms of implementation and of the measures that the context we live requires, having made only a residual increase of EUR 170 million compared to 2019, in terms of the implementation of this same value. A value that is less than half—see — than it has saved itself from debt interest and, unfortunately, when the Portuguese health was required to be the priority, the government was faithful to itself and stubbornly continued to place the debt and control of the deficit in front of people and their health. And if all of this was bad and showed a lack of preparation, the perfect storm arose with the spread of new strains allied to the government's stubbornness to keep schools open just because it didn't ensure the so-called digital transition. As we have already been reminded, we are actually going through one of the most difficult moments of the health crisis. For this reason, the sacrifice that is being asked to the Portuguese, including our children and young people, due to the abrupt closure of schools, has yielded results, because we are having an effective reduction in the number of infected, hospitalized and killed, and it immediately meant a fall of 7, 8 % in the number of cases. But this sacrifice which is being demanded cannot be unaccompanied — we have said it and said it again — of economic and social measures to support people and businesses, in a timely and unbureaucratized manner, under the penalty of, together with a health crisis, we also have an unprecedented financial and social overthrow, even with very serious consequences in social inequalities, which are already being experienced. But even with these signs of hope and with the vaccination to be carried out, the virus, with its new strains, remains dangerous and our hospitals are still in a state of rupture, so, even taking into account all these social and economic concerns, we cannot yet lower the guard or, unfortunately, relieve the restrictions. That is why it is as important as confinement is the way we plan to get out of it, the way it begins to prepare a balanced and structured defination, duly supported by scientific evidence and what it can help us to take these steps, under the penalty of lying down on earth everything has been achieved and we do not leave this vicious circle in which we find ourselves confined-defination. It is more than clear that at this time there has already been a loss of control over the monitoring of transmission chains. Therefore, in order to ease confinement and defination, it is important to ensure that, as soon as possible, the mass testing of the population is done, at least with rapid tests, accompanied by a network of early surveillance and communication and equipped with human resources with competences for this purpose, as the NAP and the World Health Organization itself have defended since May of last year. We also need clear and assertive communication, which involves the community and has the courage to tell people, without rodeos and pedagogically, which are the red lines that cannot be exceeded. Furthermore, as in March and April last year, in which we had a united country that mobilized to bring down the epidemiological curve with a collective objective, we must now have a united country that, at the time of defination, mobilizes around new objectives, from the beginning to lower the R, the rate of positivity and, above all, make the number of cases not greater than 2000 per day. We must be able to make the people realize that what will be banned or allowed from here forward will depend on not leaving any of these objectives to be met and not exceeding any of these red lines. But responsibility cannot be transferred only to individual effort. the Government is required not to repeat the errors of 2020, to comply with the budget, to place people, their health and well-being in front of anything else. the government requires that what is planned in the budget be implemented, as it can be sufficient to act and halt the economic and social impacts of this second confinement. It has now been announced, for example, that large surfaces will be able to resell books. But what will it be from the small booksellers or publishers of our country, some of them even historical, who have already closed their doors? What support will there be for these sectors? Or for the culture or audiovisual sector, where we currently have professionals starving? It is not clear how, for example in the tourism or restoration sector, which are with the rope in the throat, there has not been an extension of banking moratoriums, as proposed by the NAP, or which have not been given extraordinary tax benefits at the head of IRC (tax on the income of the public) to small and medium-sized enterprises. These are just some of the many examples...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u101	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u102	I conclude now, Mr President. As I said, these are just some of the many examples of the support the government has to give, including to parents and mothers with lower incomes and who are in telework and caring for their children. To fulfill what is in the Budget and to spend all that the Budget allows for support for families and the economy is what is required at this time. It will help us to be the "good student" of Brussels if we do not know how to respect mathematics and fail in all the accounts that we have to deal with with the people and the economy of this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u103	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The renewal of the state of emergency comes back to the consideration of this House and the Greens continue to ignore the usefulness of this declaration. We discussed after a peak of cases of infection by the COVID-19 of a dimension that we did not imagine and after once again the National Health Service had been tested and had answered, with difficulties, it is true, to the needs of the Portuguese. So once again, allow me to greet all health professionals who have been working for almost a year, responding to needs, leaving their personal lives suspended, so that no one will be left without health care. The Portuguese were once again called to protect themselves, to protect the other, to respond to this call, and the numbers of people infected by COVID-19 have fallen, allowing the SNS to now have a discharge. It is of no use to throw the blame on those who just continued to live, to work, to ensure that the country would not stop, whether at the beginning of the pandemic, in the summer, or at Christmas. They promised some that the pandemic would change the human being, that we would get stronger from this complex moment. But neither did the state of emergency prohibit the pandemic from being used to feed the greed of some. The profit of a few remains the path chosen by the system. The profit in front of the people's health, increasing the gap between rich and poor countries. Looks like the virus hasn't changed anything, it just left the features of the system we live in naked. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can even risk saying that the only thing that has come down was the number of infected people, the other problems that the state of emergency is that they continue to grow. The mental health of Portuguese has worsened, presenting itself as a cross-cutting issue, from the younger to the older. And we still don't understand what strengthening mental health is, what investment is being made, what reinforcement is being done by technicians and specialists able to make the diagnosis in a timely manner, and it is not allowed to turn into a problem without dimension that the SNS will have to answer as possible. The confidence of Portuguese because of vaccination has increased, but the doses already paid fear not to arrive. It has increased the confidence of Portuguese in the vaccine, but for the exemplary completion of the vaccination plan it is necessary for all doses of already paid vaccines to reach the country, that the conditions for the application of the vaccine to the Portuguese are planned region, involving, if necessary, the authorities for the contact with the populations, and it is even more necessary for Portugal to assess the possibility of buying more vaccines to other suppliers and to stop being dependent only on Brussels decisions and political options. The emergency is in support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for over 90 % of Portuguese companies, so that they survive, so that jobs are guaranteed, so that the consequences of this pandemic do not reflect only and always on them. Today, The Greens also want to remember and greet all the professionals who guarantee that the country does not stop, who work so that we can all have food at the table; that they ensure the production of goods and services, even if this has two more subjects to infection; that they have been limited in the use of public transport because, as schools are closed, in many localities the option was to reduce the hours, preventing the right to mobility. Students, who are limited in their freedom of learning and of physical and mental development, are now dependent on having technological material for loan, so that they can have access to a basic right, being, for the second school year, subject to increasing the problems of inequality that we all know. The urgency is to identify the difficulties that children and young people are feeling and working to overcome these difficulties in returning to schools. It is urgent to re-qualify schools and ensure technological means, strengthen professionals in various areas, because it is not just the curricula that have to be fulfilled. The commitment must be fulfilled not to allow children and young people not to carry out the masts that the pandemic has caused and will still provoke in the future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u105	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When this pandemic began, we promised that we would leave no one behind, but we would. We have left behind the small trade, which today sinks into incomes that cannot afford; we have left behind travel agencies, security, events; we have left behind our security forces and the Armed Forces; we have left behind the restoration—we know today that 60% are in insolvency and thousands are no longer able to pay the wages. In view of this, we remain silent. The devastating silence of a pandemic that does not look at means or people, but has come to destroy, with the passing of the government, the Portuguese economic fabric. In the middle of this, we no longer have money for APOIAR.PT nor for APOIAR RESTORATION. And we look at unbelievers for what the future is. We all left behind. No, we didn't all leave it behind. We did not leave behind those autarchs who cheated on the vaccination process, many of them socialist governors, who passed ahead of those who should have been vaccinated, as we knew, still today, had happened in the City Hall of Lisbon. No, they didn't all stay behind, because some of them went zigzag to see if they were wrong. I hope they will finish where they should end up, with the state putting them in jail, because that is why Portugal serves, to give an example of a rule of law. We left the firemen for vaccination. And now we tell the cops that there's a plan that's in progress. And this Minister of Internal Administration says the plan is about to end. We know that we have gone to a democracy with failures; we have lost the notion and catalogue of full democracy. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Socialist Party today spoke of the "miracle". I will also speak to you of a Biblical expression, which says "He who keeps you will never sleep." And we know that the Portuguese Government is not always sleeping, as no one keeps us from the impending catastrophe that approaches Portugal. What has happened is a government of Portugal looking to the side as it dies, looking to the side as the failures increase, looking to the side while those who fight in the front line lose the notion of what it is to fight for Portugal! Shame on us, shame of Parliament and shame of government, who cannot give a red card when the government throws us to one of the greatest catastrophes in our history! We have to change, and if we cannot change our shame, we will be responsible for keeping this government in office! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u107	This is an evangelical pastor!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u108	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u109	Mr President, Mr Minister of Internal Administration, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This state of emergency renewal occurs at a time when some say something seems to be changing. There are signs of change in the test plan, in the coordination of vaccination, in the organization of screening. Until the appeal and cooperation of the private is finally praised, in an exercise of hypocrisy that no longer scares us. There is something that should be made very clear from now on: these signs are not a real change and are insufficient to reverse the disastrous conduct of the fight against this pandemic by the Government. This fight does not become miraculously effective with small adjustments. There is a need for substantive changes based on a strategy other than that which has so far been followed. It's time we stopped running after this virus. It is time to stop being constantly surprised by the evolution of the pandemic from the "Portuguese miracle" to the "worst of the world" and, in any case, without plausible explanation. It is time to break this cycle without connection, border, decomfinite and confine and that is not only destroying the economy, it is deeply affecting the social fabric and mental health of the Portuguese. It is therefore time to take real, profound changes in the strategy to combat the pandemic, in line with the draft resolution presented by the Liberal Initiative almost two weeks ago. The test doesn't just need to be extended, it needs to be massive, systematic and regular, taking advantage of the speed and low cost of rapid tests. It cannot be limited to the symptomatics or contacts of the infected, it has to cover the whole population, beginning with the most susceptible and contexts most conducive to infection. But testing without trace of anything is worth it. It is therefore essential to strengthen the teams responsible for epidemiological investigations so that they can identify transmission chains and isolate those who must be isolated in good time. And if some corporate interests are blocking the reinforcement of tracking teams, they identify themselves and go beyond them, because that depends on the success we need. And in vaccination you need more than order at home. We need to speed up the pace, speed up the pace a lot, as soon as there is stock of vaccines. Each month that one can anticipate group immunity is thousands of lives that are saved. It must be understood why the Government rejected the proposal of the Technical Commission for Vaccination to extend the interval between the first and second dose. It is necessary to understand whether the too complex criteria are causing delays in the process or causing abuses.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u110	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u111	All of this is needed, and none of this is answered by the presidential decree. It is true that this time it incorporates three measures which the Liberal Initiative has raised with the President of the Republic : it ends with the ban on the sale of books, requires the Government to prepare for the return to present education and ceases to prohibit the travels of exchange students, such as those of Erasmus. We welcome these improvements, but they are not enough. This renewal decree continues to be filled with useless prohibitions and excessive powers. Mr President — You really have to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. As we have stated from the outset, the Liberal Initiative is in favour of effective measures to combat the pandemic, but it is contrary to this state of emergency. Mr President — For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor. I would like to inform you that there is already more than enough quorum to proceed to the vote, since 223 are registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no health without mental health and we are nothing more than the second country in Europe where there is a higher prevalence of psychiatric diseases. So it is necessary, in fact, to anticipate a pandemic of mental illness. And this will require something: it will require us to review the specific targets for regional plans and for the National Mental Health Plan; it will require us to strengthen local mental health services; it will require us to immediately hire medical staff and non-medical personnel, to ensure a multidisciplinary work in the effective fight against mental diseases; it will also require us to ensure the monitoring and continuity of the care and rehabilitation of our users. Mental illnesses are incapacitating. Depression affects nothing more than 20 % of the population. So, in the context of combating the pandemic, there is a need for greater emphasis and greater investment in mental health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u114	You now have the floor to Mrs Rodrigues who did not register Cristina Rodrigues for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Fortunately, they have already begun to feel the effects of confinement. I would like this improvement to give us strength to continue on the path of recovery of the health crisis, justifying the approval of another state of emergency. However, I cannot fail to highlight the situation of the culture sector, which has always been neglected and which has also been, now, one of the most affected, without having deserved attention from the Government, so far. « Guarantee Culture » is the name given to the programme, presented by the Government, for the salvation of the sector. And from now on, we hope that this support will not have the same destination as the 30 million announced for cultural programming by the municipal chambers, the result of which is unknown. There is therefore a need for transparency in the allocation of this or any other support. The sum of EUR 42 million, promptly announced on 14 January, remains in the drawer. Apparently, applications for access to support will only be evaluated in March, completely ignoring the immediate needs of these citizens, who have not been able to work for almost a year. Support is needed for yesterday and not for a few weeks. This support, which reflects the reduced way in which the Government faces the resolution of existing problems with regard to recreational industries, tries to divert attention from the fact that there has been almost a total lack of concrete measures in 2020, which has created a deep gap in the lives of thousands of workers, whose precariousness will hardly be opposed over the next few years, making the lack of social protection evident. The appeals of the industry professionals have been constant, warning that support does not reach everyone and that there are those who are starving. We can't ignore these calls, we can't let your professionals give up, we can't let culture be cancelled. The loss of cultural production means a loss of critical sense, of promoting individual and collective thought and freedoms, representing an intellectual and social stagnation. It is the professionals of culture, who promote and protect both material and immaterial heritage, which define us as society. It is urgent to safeguard the present to ensure the future of culture in Portugal. [[Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Joacine Katar Moreira did not sign up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u116	To put an end to this debate, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since almost one year since March 2020, this is the first tenth emergency period which, at the initiative of the President of the Republic, we are called upon to appreciate. And since the beginning of November we have come to appreciate successive state of emergency declarations, which have been extended within the framework of what is the largest global pandemic, in the context of what is an epidemic that marks today, in the European framework, more than 20 million people, about half a million citizens only from the countries of the European Union and the associated States. That is why, at this time, when we check the adequacy of the measures taken in response to the most difficult month of this pandemic in Portugal, it is essential that we do not confuse ourselves with a serious response involving all the organs of sovereignty: solidarity with the professionals of the National Health Service, the national cohesion necessary to face times that are difficult, but today we can see that the results begin to be in sight. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, being fully aware of the size that marked the month of January, by the number of fatal victims, by the number of cases verified, by the pressure placed in the National Health Service, determined us to mobilize efforts, the mobilization of human resources, technicians, a union around what was the answer to save lives, to ensure the resilience of health institutions, we cannot, in this matter, be here today, to vote for the state of emergency when a few days ago what we called into question was the need for further measures: if the establishments were to open, for more hours, or be closed, in the emergency framework; if we should establish limits to movement or if that was an unacceptable restriction of fundamental rights. No, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we are looking at today is that the Government has responded to what is the impact that has been seen throughout Europe, and that, by the size of new variants, it has determined us to adopt additional measures, measures which corresponded to a significant confinement, a new closure of schools, the establishment of restrictions on movement, a general recommendation of stay at home, the establishment of replacement of land border controls with Spain, the adoption of additional measures, the requirement of tests or quarantines to those who arrive in Portugal by air or even the establishment of a general principle of self-confinition. It is in this framework that the most fragile are the priority of the government's action, and hence the priority given to support the maintenance of income levels, with employment support measures, with layoff, with the extension of the unemployment allowance, with the social measures aimed at supporting self-employed workers, managers and individual entrepreneurs. It is in this framework that we respond to the pandemic, ensuring hope in the recovery of the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why all national means determine the greater mobilization of means of support for the economy, such as the mobilization of means which the Portuguese Presidency has endeavoured to achieve this week's approval by the European Parliament of mobilisation of resources, which will allow the approval of national recovery and resilience plans. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is how we respond to health and look at the future to, in advance, defend the economy. We are aware that the month of January has brought us to particularly complex levels of impact of this pandemic and, therefore, today, here, we must realistically recognise that the decisions made two weeks ago are producing effects and that our only answer is to continue with national cohesion, with steel nerves, with solidarity for the workers of the National Health Service. Therefore, we can now verify, from a peak of active cases located at the end of January, that in these 15 days we have dropped from 181,000 to 118 000 active cases, which means 35 % reduction in 12 days in this emergency period. During this period, we began to reflect the level of admissions, lowering the number of inpatients with VOCID in hospitals by 18 %. In addition to intensive care, we began to verify encouraging results, such as the reduction of about 8 % in relation to the peak at the beginning of this month, more precisely 7 %, 5 % reduction in intensive care admissions. What's the answer? Continue this effort. Only this determination will allow us to take further what is inflexion with regard to still very high incidence levels. That is why it is so important that the vaccination effort, which I have seen here, is being dealt with by some of the Members who have spoken in this debate in a light manner. Portugal does not have a secret vaccination agenda. Mr Rui Rio, until today at 8 a.m. and 30 minutes, 433 546 doses of vaccines have been applied. It was 303 000 Portuguese who received the first dose and 133 000 who received the second dose and completed their vaccination process. This is the transparency of those who have set clear rules and priorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Tell us here who they left behind! It was the health staff, which was the first priority? Oh, my God! Were the residents in the homes, who immediately followed as a priority in vaccination, leading to approximately 90 % of the workers and household users being vaccinated to date? Oh, my God! The availability of three different types of vaccines has now allowed us to start new patamares, calling to vaccination those who are over 80 years old and those who are over 50 years old and referred comorbidities. And it allowed us today, without leaving anyone behind, to start vaccination of people who perform essential functions of the State, starting the vaccination process of 15 000 firefighters, because without firefighters the patients will not reach hospitals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way, we are going to initiate, still this week, the vaccination of the Republican National Guard and police officers, who have courageously ensured the safeguarding of fundamental rights and respect for the rules of the state of emergency. It is in this framework, with a given response in support of the economy, with the mobilization of resources from the public sector, but also from the private sector and the social sector in health, with an advance of vaccination that will grow as much as we have available vaccines, with the link with local authorities mobilized by the regional and local civil protection structures, that the approval, today, of this emergency state period creates our determination not to make easy comments, after the verification of the response that they did not give and did not anticipate, but to mobilise all Portuguese, all political decision makers for a response to the pandemic in democracy, ensuring hope for the rapid resumption of the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very high deliberation quorum, with 225 Members and Members. registered Members, and we shall therefore proceed immediately to the vote on the request for authorisation, requested by the President of the Republic, for the renewal of the state of emergency declaration. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next item on our agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us an account of some file. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u119	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the Bills No. 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 663 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 664 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 665 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 667 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 668 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 669 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 670 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 671 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 672 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 673 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Secondly, I refer to Parliamentary Appreciations Nos 42 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 43 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). Finally, I inform you that the Resolution Projects Nos 913 / XIV / 2 have also entered the Bureau. a (PEV), 914 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 915 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 917 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 918 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 919 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 920 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 921 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 922 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 923 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 924 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 925 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 926 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 927 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 928 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 929 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 930 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 931 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 932 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 933 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 934 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 12. the Commission, 935 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 936 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 937 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 938 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 939 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 940 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 941 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 942 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 12. the Commission, and 943 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for this reading effort. Before we begin the third point of our agenda, I would like to congratulate the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, yes, we will begin the joint debate, in general, of the Bill No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other tax benefits and creates an extraordinary measure of time-counting within the framework of the IRC and the Bill No 615 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, clarifying the criteria for granting benefits to licensed entities in the Madeira Free Zone. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The bill we have before us today deals with three issues. First, it deals with a set of tax benefits whose duration is limited to five years, in accordance with the Financial Benefits Statute. In its overwhelming majority, these are tax benefits that have already been renewed by the Assembly of the Republic, but in a context where there was no deep study of them. The difference now is that there is a proposal to extend these same tax benefits for five years, already based on a study by the Tax Authority, with the collaboration of the New University of Lisbon, which used for the first time the tax benefit evaluation matrix that resulted from the work of the group coordinated by Prof. Francisca Guedes de Oliveira and which had been designated by the Government to do the study of tax benefits in the country. So what the honourable Members and the honourable Members do. Members have at their disposal the study accompanying the evaluation of each of these tax benefits and the Government's proposal for their renewal or for some specific changes to these same tax benefits. Secondly, this bill also deals with certain tax benefits, which are the effects of the pandemic on business activity. On the one hand, it is possible and proposed that the years 2020 and 2021 should not be counted for the purposes of the re-investment period of the capital gains in IRC, which, as we know, has to do with reinvestment in the assets of the companies that are associated with its operation, including machinery and equipment, but also consider the years 2020 and 2021 for the purposes of accounting for the deduction period, either at the head of the RFAI ( Fiscal Investment Support Scheme ), either at the head of the SIFIDE ( System of Tax Incentives in Research and Business Development ). Thirdly, we are also using this bill to take advantage of the decisions of the European Commission which allowed the extension of regional State aid for one year and State aid granted under the GRIC (General Block Exemption Regulation) for three years. That is why, with regard to the deduction of retained and reinvested profits, it is proposed to extend it for another three years and is also proposed, with regard to RFAI and the Fiscal Code of Investment, in its regional component, to extend it for one year as determined by the European Commission. It is exactly within the framework of authorisations for the one-year extension of basic regional State aid which is also used to propose the extension for another year of the granting of new licences for enterprises operating at the International Centre for Madeira ( CINM). In addition to this extension proposal, in line with the proposal from the European Commission, and following what was the infringement procedure and the decision of the European Commission, adjustments are also made to the regime of the free zone of Madeira, in order to comply with its use with European law and in particular with State aid. Of course, I am at the disposal of the Members and the Members. Members for any matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u122	You now have the floor to present the legislative initiative of the PSD, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing a matter which is essential to an autonomous region with its own organs, ultraperipheral and strongly dependent on tourism, such as Madeira, and which also fights against the serious pandemic crisis caused by COVID-19. This is the third initiative that we put forward to defend an extraordinarily important instrument for Madeira and the country, which is the International Business Centre. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been on the side of Madeira, on the side of CINM, its workers and its businesses for the first time. This initiative is proof that, when there is good will, determination and unity of effort, it is possible to find a solution which, at the same time, supports the International Centre for Madeira Affairs and safeguards the various interests concerned: regional interest, national interest and European interest. Our initiative brings together the contribution of several entities linked to the sector, cautions Madeira's employment and tax revenue, promotes the trust, transparency, stability and competitiveness of CINM. Our initiative meets the issues raised by the European Commission without distorting the international character of the Centre, which is fundamental to Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that our initiative is the fairest, the most balanced and the one that corresponds to the greatest sum of wills. With our initiative, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we clarify the doubts about jobs in Madeira's Free Zone and define objective criteria for the allocation of tax benefits without violating national legislation and the rules of Community law. With the objective criteria that we introduce and which determine the types of eligible employment contracts, the existence of adequate facilities in Madeira and the mandatory requirements of the main decisions of management and management of companies are taken in the Region, it will be easier to carry out more effective control of licensed companies and to act on any prevarications. We still take advantage of you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to propose the extension for three years of the deadline for the issue of licences as authorised by the European Union in July. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done everything in our power to present solutions and have managed to present a proposal that guarantees the stability and competitiveness of this fundamental instrument for the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy. Do not count with us for battles or for ideological blind demands that have as their sole objective and purpose to end the Free Zone of Madeira!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u125	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what moves us is the defence of Madeira, the protection of workers and the tax revenue of the region, vital to our financial, economic and social sustainability. We continue, as always, available to, in a serious way, to improve what needs to be improved and create an understanding platform that allows for the adoption of a balanced solution that guarantees the trust and stability of the workers and companies of the International Centre for Madeira Affairs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u126	Mr André Silva, from the PAN, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u127	Good afternoon, Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is increasingly obvious, for everyone, that the PSD is today the shadow of what should be as the greater party of the opposition. This is proof of the debate which, today, brings us on tax matters, for the third time, in four months. in the context of an economic and social crisis, the repetition of debates was more acceptable if we were to see the PSD fighting the inadequacies of the Socialist Party's Government in certain matters. For example, defend the middle class that, with wages stagnated year after year, waits and despairs for a tax relief, proposes extraordinary tax measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that, at the moment, have the rope in their throat, or defend the allocation of tax benefits to companies that adopt environmentally sustainable behaviour. But no! Today, what we have is a PSD which, for the third time in four months, insists on the proposal to extend, for another three years, the possibility of entering new entities into the Free Zone of Madeira without any technical study that justifies the efficiency and effectiveness of what it proposes. We have already proposed this same study and was plunged by PS and PSD. It is once again a tax policy on the knee, which serves to prolong a regime that is, together with the vissgolds, one of the great foci of corruption, money laundering and tax evasion in our country, which gave tax bills — I repeat, to see if the PSD realizes for the third time — the ghost companies linked to BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), Isabel dos Santos or dictator Obiang. In just three years and with only 470 inspections, there were 200 million euros leaks in IRC. This, by itself, is self-explaining and would not need further clarification, but, if it is not yet clear, let's go to more facts. The PSD says here that it wants to clarify the regime as to the demand for jobs. This is good to see at the end of so many years of consistency with the opacity and misuse of this regime, but, in the low care it takes, it will not solve the fundamental problems that are identified by the European Commission and by several non-governmental organisations. It is basically merely cosmetics to try to disguise a regime that does not contribute to Madeira's productive economy and that does not benefit Madeirans and their businesses. More evidence is that this tax regime puts the GDP(gross domestic product) of the artificially high region, which means an indirect annual loss of EUR 1000 million in European and regional funds that should go to the region and its development. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP is against money laundering and tax havens, whether they are in the Cayman Islands, the Netherlands or Madeira. Therefore, we are against the tax bills of the Free Zone of Madeira and we will be against any extension of the duration without an assessment of the cost-benefit of the scheme which holds its advantages and disadvantages and proves its effectiveness and efficiency, as we have already proposed and was plunged by the PS and the PSD. Three-year extensions, such as the PSD, or one year, like the Government and the Socialist Party, without technical support, show well the irresponsibility of the central block and its lack of respect for the taxpayers, so the NAP will vote against this proposed extension.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u128	The next intervention is Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, perhaps this is too obvious to be said, but judging by the Government's proposal, it still needs to be said: one of the great advantages of the International Centre for Madeira's Business is exactly the fact that it is international. What the Government's proposal would do if approved was to end any interest an international entity could have in the Madeira Free Zone. One thing is to suit the functioning of the International Business Centre, in line with the European Commission's repairs, another very different thing is this excessive proposal that would damage the Free Zone of Madeira much beyond what is reasonable. And to make this proposal without prior listening to both the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Regional Government is a real lack of respect for the Madeirans and their autonomy. The PSD proposal on the same subject is much more balanced because it welcomes the criticisms of the European Commission while safeguarding the benefits and international attractiveness of the Madeira Free Zone. It will therefore deserve our favourable vote. The Liberal Initiative believes that taxation can and should be used as an attractive factor in the regions. The Free Zone of Madeira is not a tax haven because it has mechanisms, which can even be strengthened, control and prevention of abuse. The Madeira Free Zone is an attractive pole in the regional and national economy generating tax revenue. The Free Zone of Madeira has brought benefits to Madeira and to the Country and so must continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u130	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are several problems with the regime of the Madeira International Business Centre. The first problem is to integrate a fiscal competition logic that promotes inequalities and destroys wealth in the economic system as a whole. The Madeira International Business Centre is not an isolated regime and is part of a worldwide network of offshorers and tax havens in which each regime, with its characteristics, fulfils a purpose. That is, at best, the purpose of paying less taxes and, at worst, money laundering and other types of economic and not only crimes. The second problem is that historically the International Centre for Madeira Affairs and the system of privileges which it has and which implies do not benefit Madeira. It is false the blackmail of those who want to confuse the particular interests of the International Business Centre of Madeira, the businesses and the financial funds they benefit from, with the public interest or with the interests of Madeirans. The greatest proof of this is that whoever rips clothes on that pulpit talking about the interests of Madeirans and Madeira doesn't want to know about jobs. PSD doesn't want to know if the jobs are created in Madeira or if they are created in Cochinchina! Not only does he not want to know how, in his project, he allows them to be created anywhere. The PSD does not want a tax benefit regime for the development of Madeira, or an offshore for the Madeira regime and always wanted! Therefore, it is false the blackmail of those who say that who is next to the offshore is next to the Madeirans and who is against the offshore is against the Madeirans. On the contrary, those who are against the offshore are against the inequalities that affect, above all, the Madeirans and the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which has poverty bags of the most serious in the country. It is not with offshorers, with inequalities or with tax privileges that solve the problems of inequality and poverty. The third problem is that, apart from the rules being wrong, there is no monitoring capacity. We do not trust the Regional Tax Authority, which has left years of fraud in the regime of the International Business Centre of Madeira, until the former Director of the Tax Authority himself was then the administrator of the Madeira Development Society, which runs the International Business Centre. We understand what is happening in the supervision of the International Business Centre and do not trust that capacity. We also do not deny that the proposed law introduced by the Government introduces some decency in existing rules, but does not alter the nature of Madeira's privilege regime or solve the problem of lack of supervision, on the contrary, until it extends the possibility of new licences for one year. In addition, the Government's proposal extends and extends to eternity other tax benefits to the financial system, in particular those exempt from interest deposits or loans made by foreign credit institutions to Portuguese institutions and even profits arising from financial instruments such as swaps. We cannot of course agree with that and we shall therefore vote against the two proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u132	The next intervention is for Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Two months ago, we discussed here a PSD bill that, in its substance and in several of its articles, is exactly the same as the project presented again by the PSD and today in analysis. It is clear here that, at the moment we are living, the high priority of the PSD is to maintain the Madeira offshore. We do not see the PSD intervene to respond to the problems affecting the people of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which we see is the PSD concerned about the tax regime that only benefits the financial, national and foreign elite, which uses this free zone to escape tax payments. Mrs. Members, the Free Zone of Madeira has not helped to solve the problems of the country, nor the problems of the Autonomous Region ; on the contrary, over the years this regime has only had an artificial inflation of the region's GDP, causing the Autonomous Region of Madeira to receive less Community funds, thus damaging its regional development. from the point of view of employment, even research by the European Commission already recognizes what for the CFP is no novelty, i.e. that this scheme has not served its alleged purpose of promoting employment. In fact, the main concern of the PSD in its project is to continue to count, for the alleged job creation, the jobs created outside the region, the part-times multiplied by the various companies, finally, everything that is not in the interests of the workers and the people of Madeira. On the other hand, the Government's proposal by amending the regime but extending it does not do what is necessary either: putting an end to this tax paradise as a more general contribution to the eradication of tax havens, with which the Portuguese Government should be committed and is not. Our position is clear and expressed in the discussion of the State budget for 2021. We have tabled a proposal to repeal the rules of the Statute for Tax Benefits relating to Madeira's Free Zone, in a number of other amendments which would allow the abolition of various income tax exemptions generated in Portugal, particularly by speculative sectors. This proposal was rejected by the PS, the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, parties who, beyond rhetoric, want to maintain the tax privileges that are accessible to a privileged minority, thus withdrawing the resources necessary to meet the needs of Portuguese workers and people. Tax havens must be combated by what they represent as a refuge for the great crime, for corruption, for money laundering and for tax fraud. Apart from rhetoric, Portugal must end its own tax haven as a contribution to international intervention to eradicate these regimes. Anyone who fills his mouth, every day, against corruption, but continues to defend tax havens, does not pass from a political falsehood, even if it is for lack of appearance. A fairer fiscal policy is needed and this is only possible if there is adequate taxation of large capital, which at the same time enables tax relief on wages and consumption and fair treatment of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. These do not resort to tax havens and do indeed contribute to investment and job creation in both the country and the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u135	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Paulo Correia, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This proposal for a government law deals with various matters of tax benefits. The Government proposes the extension of certain tax benefits, the repeal of some tax benefits and the extension of the Madeira Free Zone regime. When we talk in this debate, mostly of the Free Zone of Madeira, we are leaving out of the Government's proposals for extending tax benefits which are equally important and which I would like to remind, especially those parties and parliamentary groups who want to vote against this Government bill. This bill includes, in the list of permanent tax benefits, tax schemes of cultural mecenate. This bill extends the exemption from IRC related to the collection of external financing by resident credit institutions. This proposal extends the exemption of IRC from capital income from regional wine committees. This bill extends the exemption from IRC for sport, culture and recreation communities. This bill extends the exemption from IRC to employers' and trade unions' confederations and associations. This proposal for a law extends the exemption of IRC from income derived from soils. This bill extends and amends tax benefits within IRS (tax on income of natural persons) for income from literary, artistic and scientific property. That is to say, this bill does not only deal with Madeira's Free Zone, but it deals with the extension of tax benefits that demonstrate effectiveness and efficiency in public policies. This should be valued; it should not be ignored. Regarding the Free Zone of Madeira, there is an elephant in the middle of the room to be spoken, which is the report of the European Commission's audit to the operation of the Free Zone of Madeira. The European Commission has come to say that it has detected irregularities by some of the companies based in the Madeira Free Zone, which access tax benefits, pay less taxes because they belong to the Madeira Free Zone and do not meet the essential requirements such as job creation and maintenance. The European Commission says they have failed to monitor and monitor. By translating this into the reality of things, the Regional Government of Madeira failed and failed the society that has an obligation to represent the Regional Government of Madeira in the monitoring, monitoring and functioning of the Free Zone of Madeira. An inspection by the European Commission is also open to the renewal of the delivery of the management and operation of the Madeira Free Zone to a private entity by direct adjustment. What would the PSD say if the Government of the Republic delivered the management of a free zone anywhere in the country to a private entity by direct adjustment, as has happened to the Regional Government of Madeira? Oh, my God! The European Commission has opened an inspection of this episode. It is a renewal of an attitude, and it is not clear why the Regional Government of Madeira insists on handing over the management of the Free Zone of Madeira to a private entity. Therefore, the bill, in our view, makes possible the continuity of the Free Zone of Madeira. For the Socialist Party, it makes no sense to speak of the end of the Free Zone of Madeira as there are other competing squares within the European Union. There should be a harmonised policy at European level and that is not on the table. What is on the table, urgently, is to enable the Free Zone of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u137	The intervention of Mr José Luís Ferreira from the ENP follows. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government presents to us a proposal for a bill to amend various provisions relating to the Statute for Tax Benefits, ranging from income from literary, artistic and scientific property to time-counting under the IRC Code and the Fiscal Code of Investment, through the repeal of tax benefits in the field of vehicle tax and single circulation tax, and the extension of the deadline for issuing licences to operate in the Free Zone of Madeira. On the latter subject, the Government says that it wants to answer the questions raised by the European Commission's research and, on the other hand, to extend for another year the issue of licences to operate in the Free Zone of Madeira. If the Government wants to extend this immorality for another year, the PSD, to seek to clarify doubts related to jobs under the current regime of the International Business Centre of Madeira, it also proposes to us the continuation of this fiscal regabofe for another three years. In fact, the result of the European Commission's research leaves no doubt as to what they do and what they employ in the Madeira Free Zone and what the contribution of this scheme to the development of the region. What does the European Commission say? Oh, my God! It says that jobs are double counted, that managers count as workers and that tax benefits are allocated without effective control. Nothing new, therefore, because that's how they work and that's also how international business centers thrive. It's all good not to pay taxes. Now, the government wants to extend this immorality for another year and the PSD for another three years, but the most interesting thing is that neither the government proposal nor the PSD proposal make any reference to the need to fully recover the aid that, over time, has illegally benefited these companies. You will know why, but on this matter, not a word, not the government, nor the PSD! Not like that. We do not agree and we believe that instead of extending this scheme, what is required is to fully recover illegal aid. in a more global analysis, tax havens have contributed and continue to contribute to the immorality and fiscal injustice that reigns among us. In fact, we all know what they serve and who they serve in tax havens. They serve great fortunes and big businesses, and they serve so that these fortunes do not pay taxes and hide money. For this reason, the Greens have always opposed the existence of tax havens and we have also presented a legislative initiative in 2019 for the Government to take the initiative to actively engage with the other States of the European Union and its international organisations in order to find solutions to eliminate tax havens. In our view, that is what is required, and not to perpetuate in time the issue of licences to operate in the Free Zone of Madeira, even above without even seeking to recover the aid that has been unlawfully allocated to these companies. So we are going to vote against the PSD bill, because we do not agree with it at all, and we are going to vote against the government proposal, because the government has not given us the chance to vote in favour of the other proposals, which may even have some use but the government has decided « to put everything in the same bag ». [[Congrats from PCP MP Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u139	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this proposal for a government law, I think we have to go to parties because three different points are at issue. First, it has to do with the extension of tax benefits, which would expire without this initiative. From that point of view, there are no problems for us. Secondly, it has to do with an extraordinary measure for taxable persons to have two more years to reinvest the value of the sale of assets that generated more value. It makes sense, in a time of pandemic. Thirdly, we are facing the question of the Free Zone of Madeira. I would like to remind you that this is not the first time we have discussed this matter. In fact, in recent times this is not the first time either, because we have discussed it before the end of 2020. in this regard, the PSD also has an initiative, which seems to me to be much more sensible. I explain why: firstly, we should not forget that, apart from being in the middle of a pandemic and beyond Madeira, like the whole country, suffering with it, it is true that Madeira is a particularly dependent region of tourism, which is obviously not happening right now. It is not happening in Madeira as it is not happening in most places in the world, but Madeira is one of the places that most depend on tourism. Therefore, it would be good not to be adding to a problem already serious yet another problem. Secondly, it is also good to remember that the Government's proposal goes against the opinion of the Madeira Legislative Assembly. In addition, I would like to quote an opinion from the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Madeira Legislative Assembly, which says : « The Portuguese Government has resigned from its responsibility for clarifying and raising awareness of the European institutions and even of a strong response in terms of challenge, choosing to launch an incomprehensible and disproposed legislative attack to the International Centre for Madeira Affairs, forgetting its importance to the country itself ». Now, we cannot always be attending pious speeches on autonomy and on regions and then, when it really comes time to respect the autonomy of a region, purely and simply make a dead letter of what your government thinks and what your Parliament thinks. Finally, I would like to remind you of this: 2300 companies are involved and could be involved 6000 jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, you will be able to make all the speeches you want about revenue losses and what is not charged for the Free Zone of Madeira. The reality is that if this regime ends or is limited, like the government, the public record will not see any more taxes. What you're going to see is a lot of companies getting out of there and going anywhere else, where they're not pure and just waiting to charge them. This is what is going to happen and this is why it is seen that, in Madeira, the issue is quite comprehensive and there are so many political forces defending it. It is that it is good for Madeira and for the Madeirans and, consequently, what is good for the Autonomous Region of Madeira, I think it is good for all of us, Portuguese, and Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u142	It is now the turn of Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to give some notes on this diploma, in particular with regard to the Free Zone of Madeira. I must say, in the interest of the truth, that I will not be long enough on the importance of the Madeira Free Zone to Madeira, because it seems more or less obvious to me. The facts are unquestionable. Basically, I would like to mention a few notes, following the statement made by Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, which I think are relevant. The honourable Member said once again that this is the fairest and most balanced proposal. I must say it wasn't always like that, and it's good to remember that. At the time of the State budget, we warned exactly this detail, that the PSD only intended to make a mere extension of the tax benefits, forgetting, putting its head in the sand, under the carpet, which was, in fact, the European Commission's audit of Regime III of the Madeira Free Zone. Now, that is unthinkable to happen in the context in which we are. And I remember the context in which we are: the context is a negotiation for a fifth regime, which means the continuity of the Free Zone of Madeira. The continuity of the Free Zone of Madeira requires credibility of institutions and political options. This credibility of the institutions or political options also implies that the governments, authorities, the regional government in particular and the authorities that have responsibility for matters in the Madeira Free Zone do not fail or do what they did in the past, in particular the interpretative order made by the Regional Government in 2014, which basically led to the audit of the European Commission, or even the award without any competition to an entity that, by chance, already had such a concession. But it was done without a contest. However, these facts are not neutral for the European Commission's assessment of the Madeira Free Zone.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u144	Mr. Carlos Pereira, I would like you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u145	I'm done now, Mr. President. So what I think is very important is that this diploma comes on the road to credibility in the Madeira Free Zone, which is, on the one hand, the extension of tax benefits and, on the other hand, the accommodation of the European Commission's interpretation, which seems very relevant to me. I would like to conclude by saying that the Socialist Party will request the resignation of this diploma to the committee, without a vote, in order to find a way to answer these questions that I have just put. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u146	It is now the floor of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which is the last parliamentary group to intervene on this point because it was the author of an initiative. The Government calls for it to report that, in its next intervention, it will bring together the time it still has at its own time for the closure. So that's how we're going to proceed. You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate has shown that the two initiatives under discussion, although distinct, have a common purpose and we believe that today we are taking a significant step towards creating the necessary conditions to find, in the field of expertise, a common understanding and proposal that meets the interests of Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the road has been long and full of obstacles, but we still believe that it will be possible to find a solution and make a proposal to ensure that CINM is maintained. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. At no time has the European Commission report called into question the existence of this scheme. What the report does is to detect the irregularities arising from interpretative doubts that the European Commission has also had for 15 years, and has not requested any clarification of national legislation to clarify these doubts. So there is also a need for some rigour on the part of the ladies and gentlemen. Members in this area. It is very easy to come here to show concepts, to continue accusing the Free Zone of being a tax haven, when we know it is not, to compare the Free Zone with tax havens that are not audited by the European Commission, which is not the case that we are talking about here. It is therefore very easy to come here to criticize without presenting solutions. As a final note, unfortunately, we regret the deep ignorance that still fats in the position of the parties on the far left in relation to this matter. at a time of severe pandemic crisis, struggle for job maintenance and economic subsistence, the extreme left continues to turn its back on workers, continues to turn its back on the Madeiran people and on the will of their own government bodies and continues to put ideology and dogma above all. In the background, it remains unappreciative of the importance of CINM as a vehicle of internationalization of the economy of an outermost region such as Madeira, its multiplier effect on tourism and other related areas. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is what we are talking about: a mechanism and an instrument of internationalisation of the economy, which is very important both for tax revenue and for jobs, and for other related activities, such as tourism. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, constantly coming here to criticize and show concepts without solutions and without presenting an alternative proposal is very easy. That's not what PSD does. The PSD is a responsible party and has once again presented an alternative solution which is viable, which meets all the requirements, which is in harmony with the doubts raised by the European Commission and which does not call into question national standards or Community law standards. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa. You now have the floor for the closure on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take advantage of the time I have left for the debate and the time for the closure to do two things, and first of all I will touch some points that have been focused here. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I totally reject the accusation made in this opinion by the Legislative and Regional Assembly of Madeira. I really want to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that I believe that the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira has an obligation to be a public witness to the absolutely impeccable institutional cooperation that the Government of the Republic has always had with the Government of the Autonomous Region. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is not a single step in this process that has been taken without prior knowledge and agreement from the Regional Government of Madeira, and I hope that the Regional Government of Madeira can publicly confirm it, because this is the truth and will continue to be the truth, since respect for regional autonomy and respect for institutional cooperation are absolutely crucial for the action of Mr. José Luís Ferreira, regarding the recovery of illegal aid, the Regional Government of Madeira has already returned me the signed order in which a working group is established between the national authorities, Tax Authority and Tax Affairs of the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ATRAM ), Directorate-General for European Affairs and Planning Office, Strategy, Evaluation and International Relations of the Ministry of Finance ( GPEARI ) to make the recovery plan for the illegal aid granted. So that's what's going on. Mr André Silva, in this same office is determined to make a cost/benefit assessment of the Free Zone of Madeira, using a public higher education institution, so that, once and for all, there will be a study that can substantiate what may be a new aid. This is because the current aid, Member of Parliament — it is good for us to sit down — ends in 2027. Now we are not extending the aid which ends in 2027, Mr President. What we are doing, as part of the extension of regional basic aid — as we bring here those of RFAI and DLRR ( Deduction for Retired and Reinvested Works), that the European Commission, within the framework of the pandemic, has admitted to extend for one year — is to extend for one year the granting of new licences and we will have this study precisely to justify whether a new State aid scheme is worth or not. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on tax policy, the government is in a very clear field, which is the field of those who consider that there cannot be a fair single market if there is no fiscal harmonisation throughout the territory of the European Union. But it's worth very little to the ladies. Members of some banks have applied for tax harmonisation when they are the first to be contrary to qualified majority tax decision rules because at the moment the biggest obstacle to the European Union's tax harmonisation is exactly the veto and blocking power that certain countries have in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why under the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the Union, the country-by-country reporting(CbC) and the publicity of multinational gains in each of the Union's territories will probably be approved very soon. And why does that happen? Because it is a matter that we consider to be competition and not a tax matter and that will therefore be able to be decided by qualified majority, and this qualified majority is the best thing that can help us to have standards of fiscal harmonisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u150	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for concluding, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u151	That's why, sirs. Members, when deciding and defending here, and well, the Union's fiscal harmonisation, do not forget that one of the biggest obstacles is even the rule of unanimity which, from left to right, many parties have repeatedly defended. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this third item on our agenda. The fourth point consists in the general debate of the Bill No 67 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Establishs a VAT exemption applicable to transmissions of in vitro diagnostic medical devices of COVID-19 and vaccines against the same disease and services, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2020 / 2020. To begin this item on our agenda, you again have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes, to whom I give the floor. Do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you know, VAT (tax on value added) is a European basic tax and, as such, subject to very strict rules. Within the framework of the pandemic, a directive has been adopted that has allowed us to make the proposal we are now making to the Assembly of the Republic, i.e. a proposal for exemption or zero VAT rate for all transmissions and acquisitions of medical devices for in vitro diagnosis of the disease COVID-19. Therefore, we are talking about the exemption from VAT in respect of the purchase of tests, but we are also talking about the exemption from VAT in respect of the purchase of vaccines intended to combat COVID disease and also about the exemption from VAT in respect of all services which are related to both the testing and the inoculation of vaccines. This is the proposal that we bring in compliance with and within the framework of the European Union's authorisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u154	Let us then begin the debate on this proposal for a government law. Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor to begin with.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: As has been our position since the beginning and during the health crisis we are facing, we will approve all measures to speed up the import of the devices necessary to combat COVID-19, including vaccines, as is now proposed with this Government legislative initiative. We believe that taxation should not be a barrier to the great mission that the country faces, which is to move ahead quickly with the vaccination process, involving all Portuguese. But if taxation cannot be an obstacle, there are other obstacles that should also be overcome. We are talking about the obstacles resulting from the greed and compromise failures of large pharmaceuticals. We are talking about the obstacles resulting from the government's self-limitation of contracts made by the European Union with pharmaceuticals that do not have sufficient production capacity and do not accept subcontracting the production of vaccines or sharing or suspending patents. It is necessary to ensure the diversification of the purchase of vaccines in order to achieve the vaccination objectives. on our part, we are available to ensure that, in addition to the tax obstacles that are removed with this government proposal, these other obstacles are overcome, so that vaccination and the fight against COVID-19 happen with the success that we all want.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u156	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing the transposition of the VAT-free directive both vaccines against COVID-19 and medical devices that allow in vitro detection of COVID-19. Obviously, we have nothing against and much in favour of these provisions. It makes every sense that, at the moment we live, there is this exemption and, more importantly, that it is extended to the services provided closely connected with these devices or with these vaccines. We will therefore vote in favour of these provisions, but we draw attention to the fact that the tax administration often tends to make very restrictive interpretations of generic provisions such as this one, of services that are closely connected with devices and vaccines, so we hope that there will also be compliance by the tax administration with the spirit of this legislation, i.e. that everything that is linked either to vaccines or to the devices is exempt from VAT and its application. I can also point out that, at this time in Portugal, there is an extraordinary contribution not only to the pharmaceutical industry but also to medical devices and, while I realize that we are in the pandemic, we are now discussing a VAT exemption while the country has an extraordinary contribution, in addition to VAT, on medical devices in the pharmaceutical industry. In any case, this has little to do with the initiative in question, which will, of course, deserve our favourable vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs Cecilia Meireles. We now have the inscription of Mr André Silva. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposal that the Government brings to us here is to establish common sense. The aim is to exempt from VAT the medical devices used in the COVID-19 tests and the operations for the acquisition of vaccines against COVID-19. It is basically a very important directive, which allows this exemption of VAT, in a transitional way, by 2022, thereby ensuring that the costs of tests and vaccines are reduced. These exemptions are more than just in a context where the country's high priority must be precisely vaccination, testing and mass screening. Without achieving each of these priorities, we cannot overcome the health crisis and its social and economic impacts. That is why we must take all measures to facilitate the fulfilment of these priorities. For this reason, the NAP cannot fail to vote in favour. However, we must bear in mind that almost one year ago in April 2020 the NAP proposed here the application of 6 % VAT to all medical devices and personal protective equipment identified as essential to the fight against the health crisis, which, in addition to masks and disinfectant gel, would allow the application of VAT reduced, for example, to surgical suits, to comprehensive protective facts, towels, footwear protection, visors and single-use gloves. At the time, PS, PCP, CDS and Arrival voted against. Today, the proposal we are going to approve will ensure the exemption of sugar beet, today taxed at 6 % VAT, but we still do not understand why individual protective devices as important as gloves, visors or thugs continue without this VAT exemption or at least with a 6 % VAT. Is individual protection not so necessary to combat the health crisis as vaccination or mass testing? Finally, a final note calling on the Government, in respect of the VAT of vaccines, which is related to the fact that the Council of the European Union is pending the legislative process for amending Directive 2006 / 112, which, once completed, will allow the countries of the European Union to grant exemption from VAT paid at the previous stage applicable to the delivery of OVID-19 vaccines and services linked to such vaccines. The adoption of this amendment will prevent these measures from having to be taken in a temporary logic of flap blankets, as we are going to do today. It is therefore of the utmost importance and urgency that the Government, within the Portuguese presidency of the Council of the European Union, should do everything possible to complete this important legislative process.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u160	The next intervention lies with Mrs Vera Braz of the Socialist Party. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : I would like to go back a bit. Since the beginning of this pandemic that precisely the mask and the disinfectant gel have become part of the day-to-day of all of us. None of us leave home today without these materials, indispensable not only for our protection, but for the protection of all those around us. They took on a central role as the main tool for preventing and combating the spread of the outbreak of COVID-19. in this context, the Government proposed to the Assembly of the Republic, having been approved unanimously, the application of the reduced VAT rate to the sale of masks and disinfectant gel, at a crucial time when we witnessed exponential increases in the prices of these materials, in a totally abusive way, and which, together with the government's price limitation and the social accountability of the traders themselves, was able to restore equal access to these materials. In the same proposal, safeguarding the interests of our companies, which, once again, have reinvented themselves, and respecting free competition in an economy which is either open market, the exemption of VAT has been extended to national and Community operators in the provision of various health equipment, including those of individual protection. Today, combined with the maintenance of this individual protection of each of us, testing capacity and vaccination are the new army of this combat. If only with vaccination and its large-scale administration will we be able to have an effective and permanent form of struggle, until there we must avoid as many casualties as possible, and this is only possible by limiting and containing the contagion through testing. Our installed capacity for testing has been increasing because if we started with a laboratory, they are currently over 100. To date, 7, 6 million screening tests have been performed at COVID-19 and, as our Prime Minister has advanced, the descent of the epidemiological curve will also pass through our screening capacity. The Minister of Health, yesterday, was in the Assembly of the Republic, in hearing, and shared the change in testing policy, with the extension to high and low-risk contacts and also to sectors of great social exposure such as schools, factories or civil construction, which came to be confirmed later, according to the review of DGS guidelines ( Directorate-General for Health ). As for vaccination, we have already exceeded the 400 000 doses of vaccines administered. According to a study by the Hospital and University Center of Coimbra, 97% of our vaccinates today present protective antibodies against the disease. We're on our way. We know that we have the capacity and the possibility to administer up to 150 000 vaccines a day, so that they are received. thus, the initiative presented here today by the Government, implementing the European Commission Directive, is another fiscal measure to combat this pandemic, providing for the temporary exemption of VAT for transmissions of medical devices for in vitro diagnosis of VOCID-19, vaccines and services associated with them. This is another very important step in the strategy to follow, ensuring that they become as accessible as soon as possible. This is the follow-up to a joint work between the European Union and the World Health Organization, which have concerted efforts towards a strong and coherent response by each Member State. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal will take advantage of all possible measures to help prevent this struggle of glory, reducing the number of deaths in our country and ensuring an effective recovery of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u162	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Testing and vaccination must be the strategy right now – mass testing and mass vaccination. That is also what experts at the already known meetings of Infarmed have told the political parties, the government, etc. at this moment, it is necessary to test much, test much more than what is being done, because it is necessary to walk in front of the virus and not behind it and, of course, it is necessary to vaccinate as quickly as possible as many people as possible as possible, because, as all and all we know, vaccination is that, ensuring group immunity, it will take us out of the pandemic. We will therefore, of course, follow up on measures to help speed up this test and vaccination. To test and vaccinate it is necessary to have not only test kits, the materials to do this test, it is also necessary to have vaccines and, therefore, we do not oppose measures for greater accessibility and easy import of these materials. But if you ask us whether this measure will solve all the problems, or even the big problem, we will answer that no, it will not solve all the problems or even the big problem, because the big problem at the moment is the supply of vaccines, which is a problem that is linked to the deliberate and repeated non-compliance of the pharmaceutical industry, which has been highly financed with public money to do research and the production of vaccines, has engaged in contracts with States and is not respecting them at least. In fact, Portugal, in the Vaccination Plan against COVID-19, predicted that by the end of the first quarter of 2021 more than 4 million vaccines had already been prescribed and that this plan had been revised to a very low extent now foreseeing 1, 98 million vaccines until the end of the first quarter. Mr Secretary of State, that is what is happening at the national level, and that is what Mr Coordinator of the Task Force presented at the last meeting: 4 million doses were planned by the end of the first quarter and we will receive 1 98 million doses, therefore less than half of what was planned for non-compliance by the pharmaceutical industry. So I do not oppose this, it seems to us that the big answer is missing here. Moreover, Portugal is now in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and has a role it could play, to demand the lifting of vaccine patents and to demand vaccines as a public good, publicly accessible to all countries, for more intensive and massive production. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u164	For an intervention, Mr Eduardo Teixeira, from the PSD, has the floor. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, in tax matters it is still time to act and it will not be soon! Today we are discussing and examining a proposal for a government law aimed at a tax measure exempting VAT from VAT, moving to the zero rate applicable to vaccines against COVID-19, commercial transmissions of medical devices for in vitro diagnosis of this disease and services, in response to this pandemic. The aim is to make the fight we all fight for the effects of the pandemic outbreak on Portugal and the Portuguese more accessible as soon as possible. In fact, the situation is indeed very serious and the fight for public health, which we all still have to stop, and much must be absolutely ferocious, and for this reason it was today in this House, renewed by 11. at the same time, the state of national emergency, to be proclaimed today by the President of the Republic. The spread of this pandemic reaches gigantic and unimaginable proportions: close to 110 million infected and two million and four hundred thousand dead worldwide. In Portugal, last few days and last January were dramatic. We walk to the 800,000 cases and almost 15,000 dead. The first month of this year was by far the most lethal month of the pandemic in Portugal, representing, in only 30 days, almost 50 % of the total deaths by COVID-19, when in the rest of the world, and despite the drama being maintained, states there will be confined, composition and containing the spread. We are the worst in the world in new cases and in mortality. As for the deaths due to the disease, in Portugal, since 21 January last, the average daily number of deaths exceeded 18 per million inhabitants, reaching a peak of 28, 5, with the numbers above 20 yesterday, more than in any Spanish, Italian, Brazilian, South African or North American wave. The dizzying increase in the number of deaths puts us before an unparalleled drama and compels us to ask what has failed in the pandemic struggle in recent months. The Government must even radically change its strategy, at a time when new measures of severe general confinement apply. It would have been much easier if a few months ago they had listened to the PSD and had advanced with the mass testing of the population. But no. And being the PSD in accordance with the proposed law today, of VAT exemption for vaccines and diagnostic tests until the end of the year 2021, in the hope that the spread can be contained there, and despite the fact that the government is returning to October last year, it only proposes it because it derives from a European directive adopted at the European Council on 7 December last. To combat this pandemic it was much more necessary, Mr Secretary of State, because among these successive confinements and definitions, people and the economy no longer stand, because there is a lack of express support for the economy and fiscal policy failure, with more exemptions, applied ambitiously and musculated in the face of the expected economic depression which is already too evident in Portugal. In fact, the government has many means to relieve its tax firms, with the very strengthened powers of the financial resources of the so-called European bazouca. This enemy without face or mercy also fights with tax policy, via taxation, and the measures that the Government has so far taken in the tax chapter are almost nothing, especially in relation to the survival and maintenance of Portuguese jobs. No, it cannot only be tax moratoriums and tax payments, which, in future, will all be paid to the State, could go much further by reducing, for example, the IRC, by suspending the payment of spills, withholdings at source, taxes on account or extending the period of loss reporting to other fiscal years. It could also relieve families with the non-payment of such tax burden of IRS because the year 2020, already pandemic, was the highest year of ever in labour taxes and Portuguese income. In fact, taxation will be a huge obstacle to recovery, because it will lack oxygen to businesses and families to pay for tax and banking commitments that have only been delayed and will have to be made in the future. For this reason, only the way to reduce taxation will be used at the start of the economy to preserve jobs and businesses themselves. We will have to be together in this struggle for collective survival, but not so. Much, but much more could and must be done in tax matters for the benefit of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u166	For an intervention, Mr Ventura has the floor now. Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, we know that the VAT system is common throughout the European Union and therefore we do not have the margin we would like to have. In any case, there is a fact that it seems obvious that the European Council was able to adopt an amendment to the directive and the common system which allowed temporary exemption not only for vaccines such as kits and, according to law, services strictly linked to them. This is an incomprehensible delay in the functioning of the European Union, which we must sanction. But since Portugal is presiding over the European Union, I would like to ask directly whether or not it will be possible to take any initiative to extend this exemption to other equipment, if we can come to have the same exemption outside the regime we have approved here, in the Assembly of the Republic, for protective equipment and not only for what we have now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u168	To make the closing statement on this item on the agenda, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the various individual protective equipment, Portugal was even the first countries to adopt the Directive, not only on imports from third countries, but also on intra-Community procurement. We were even from the first countries to do so, because we correctly interpreted the Commission's decision, which was only in relation to imports. Mr Teixeira, I have listened very carefully to what you have done and I want to say to you - very clearly - and I hope that you will believe what I am going to say to you - that we do not bring this bill just the tow of the decision. Since VAT is a Community basic tax, the rules are Community. On 7 December, the Council took this decision and today, 11 February, we are approving it. Mr President, I have no comparison with the other Member States, but I have many doubts that we have not even been the first to do so - and we have done so - because that was our obligation. Ours, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic, because we are all united to do and do our best in fighting the pandemic. Mr President, the tax responses must be given. I am sorry to tell you this, but on the tax responses, what you came to do was read an article that came out today or yesterday. But I was also aware that the honourable Member thinks that, in the middle of the pandemic, the good we can do in terms of fiscal policy is to put an end to the spillovers, which are, exactly, about the profits of companies that have the most profits. Sir, that is almost incomprehensible! I don't know if you were a Member of Parliament in the previous Parliament, but the Members. PSD members voted against the IRS descent. Is the honourable Member now calling for the IRS to be down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u170	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u171	The gentlemen. Members voted against the fall of IRS and today the Portuguese pay less EUR 1000 million of IRS than they would pay with the rules that existed in 2015. So, Mr President, I think we all need to have more humility in the way we want to put things. I have no doubt, Mr. Member, about your commitment and your party's commitment to fighting the pandemic and looking for the best solutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u172	Mr. Secretary of State, I would like you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u173	I'm done now, Mr. President. But I do not doubt that this is also the government's commitment, and therefore we will not hesitate, even with fiscal policy, to give full support to the economy and recovery. Mr President, many measures have been taken and many will certainly be done with the support of you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u174	We therefore conclude item 4 of the agenda, which consisted of the discussion of the Bill No 67 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), and we present our compliments to the members of the Government present. Mrs. Members, for agenda items 5, 6 and 7, consisting respectively of motions for resolutions Nos 16 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part, signed in Tokyo on 17 July 2018, and 17 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the accession to the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties between States and International Organizations or between International Organizations, concluded in Vienna on 21 March 1986, and to the Draft Law No 608 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ) — Extraordinary entry into the parliamentary career of workers of public interest in the RA, initiated before the entry into force of Law No. 23 / 2011 of 20 May, were not allocated time for discussion. We will therefore enter the period of the vote. I wonder if all parliamentary groups and Members are in a position to begin the voting. [[Pause.]] We then begin with the Vote Project No 455 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PS ) — Regret of the death of Bruno Navarro. I would ask Vice-President Edite Estrela to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Bruno Navarro died last January 30. He was 43 years old. Historian, professor, researcher and president of the Board of Directors of the Fundação Côa Parque, Bruno Navarro was born in Coimbra, on August 27, 1977, having conducted his secondary studies in Vila Nova de Foz Côa. He graduated in History from the University of Lisbon, where he made a master's degree in Contemporary History. He then completed his doctorate at the University of Nova, where he was a teacher, also practicing teaching at the Higher Institute of Educational Sciences. His work as a researcher was the subject of several recognitions, having won the prize The Parliament and the Republic, awarded by the Assembly of the Republic ; the Contemporary History Prize—Dr. Victor de Sá, awarded by the Cultural Council of the University of Minho ; and the Republic and Academy Prize, awarded by the National Commission for the Commemorations of the Centennial of the Republic. Bruno Navarro was, since 2017, president of the Board of Directors of the Côa Parque Foundation, an institution that manages the Museum and the Archaeological Park of the Côa Valley, a well-known Heritage of Humanity. In July last year, Bruno Navarro promoted a tribute to the current UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, for being the Portuguese politician who, in 1995, made the decision to ensure the safeguarding of the rock heritage, considered the world's largest outdoor paleolithic sanctuary. Bruno Navarro's mandate at the Côa Parque Foundation will always be a milestone in the history of the institution and in the region of the Côa Valley, resulting from his high competence, dedication and passion. The Côa Parque Foundation is today a reference in the country and out there. In September 2020, he was formally elected as a member of the Living Science Directorate. Bruno Navarro leaves us too early, but he leaves us an exceptional legacy in culture, science and teaching and, above all, an example of humanism and kindness. And it is this legacy that is also important here to recognize. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Bruno Navarro and conveys its condolences to his family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I inform the House that they are present, in the gallery, relatives of Bruno Navarro, to whom, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, we present our heartfelt condolences. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the vote that we have just taken, we will respect 1 minute silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we continue with the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 454 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and subscribed by the IL and PS Members ) — Greetings for the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] With regard to Bill No 66 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Other matters relating to tax benefits and creates an extraordinary measure of time-counting within the framework of IRC, an application was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance, without a vote, within 60 days, as in draft Law No 615 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amends the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, clarifying the criteria for granting benefits to licensed entities in the Madeira Free Zone. If there is no objection, we shall vote on the two demands together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These two initiatives are therefore down to 5. the Commission. We turn to the vote on Bill No 67 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — establishes a VAT exemption applicable to transmissions of in vitro diagnostic medical devices of COVID-19 and vaccines against the same disease and services, transposing Directive ( EU) 2020 / 2020. If there is no objection, we shall vote for it in general, in speciality and in a global final vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u177	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u178	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u179	Mr President, it was to request the final drafting waiver in respect of the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u180	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if anyone opposes you. [[Pause.]] There is consensus, so it will be, Mrs Deputy. We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 16 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part, signed in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the NAP and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on resolution No 17 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the accession of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties between States and International Organizations or between International Organizations, concluded in Vienna on 21 March 1986. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now vote for Bill No. 608 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ) — Extraordinary entry into the parliamentary career of workers of public interest in the RA, initiated before the entry into force of Law No 23 / 2011 of 20 May. If there is no objection, we shall vote for it in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u181	Mr President, it is to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 891 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends that the Government reject an Energy Charter Treaty incompatible with the environmental commitments and interests of the people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request from the ENP to disaggregate the vote by points. Let us therefore begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions of the PSD and the CH.]] We are now voting on point 2 of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Finally, we are voting on point 3 of this initiative. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 873 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Extension of beneficiaries of the extension of unemployment benefit, extraordinary extension of social unemployment benefit and immediate access to support for self-employed persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] Mrs. Lara Martinho, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u183	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u184	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes also asks for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u185	Mr President, it is also to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will make a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u186	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u187	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to inform me that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u188	The intention of the two parliamentary groups and Mr Ventura is to make a statement of vote. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 701 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Review of career as a nature vigilante and recruitment of sufficient effectives. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 793 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — by Valuing Nature Watchers. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] Then we will vote on the Resolution Project No. 797 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — By reviewing the career of nature vigilante and strengthening human resources for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We shall also vote on draft resolution No 825 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the review of the career of Nature Watcher, the hiring of professionals and the strengthening of material resources at their disposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We now move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions No 688 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of actions aimed at depolating the Ferreira River and at requalifying its margins as well as the full functioning of the ETAR in the shortest possible time; 698 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Water Law, ensure the proper treatment of River Ferreira effluents and ensure their urgent depollution; and 815 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing Ferreira River and its tributaries. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Mrs. Lara Martinho, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u189	Mr President, it is to inform the House that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u190	Be registered. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 794 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Environmental assessment and major conditions for research, exploration and exploitation of mineral deposits; and 816 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct a strategic environmental assessment for mining. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the request by BE for a vote by the plenary of the vote, in the speciality, of a proposal from this amendment party to Article 8. the Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October — Suitable for instruments created under the New Generation of Housing Policies and the Organic Law of IHRU, I.P. the Housing Basics Act under the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme [ Parliamentary Assessment No 33 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u191	Mr President, following the approval of this request, a debate is opened, and I would therefore like to write to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u192	The Bureau accepted the inscriptions of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who wish to speak. You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is one of the various decrees necessary for the implementation of the Housing Bases Act. It's a short step, it's almost everything to do, but it's a step forward. in this parliamentary appreciation, we have made our contributions to the existence of a national authority of housing, with full strengthening and necessary territorialization of the Institute of Housing, but the Socialist Party and the PSD have brought us down. What is not meant — this appeal is precisely seeking to give one final opportunity to amend this situation — is that there is a need for transparency in relation to one of the main housing response programmes. Programme 1. the law intends to respond to tens of thousands of housing deficiencies. This is a dynamic programme, it will have changes, it will need more budget and it will respond to much more needs than those initially identified. This has come to be visible to every information which, with much effort, becomes public. Due to the importance and the ambitious objective of eradicating housing shortages until 25 April 2024, it should be highly scrupulous and its information, anonymized and aggregated, should be public, correcting one of the major errors of past programs. In fact, one of the most serious problems for the design of public housing policies in Portugal is the inconsistencies and the lack of information: it is either delivered to real estate consulting companies, which make it a private business, or they look forward, eternally, to compilation on the part, of those also eternally in creation, government bodies. Programme 1. the law had something that rarely existed: an annual follow-up report. What the decree of law we have analyzed has been this transparency. We simply propose that you respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u195	There are no omelettes without eggs, no public policy without information and no guarantee of implementation without transparency. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u196	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Filipa Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola : Once again we will ask for information. Information, PSD has already requested. It has already marked an urgent debate in December and has asked for information, information, information! Train yourself, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this country will receive a cheque, which is completely lost, unprecedented in Europe, to make housing. A check of billions, unprecedented, and Ursula von der Leyen tells us that we have to be transparent, that we have to fight corruption, that we have to imagine what the future may be.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u198	And it's from there? PSD votes against! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u199	A future of culture, innovation, technology, imagination! And what do we have in Portugal? We have a socialist government and, frankly, I do not believe there is a person in this country who believes that a socialist government is able to manage a program of public works of this nature. What we have is a government preparing for the socialist party again, and what we are going to have in this Parliament is the PSD asking for information from the first day to the last.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u200	Welcome! Where were they?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u201	Long time ago, Mrs. Member of the Left Block. For a long time we've been asking for information that we don't have. Where were they in December when the PSD marked the urgent debate on this matter? [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Where were they when we went to ask for the National Housing Council and the National Housing Programme a year ago? Where were they? Don't pretend! One thing that can do very well right now is pretend that you haven't been here for five years to support this government, but you have walked! It's not worth pretending they didn't walk because they walked! [[BE's protests.]] And what are we going to have now? My dialogue is neither with you, it is even for people who are out there and I want you to be able to do this: this country will receive an unprecedented check to do public works. No one believes in this country that a socialist government is capable of this. That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u202	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u203	Socialist party's over, socialist party's over! We must turn the page of socialism in Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u204	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS, Mrs Maria Begonha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Filipa Roseta: Where was the PSD with the worst laws of approved income? Where was the PSD when we passed the Housing Base Law, which the PSD voted against? Where has the PSD been in the debate on housing and strengthening the State's role in housing? PSD has been absolutely absent! [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] Therefore, while not accompanying the PS everything that Mrs. Member of the Left Block said, it is really necessary to point out the difference in registration. The decree-law that we have appreciated, and whose lawyers also allow us to appreciate today, has brought, again, an advance in the adequacy of the instruments to the Housing Bases Act, which Mrs. Filipa Roseta so greatly devalues, because there is a decision of principle, of public policy by the Socialist Party, to promote housing with the intervention and strengthening of the role of the State. A policy that aims to make the State, in fact, responsible for the role of eliminating housing shortages — which has never been a right-wing concern, particularly the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u206	And where's the PSD now? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u207	It is clear that many of the objectives that we propose are only resolved in the medium or long term. It is also clear that this decree of law, which fits instruments and constitutes an advance, does not solve all the problems that we have of housing. But it is very important to understand that we cannot follow the allegations of lack of information or lack of transparency. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] In fact, a report on Programme 1 has been submitted. The law in this House. There has been no attempt by the government to steal from the delivery of information or transparency, on the contrary. The creation of the National Housing Council is also an instrument for consultation, transparency and dialogue. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] There has indeed not been a failure to comply with rigor, transparency and information, but we will not make this article impossible by the Left Block, which basically also states the information that would already be available.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u208	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u209	And it strengthens the State's accountability, in which we believe, in the provision of all the information that can densify the public policies we are implementing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u210	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u211	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola: You are right. In fact, public housing is a scandal in Portugal. But it is not a scandal because there is no information from the government. It is a scandal because our public housing has been social housing, it has been housing, paid by the Portuguese taxpayers, paid by the middle class, paid by those who have paid the most taxes and now see the government turning their faces.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u212	What about bank credits? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u213	Mrs. Deputy, of the left block autoarchs, who will certainly be able to give you this information, will know of the non-compliance that there are incomes and payments in these houses, that all of us, an entire country, out there, continue to pay insistently and incessantly. [[Protests by the Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We're not saying they make each other and pay each other, continue and pay each other. We do not need any more social housing, we do not need to have the poor people always to be paid for who works, who pays taxes and who continues to support this country. I think, Mrs. Member who has a particular grace here to demand... [[Protests by the Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Member, would you like to speak up? Which immigrants? Immigrants have been paying us for a long time! [[Protests by the Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u214	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us create conditions for the end of Mr Ventura's intervention. Sir, please do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u215	I was concluding by stating, when I was wrongly interrupted, that it is curious to ask the Government for clarifications on housing policy and changes in housing policy, when they supported the last budgets of the State of the Socialist Party. Where were they when the Socialist Party approved five Budgets, all of them contradicting what they stand for in the public housing in Portugal? Why is it, now, that you're coming to do it? Now that there comes a huge money « bazouca» to Portugal, they say they want more public housing and a new generation of public housing policies!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u216	Go study! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u217	Yeah, we need housing...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u218	Mr. Deputies, please conclude. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u219	Can I finish, or do you guys want to come over here on this side?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u220	You can't finish, Mr. Deputies, you have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u221	Oh, I'm afraid to finish. [[Protests by BE and the Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u222	Mr President, have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u223	No, I didn't finish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u224	So, if you please, go on, because time continues to count.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u225	...but as you can imagine, it's not easy to talk like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u226	Mr President, or it is over, or the Bureau has to speak to you. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u227	Are you gonna take my word for it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u228	I will take the floor on you, if you do not fulfill the time, as any Member would do. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u229	I'll try to conclude, if I'm allowed to conclude, because otherwise I'm not going to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u230	Sir, you're wasting time. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u231	Well, we need public housing, but we need public housing for the middle class that was impoverished with this crisis. We need public housing for those who have been impoverished in recent years and not for those who have been paying taxes now to support a country in which half of them want to do absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u232	With no further inscriptions, we shall proceed to the vote, in the speciality, which was the subject of the request for a lawyer presented by the Left Block which we voted earlier, of the proposal for an amendment relating to Article 8. that of Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October 2020 amending Article 58. the Decree-Law No 37 / 2018, of 4 June. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the CH and the PS abstention.]] [[Article 8 of Decree-Law No 37/2018 of 4 June: (...) ‘Article 58 Annual notice Until 31 January of each year IHRU, I. P., published on the website of the Housing Portal, information on the 1st Law, which shall include: (a) the amount of the existing budgetary allocation for the allocation of new applications for financial support; (b) the percentages of the budget allocation to be allocated to each type of housing solution and/or beneficiaries; (c) the information on the form of submission of applications and obtaining clarification.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u233	Let us now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economic, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, on Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October 2020 — Suitable for instruments created under the New Generation of Housing Policies and the Organic Law of IHRU, I.P. the Housing Basics Act under the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme [ Parliamentary Assessment No 33 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), with the amendment previously approved. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against CH and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on Bills Nos 414 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Denifies the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment by clarifying its application in the situations of providing surveillance, feeding or cleaning services ( Sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code ), 448 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Introduce an interpretative standard of Article 285. that of the Labour Code, making its application mandatory for the award, by public tender, of public services services, and 503 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Defends and strengthens the rights of workers in the event of transmission of an undertaking or establishment, in the private sector or in the public sector, by awarding services which are carried out by public tender, direct adjustment or any other means envisaged. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u234	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u235	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u236	Mr President, it is to announce that we will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u237	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u238	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u239	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u240	Mr President, it is to announce that we will also present a written statement of vote on this vote. Mr. President, with regard to Bill No. 67 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), whose vote recently took place, wanted to request the waiver not only of final drafting, as I have done before, but also of the deadline for filing complaints against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u241	I believe that this has been implied, but there is no opposition, and we have obtained a positive response to this request, Mrs Deputy. Before we finish our work, the Secretary of the Bureau will make an announcement, after which I will read the agenda for the next plenary session. Please, Mrs. Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u242	Mr. President and Mr. Members : I inform the House that you were present by video conference. Sério Marques, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, and Jorge Gomes, from the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-02-11.u243	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday 18th, the plenary will meet again at 3 p.m. on several items on the agenda. At the first point, we will proceed to the debate on draft resolutions Nos 758 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to strengthen the selective collection in Portugal and 792 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends mechanisms for a reduction of urban solid waste and a tariff policy for territorial cohesion and social justice, together with, in general, Law No 639 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Reduction of packaging waste, 632 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Monitoring of Urban Waste Management Systems and defining strategies for increasing urban waste recovery and recycling, 633 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Reduction of superfluous packaging on commercial surfaces, and 529 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Promotes reduction of packaging waste and increased recycling rate. In the second point, we will discuss jointly draft resolutions Nos 238 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation and enforcement of measures to combat obesity, 763 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and combat obesity and 244 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures to combat obesity by means of health promotion and disease prevention actions that support healthy lifestyles. of the third point is the discussion of Bill 647 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Protection of the rights of workers of culture in a pandemic and economic crisis in 2021, 663 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Creates extraordinary support for cultural equipment and the culture sector, 669 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary cultural and artistic support measures and 670 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the protection of professionals in the culture sector in the context of COVID-19, generally in conjunction with the Resolution Project No 647 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures to enhance cultural professionals and submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic a legal status of the intermittent in artistic areas. In the fourth point, the Decrees-Leisn.6 - E / 2021 of 15 January, which establishes support mechanisms in the context of the state of emergency[ Parliamentary Assessments Nos. 40 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 42 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ], 8 - B / 2021, of 22 January, establishing a set of support measures within the framework of the suspension of non-permanent educational activities[ Parliamentary assessments Nos 41 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 39 / XIV / 2. a ( BE)] and 10 -A / 2021, of 2 February, which establishes exceptional mechanisms for the management of health professionals to perform care activities, within the scope of the COVID-19 disease pandemic [ Parliamentary assessment No 43 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. At the fifth point, we will discuss draft resolution No 853 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a Green Health Road. of the sixth point is the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 903 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the strategic review of curricular programs for recovery of students affected by states of emergency and 905 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Education for animal protection and welfare, together with, in general, the Bill No. 668 / XIV / 2. a (NAP) — Ensures deductibility within IRS of costs with the acquisition or repair of computers, amending the IRS Code, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November. At the seventh point, we will discuss draft resolution No 913 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Conversion into permanent contracts of nurses' contracts with precarious links in order to ensure the stability of the SNS, together with, in general, the Law Projects No 644 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Fight precarious health with the conversion of work contracts to indefinite or non-term time and 667 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Final hiring of professionals of the National Health Service with precarious links. The eighth point concerns the vote on the Rules of Procedure, which will take place at the end of the debate. It remains my wish to the Members and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of a good afternoon and a good week. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 39 minutes.]]
