ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Authorities, we're going to start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the galleries to be opened. Before we begin the first item on the agenda, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has information to provide. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u2	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Mr President, we have three opinions, sent by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which, because they are very urgent, need to be voted on at the beginning of the sitting. They have to do with lifting immunity. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, 4. the Labour Court, Case No 15475 / 20.3T8LSBA, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Cristina Rodrigues ( Nsc. ) to intervene within the framework of the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, 4. the Working Judgment, Case No 15475 / 20.3T8LSBA, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Bebiana Cunha ( PAN ) to intervene within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u6	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, 4. the Working Judgment, Case No 15475 / 20.3T8LSBA, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion authorising Member Inês de Sousa Real (PAN ) to intervene within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u8	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my duty to inform me that the President of the Republic's journey to Slovenia, Bulgaria and Spain, which had initially been approved between 30 May and 5 June, will take place on 29 May, for a meeting with the presidents of the respective countries on 30 May.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, given the change of dates, I wonder if there is any Member or Member of Parliament who objects to it. [[Pause.]] If not, the journey is still authorized.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I also announce the withdrawal by the proposer of Bill No 796 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ). They also entered the Bureau and were admitted to the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 97 / XIV / 2. a, which drops to 1. the Commission, and 98 / XIV / 2. a, which drops to 5. the Commission ; Draft Law Nos 844 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 13. the Commission, 845 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 846 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 848 / XIV / 2. a, which falls to 11. the Commission, 849 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 850 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 851 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, and 852 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission ; Draft Resolution Nos 1280 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. a, 10. a and 1. a Commissions, 1282 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1283 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1284 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1285 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1286 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1287 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 4. a and 11. a Commission, 1288 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. a and 13. a Commissions, 1289 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) down to 10. the Commission, 1290 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1291 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 9. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u11	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Members, let us begin our agenda today, together with the joint assessment of Bill No 839 / XIX/ 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthen the mechanisms for combating forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, directly responsible the whole chain of subcontracting and user companies, as well as managers, administrators and directors, of the Resolution Project No 744 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — In combating the precariousness and promotion of vocational training and qualification of agricultural work, draft Law No 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Gives the nature of the executive title to the decisions condemning the ACT and amends the procedural regime applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September 2009 and Draft Resolution No 1273 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Strengthening of means to combat exploitation. To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There had not been a public health problem, there was no decision to decree a health fence and perhaps continue to reign the public disregard and above all the invisibility of thousands of workers who spend their closed days in the concentrated area of agricultural holdings in our country. What happens to these workers or others who are subjected to subcontracting cascades and forced labor is with us. They are and they are a good part of the Alentejo population, but also of Ribatejo and other parts of the country. They grow the fruits that come to our table and feed the exports of agricultural companies. They and they are not others, they are part of the country. Odemira and the various « Odemeiras» in the country are the portrait of a business model that undermines the territory and human rights, which exposes the absence of infrastructure planning, which reveals the submission of the State to private strategies for accumulation of profit (as was shown in the rules for « storage» of workers), which results from an international division of labour based on the exploitation of immigrants through false service providers. The problem isn't right now. It was almost five years ago in summer 2016 that Parliament passed a new law to combat modern forms of forced labour. At the time, at the initiative of the Block, a debate was opened that allowed the Labour Code to introduce an amendment which aroused the fury of employers' confederations: the solidarity of the entire chain of contracts for violations of workers' rights, for claims and social charges, and for payment of their fines. The goal was to counter impunity. It was to prevent those who resort to temporary and under-contracted labour for landowners from claiming or pretending to be unaware of what is happening there from a work or agricultural holding. at that time, the size of forced labour and labour exploitation, particularly in agricultural production in the Alentejo, was known. The economic model, moreover, was no different from today's: exploitation of immigrant labour, subcontracting, exploitation of the clandestine condition of part of this labor, intensive and unsustainable agricultural production, poor housing and health conditions, owners who were now in the rental of rooms, where people were piled up, a real gold mine. The right was opposed to this amendment and the four employers' confederations issued a joint communiqué in which they said they would reject the content of the diploma vehemently, as a result of which, they claimed that employers' confederations, temporary workers' work, private employment agencies and their users are in practice banned, paying attention to the huge risk they are taking. It was awkward how the patronage representatives displayed their affection for these subcontracting schemes, real biombos through which work is precarious, makes it difficult for the inspection action and allows the end-users of the labour to wash their hands of all the violations of rights that occur in the places they are protected. Unfortunately, however, the employer's confederations were not right for so much horrendous. The application of the law was very difficult and the problem continued, with even increasing scale. In fact, more than condemnations, the agricultural companies in Odemira have had, in recent years, mainly the lambuds of tax benefits. In 2019, more than half a million euros, especially in the context of excise duties, for Atlantic Growers, now Frestia, Vitacress Portugal and Vitacress Intensive Agriculture, Discroll’s ; SudoBerry — are some of the companies that lead this list. of the work inspection, which has raised hundreds of cars, especially in the last month, the witness that comes to us is difficult. Difficulty, of course, in identifying and notifying the mafia networks headed by companies at the time, which are constituted in 48 hours, created by false entrepreneurs who function as iron heads. These companies basically exist until they are intercepted by the authorities, when they are extinguished or disappeared from the circulation, until the following day another company is formed at the time, with another worker who has become a supposed entrepreneur under the same network. This scheme has become a strategy for employers to escape from the law, because even if the Working Conditions Authority (ACT ) had caught them up, even if it had lifted the cars, even if they were to settle the debts to social security, when the inspection authorities were to make the notification of the process, there would no longer be anyone to do so. In the identified address, no company is in operation and the responsible is already partly uncertain. Without interlocutors, the process is normally filed and the impunity guaranteed. Therefore, there are still significant difficulties and also some operational resistances in realising this solidarity responsibility. The defendants in the process are companies that hire the workers and disappear and if the instructors do not empower the processes, not being able to punish these companies in the first place, they do not jointly blame the others. These blockades add up to procedural difficulties. The law of the work process that we do not require the inspector to identify immediately the owner of the holding, the whole subcontracting chain and their administrators, but should be obliged. Where the law says that identification can be made, « if possible», it must be done categorically. If the inspector or inspector does not immediately identify the agents who may be jointly responsible, then the instructor can no longer notify those who have not been identified in the car. It's not just a matter. To end impunity it is necessary to move forward towards direct accountability of the whole chain, ensuring that the owner of the farm, as well as its leaders and administrators, are directly responsible for violations of labour rights that run in the areas they protect, even if the company has already been evaporated by now. This is what we intend with this bill. Accountability of the owner of the holding must be independent of the employer's punishment. What is more, we are not inventing anything or proposing to take a path that has no precedent. See what the law defines as the responsibility of the user companies, when a temporary working company does not have what the law requires. There are those who argue, invoking the principles of criminal law, that no more can be attributed to the owner of the holding, that there must be facts that prove the collaboration of the owner of the holding, that prove that he has helped to commit those violations. This peculiar but unfortunately common reading of the law of 2016 completely limits its scope. It is very easy to say that you didn't know anything. But, frankly, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the owner of the farm is, in fact, not only complicit, but the main beneficiary of these abuses. Service providers, employers, only exist because there are those who hire them and use them. The owners of the stoves are actually the great promoters of these illicit practices, even if it is not the hand of them that holds the whip. The law should therefore punish all those who have taken advantage of illegal exploitation practices. It is therefore essential — and this is what we propose — to directly blame all the agents, so that justice be done and that we begin to end this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u13	Mr President, we have two entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u14	I am replying to the two together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u15	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Nuno Sá of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP for the presentation of these initiatives, because from then on they allow the Socialist Party to affirm its commitment to the agenda of decent work. It is fair to show the Socialist Party's work in order to defend and promote the agenda of decent work. We are the party that has most promoted the valorization and dignity of work, with concrete measures and policies that make the difference in the labour reality of Portuguese. We have always made progress in defending workers' incomes and rights. We reached agreements in social dialogue and supported our companies and employers. This has always been our policy. We will continue to extend rights, in the framework of new forms of work and in the fight against poverty and social inequalities. The Socialist Party has, at the heart of its policies, the protection of the most disadvantaged and the most fragile. There are unthinkable situations of abuse and exploitation of the most vulnerable. For this reason, the Socialist Party has increased the level of income and social responses, especially for the most disadvantaged, as well as has strengthened prevention and action on working conditions. We approved and instituted judicial mechanisms and legal instruments, such as Law No. 28 / 2016, to combat forced labour, or Law No. 63 / 2013, which allows the regularization of undeclared work, all this in a strategy to combat forced work and to protect the most fragile workers. In 2016, the Socialist Party presented a bill to combat modern forms of forced labour, which gave rise to a working group, in which, in fact, I myself participated, and I testify that the whole left parliament joined and we were able to approve a law that all recognize as a step of greater importance in combating forced labour. A correction: « all», no! The right, as in Law No 63 / 2013, as in the proposals to increase the minimum wage, voted against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The parliamentary left did what had to be done and was even able to intensify much joint work and understandings that improved the lives of the Portuguese and gave them more rights. Mrs. Members, this path on the agenda for decent work has not ended and we must continue to dignify and value work. Any form of labour exploitation is absolutely unacceptable. Let us emphasize what the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, said in this regard. When faced with serious situations, he did not hesitate to say that they are concerned with human rights, making it clear that the PS is repugnant and will do everything to put an end to angry and inhuman forms of work. We therefore consider the matter very important. We want all the contributions to improving working conditions and workers' rights. We've done a lot, but people still expect a lot of us to have a better life. These challenges, this common journey and the hope of the Portuguese deserve all our efforts. The essential question we want to leave the Left Block is the following: who is available to always put the interests of Portuguese, workers and those who need protection above all? Does the Left Block recognise this path of valuing the work we have done? Can we count on the responsibility of the Left Block to dialogue and to find solutions, without radicalism or intransigence, gathering support? Or are the left block proposals completely closed and without any possibility of dialogue and consensus? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u17	You now have the floor to Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes of the PSD for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like my first word to welcome the Block on the Left for bringing this very important issue to the debate, because we cannot forget what has happened and still goes on in Odemira. It is very interesting to hear the Socialist Party talk about the 2016 changes, when today we need to discuss further changes to the law. Why? Oh, my God! Because 2016 did not serve. More: the Socialist Party quotes Mr. Prime Minister's statements, saying that in Odemira there were, in fact, gross violations of human rights, but he is part of the same government that has a state secretary who, a year ago, said that Odemira was an example of integration. So, in terms of consistency, I think that we are talking about the Socialist Party. In fact, we welcome this intervention by the Left Block, because this is an issue that must of course be taken up with political responsibilities, because the public authorities have known for years this situation of disrespect for human rights, this degrading situation in which many people live, and the truth is that more than two years later nothing has happened. It should be noted again that, so far, there has been no political impact on the seriousness of the events. The Left Block presents this bill, in which it basically seeks to make an amendment to the 2016 amendment, which the Left Block has already recognized, in the text and the rostrum, that it has little application due to lack of means and operational difficulties. My first question is this: if the Block recognises that it is due to lack of means and operational difficulties, how will an amendment to the Labour Code solve this problem of lack of means?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u19	You didn't hear me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u20	In faith—and I do—in the good intentions of the Left Block when presenting this initiative, I wonder if it does not recognise that being in the system of responsibilities is to disappoint the State of the maximum responsibilities it has, having ignored and closed its eyes on this scandal that has been going on for years and years? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u21	Mr Soeiro has the floor to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u22	Mr President, Mr Nuno Sá, we note your statement on the importance of the subject. Obviously, the Left Block is available to work on this diploma, in the field of specialty, but we like to know whether the Socialist Party will vote in favour and what the Socialist Party thinks about this diploma, because this debate is precisely about that. Moreover, with regard to the other question, I confess that I did not understand very well, but we also note the absence of the Government in this debate, which is a legislative agenda. Even this month, we made another legislative agenda on the telework in which the Government has pointed out that, on a subject that is no less important than that of telework, which is the fight against forced labour, the Government has decided not to make a presence. of our part, we insist on what is obvious: we made a law in 2016, but we know the difficulties that this law confronts. So we understand that we need to take a step forward. That is to say, we need to pass on a solidarity responsibility, which faces the difficulties of reporting the whole chain, for a direct responsibility, because we know that those who benefit from these labour abuses, with forced labor, with this slavery, are the owners of agricultural holdings. So, the real question, I would like to return it to the Socialist Party's bench: having made this amendment to the law in 2016, is the Socialist Party available, or not, to take this step forward, i.e. to directly responsible the entire cascade of subcontractions and the owners of agricultural holdings? Mr President, we know — and I have already said above — that in recent years more than being held responsible and condemned, the State has, above all, given tax benefits to farmers. On the speech of Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes of the PSD, who said that for years the authorities have known about this problem, I would like to point out that I am sure that the PSD has also known about this problem for years. In 2016, I already knew of this problem and neither the solidarity responsibility was available to enshrine in the law. We have had discussions with the labour inspectors on the ground. at this moment, I believe there are 12 inspectors in Beja and there are others that have already been highlighted. Over the last 15 days more than 300 cars have been lifted and more than 1200 cars have been lifted for infringements in recent months. So frankly, right now, what we need is to give the inspectors who are on the ground the ability to do their job. For this reason, it is not only the ability to lift cars, but to make these processes have consequences. That's why we need to change the law. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u23	There was an inspector of the work who told us, precisely: "Give us tools to be able to take responsibility for this whole chain. Do not keep on seeking. ” Direct accountability of the entire chain is what enables you to fight impunity that has prevailed, even when there are cars, as I explained. Why? Oh, my God! Because often after the inspector takes care of the incident, the processes end up being archived, the companies disappear and the rest of the chain is not held accountable. It is with this impunity that we must end. It is necessary, Madam Member, to conclude that we do not know that the real beneficiaries of these abuses, of this slavery, of this exploitation, are the owners of the farms, are the owners of the companies, are precisely those who wash their hands, do not take responsibility, pretend that they do not know and that they continue to go unpunished throughout this process. So I ask the PSD whether it will also continue to look on the side or whether it will change position and defend the direct accountability of this whole chain, because it is not enough for us to have great declarations of intention and indignation if we, Parliament, do not do our part. The Left Block brings a concrete proposal that makes us responsible and allows us to have more conditions to combat this phenomenon. A law does not solve everything, because it has several dimensions, but at least do what is right for us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u24	For the presentation of Bill No. 847 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have an economic and social reality whose worsening goes well beyond the context of the epidemic outbreak, which has served as a pretext for the most abusive, arbitrary and illegal practices by employers. There is a widespread consideration that everything is sold and everything is bought, including human dignity. There is a brutal reality of exploitation and exploitation of labour rights, which reaches hundreds of thousands of workers and, in particular, immigrant workers. The case of Odemira, which in fact the PCP has been reporting since 2012 — they were, then, the PSD and CDS in the government — is only the tip of the iceberg. The situation affects a large number of workers, from agriculture to logistics, from fishing to industry, among many other sectors. Throughout the country it is possible to identify unacceptable situations and fundamental rights attacks. They return and intensify old forms of exploitation and situations of poverty, with alarming contours. We have tremendously violent realities in the world of work, with the imposition of exhausting work rhythms, the maintenance of low wages, wages below the poverty threshold, wage discrimination, precariousness and the demand for instruments for the legitimacy of precariousness and systematic violation of labour rights. Yes, we have a reality of undeclared and illegal work, with the exploitation of immigrant work and with situations of genuine slavery, in general, associated with labour trafficking, a reality difficult to assess in its true dimension, but which cannot serve as an excuse for the absence of intervention. We are faced with a violation of human rights and the dignity of each of these working men and women. In Portugal, the size of workers in illegal or undeclared employment situations and a continued use of temporary work for permanent functions and tasks is significant. Many of these companies use these people as free labor in high-time periods, replacing the actual needs of workers, forcing them to perform hours of 50, 60 or more hours per week. at the same time, the national reality is characterized by a reduced effectiveness of the ACT, aggravated not only by the lack of human and technical means - the announced reinforcements cannot overcome this deficiency - but also by the absence of speedy justice, with high and unjustified judicial costs and obstacles to access to legal support by the generality of workers, which prevents, in many cases, the access to justice itself and the courts. The reality of the precariousness, arbitrariness and violation of rights in our country requires the strengthening and increasing effectiveness of information mechanisms, monitoring, punishment of offenders, as well as of schemes to support workers. The CFP also brings to this debate its contribution, with a concrete proposal, identifying that, in Portugal, the labour reality indeliblely translates the gap between the legal consecration of rights and its realization, fulfilment and effective exercise. This reality is visible through disrespect, non-compliance and violation of workers' rights and is inseparable from the worsening working conditions, the precariousness of working relationships, the deregulation of hours and the facilitation and embarrassment of dismissals. It is urgent to take alternative measures to counter the destruction and degradation of labour relations and living conditions promoted by successive governments. It is urgent to stop the generalization and legitimization of precariousness, even that which is disguised as modernity and technological development, which, in fact, incorporates a strategy to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. For the CFP, it is not only possible to promote, once and for all, an effective fight that brings justice to the lives of thousands of workers who are badly exploited and subjected to brutal precariousness. There is a need to create dissuasive mechanisms for the use of these illegal practices, as well as to give the worker the possibility of using more effective means of recognition of the subordinated labour relationship through executive action. Therefore, we propose that, whenever an irregularity of unlawful recourse to the provision of services is detected by the ACT, it be given executive force to the sentencing decision, in the sense of the worker to see his or her regularized situation, not only with a simple assessment of the recognition of his or her employment relationship, with legal subordination to the employer, but also that it is immediately converted into a contract of permanent work, guaranteeing stability and rights to these workers. Precautionaryness is an individual and collective scourge that represents a serious violation of rights and requires its firm fight and eradication of all its forms. from the PCP, there are no concessions. We are on the side of employment with rights in the lives of all workers, rejecting, denouncing and combating all abuses, abuses and illegalities. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u26	You have two requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond? [[Pause.]] The Bureau notes that it will respond at the end and therefore I give the floor to Mrs Lúcia Araújo Silva of the PS for the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the CFP for bringing this initiative to debate. Defending work worthy of all is not utopia, it is justice, and the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group defend this design. Mrs. Members, following the pandemic, government priorities focus on protecting people's lives, protecting family income, employment, businesses and their workers. Within a wide range of measures for the valorization and dignity of work, I recall the increase in the national minimum wage, which, between 2015 and 2021, had an increase of 31, 7%, i.e. more than 160 €, with an increase of 245 € to the end of the legislature, reaching the value of 750 €. I also recall the fight against precariousness at work, including false green receipts, the fight against abusive recourse to internships, the fight against the use of employment contracts and social inclusion for the replacement of workers and the fight against modern forms of forced labour, the amendment of the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work and the licensing of private agencies. If relevant steps have been taken in the selectivity and focus of active employment policies, this should be continued through the promotion of social dialogue, with a view to strengthening measures to combat precariousness, reducing levels of insecurity in the labour market and the continuation of the increase in the inspection capacity of the ACT, which, in May, became available in the staff map tables 493 inspectors — the largest number of times — and 50 inspectors of extraordinary reinforcement, who went on to permanent. Mrs. Members, this is a central struggle for a more dignified society, a greater link between the ACT and other entities and the implementation of a new information system in the inspection of work is required. There is also a need to reduce levels of insecurity in the labour market, to strengthen control mechanisms in the contracting and combating illicit transfer of workers, to strengthen the powers of the ACT to combat unacceptable phenomena and all, as a society, have the guarantee of inclusion in the social protection system of 'new and old forms of work'. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been done, but we still have a way to go. I therefore leave a question to Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP : given that the discussion of the Green Paper on the Future of Work and its amendment to the Labour Code, with the strengthening of the powers of the Act, is under way, I ask the honourable Member whether the CFP is available to work on these issues in full? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u28	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, with a personalist and humanist matrix, focuses its political activity on defending human dignity. The PSD rejects forced work or any form of exploitation or slavery; the PSD is a responsible party, which does not blow to the side, Mr....
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u30	Don't whistle too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u31	...in an attack on human rights, which is abominable in any society and much more in a democratic society. Human rights have no nationality, race, sex or political ideology. Unfortunately, there are always those who do not hesitate to exploit their neighbor in an unfair, outraged, unacceptable and criminal way, which is abominable and is not part of our DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) of welcoming people and eximition in the art of receiving well and with the tradition of centuries of treating the next. The recent reports of the exploitation of immigrants shock us and demand a firm and unequivocal response from the government. But the socialist government has failed with the most unprotected, as else fails in so many things. He ignored the warnings of the socialist municipality, ignored the complaints of the trade unions, the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders) and the ACT, ignored the complaints of social communication for a long time. As always, he ignored what bothers him, ignored what could not be ignored. These situations, which are clearly serious and urgent, are the exception rather than the rule and are not confined to a region or sector. However, even on the spot, they must be fought without complacency and without hesitation and the government and the left cannot move the media wave to create diplomas that they pretend to resolve, but do not resolve. It's not naive, but it's illusory. To want to legislate what is legislated and to the extent it is to leave the government's inaction and incompetent and no solution as to who is literally being treated badly in the skin. It's inhuman! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what the country needs is for the government to enforce existing laws. If the government had made the inspections it must and should do so, none of this would have happened. Once again, the left-wing parties, instead of requiring the government to create means and encourage the monitoring of activities, are merely to blame companies and entrepreneurs, who are wealth-generating and who feel the difficulties of the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u32	They're exploring! It's them!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u33	Yes, because the non-compliant are an exception and you cannot confuse the tree with the forest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u34	The solution is to have a government that works and enforces the legislation. To do this, it must implement robust supervision and provide human and technical means. And no, it's not 50 ACT inspectors that solve the problem. The solution goes through the strengthening of the ACT and the creation of integration policies for immigrants. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira, is the Communist Party available to take this path? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u35	In response to the two requests for clarifications just made, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u36	Mr President, I thank Mrs Lúcia Araújo of the PS and Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PS for the questions. Mrs. Lúcia Araújo, I should like to start by recalling that, in the last revision to labour legislation, the PS has increased the experimental period to 180 days. This is not a fight against precariousness, quite the contrary, it is a promotion of precariousness, as, in fact, the last year demonstrated clearly, since there were many workers in the experimental period who were the first to be dismissed on the pretext of the epidemic outbreak. Therefore, this is not a fight against precariousness. Combating precariousness is effectively taking the options that mean that for all permanent needs there is an effective bond for all workers and that stability is guaranteed in their lives. Mrs Deputies, we have hundreds of thousands of workers in our country to meet the permanent needs that continue to be precarious, and the PS government cannot ignore this either. On the matter of the ACT, the honourable Member spoke of the strengthening of inspectors and it was also important to talk about the strengthening of senior technicians, which the CFP, in fact, proposed in the framework of the State budget. The truth is we made a proposal for the reinforcement of 200 ACT inspectors, 200 superior technicians, which the PS and PSD have incapacitated. Mrs Olga Silvestre spoke about strengthening the means of the Act, but the PSD, when she had the opportunity to approve the proposal of the CFP, within the State budget, contributed to its rejection. Therefore, it is soon seen that the PSD is not really interested in strengthening the ACT, as it has never been at all times in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u37	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u38	Mrs Olga Silvestre, let me just remind you of a historic journey. The PSD didn't just blow to the side, the CDS didn't just blow to the side. PSD and CDS have heard mucos since 2012, when the PCP reported all the situations that happened in Odemira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u40	Moreover, Mrs Deputy, the PSD and the CDS, in 2013, contributed with legislative amendments to facilitate the practice of abuses and illegalities in the agencies that placed workers, Mrs Deputy. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u41	It is your legacy: precariousness and exploitation of workers. For that path, there is no PCP here. Our way is to defend the rights of all workers, the right to full employment, the right to stability in everyday life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u42	To present the Resolution Project No. 1273 / XIV / 2. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Bloc for having scheduled the need to strengthen the mechanisms for combating forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, proposals which we globally follow, as well as the proposal from the CFP. We follow because, already long ago, but especially now, when we talk about, for example, the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina, we do not only talk about the problem of intensive agriculture and the proliferation of plastic that invades this Natural Park, we also talk about the thousands of agricultural workers who are victims of illegal immigration aid networks, trafficking in people and even of strong suspicions of slavery. Unfortunately, Odemira is not a single case. Just look at what continues to happen in the Tagus Estuary, with the illegal catch of the ameijoa, a business controlled by organized criminal networks involving thousands of immigrants who, in addition to being deeply exploited, are systematically cohabited. There are no receipts, no purchase or sale, no taxes, no licenses, which, in many cases, should not be possible, since ameijoa, in some of these places, is contaminated with heavy metals and, therefore, the catch is prohibited there. Many of these seafarers live in places without the minimum of dignity and without any sanitary conditions, such as in Odemira, and in some cases even worse, and are also victims of illegal immigration and trafficking aid networks. That is, in Odemira, in the Tejo Estuary, in the Ribatejo and in many other regions of the country, labor exploitation has behind chains of hiring, subcontracting and provision of services that, seeking to distort the normal working relationship, still allow to disperse the track of accountability for the most varied violations of the legislation. This calls for a serious fight against this serious problem of wide precariousness, which has often still associated labour-trafficking networks, taking advantage of the fragility of migrant workers who have arrived in our country. These precarious workers take lower wages than others, are unaware of their rights and are subject to complete deprotection. We are talking about situations that reflect the precariousness that has come to represent a recurring practice and which spreads through the most diverse areas of the country, in the fields but also in factories and other sectors. With high levels in the primary sector, it is true, but with an expression in many others, precariousness is today too present and is almost institutionalized as a way of deresponsibility of the employer and stressing the degradation of the living conditions of those who are forced to work without rights. thus, the worker loses across the line, loses rights, or does not even get them, loses job security and loses wages. In fact, false green receipts, because they are false, constitute a true lie and contracts in the long term, as well as temporary employment contracts, employment and insertion contracts, professional internships, occupations of free time that aim to satisfy permanent needs, are not substantially neither contracts in the long term, nor temporary employment contracts, nor inclusion contracts, nor professional internships, are literally fraud. In view of this scenario, however, this House cannot remain indifferent to what is happening and should engage in a real struggle to put an end to falsehood and contractual lies in labour relations. what is involved is to put truth in the link that is established in labour relations, because if those who work do their part fulfill their obligations, they respect the law, the same is required of employers, in particular as regards the observance of labour laws. Mrs. Members, Law No 28 / 2016, which has been mentioned several times, aims to hold the company that resorts to intermediaries to seek to escape their responsibilities in the relationship of work, with which, in fact, it is benefited, but this law has not, in itself, solved the problem that remains at the origin of the relationship of work. The truth is that agricultural owners, large agro-industries, factories or logistics companies, among others, seek to hide behind those who hire workers and do not want to assume responsibilities or on the conditions under which the labour is hired or even on working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u44	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u45	But these workers actually occupy permanent jobs and must therefore be supported by an effective employment contract, as is the result of Article 12. the Labour Code. On the other hand, Article 140 also tells us. the same Code that the term of employment contract can only be concluded and is only admissible for the satisfaction of temporary needs, objectively defined by the employer, and only for the period strictly necessary for the satisfaction of these needs. It follows that widespread practice today is the use of contracts of a precarious nature, which represents gross violations of the law, particularly labour law. In the light of these facts, and in the light of the Authority's own 2018 Working Conditions Activity Report, which tells us that of the 261 participations made to the Public Prosecutor, 70 % refers to the improper use of service contracts, The Greens believe that the fight against labour exploitation requires substantial strengthening of the Working Conditions Authority's means, with a view to carrying out more inspection actions to acknowledge the existence of these situations, and also to strengthen the means of the Public Ministry to follow up complaints made, with a view to actions for the recognition of the existence of labour contracts or not. This is exactly the meaning of the legislative initiative that the Greens are now presenting, which must be understood as a contribution to ensuring work with rights and to remove from our reality falsehood and lies in labour relations. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u46	You have the word, for presentation of the Resolution Project No. 744 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — To combat the precariousness and promotion of vocational training and qualification of agricultural work, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The forced work and the labour abuse we are discussing here is also a consequence of the agricultural model that the country is resorting to; it is also a consequence of the agricultural policy that applies at national level. This intensive, unmeasured agriculture, which runs from north to south the country step by step, promoting the uniformization of the landscape, the destruction of biodiversity, based on monocultures, which destroys resources and weakens its workers, is an agriculture of logic « mining», which exploits, which exhausts resources and does not leave work outside. Exhausts to the end and soon remains in each territory after the destruction of these soils, after work abuse on the Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejano and the Costa Vicentina. And after the destruction there is, what will remain there? Oh, my God! There is a ‘zero’ commitment by the promoters of these projects to the rehabilitation and protection of the environment. If we look at point to point we see greenhouses in Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina, but it is not only: there is the olive and the superintensive almond in the Alqueva, the horticulture in the West and the Ribatejo, the harvests in the Douro, the fruit and vegetables in the West and the Ribatejo, which are also flooded with migrant work, in many circumstances with bad working conditions and living conditions. This is a work model that makes way throughout agriculture and related activities. It is therefore impossible not to see the reality and its consequences, because this subcontracted work model, based on migrant and non-specialized workers, without the possibility of specialization of work and qualification, has immense environmental damage. It is impossible to know an agrarian ecosystem, work on it and reduce environmental damage if there is no memory, and this memory is done with collective work that brings together workers and creates learning to manage these agrarian ecosystems. in this context, in which people spend very little time in their workplaces, there is no hypothesis of specialization or application of technological progression that solves the environmental problems we know today. In addition to the socio-economic catastrophe that it represents, we look at the problems of overloading schools, hospitals and many public services in these regions, which are also the result of choices from past governments. These models are dually destructive: they are destructive from the environmental and social point of view, but they are also destructive of public support, because these huts, these containers where workers live and the stoves they host are financed by public support from the common agricultural policy. They are investments with 30 % to 50 % of public support, in addition to free water: after 2500 million euros to build the Alqueva, cubic meters are delivered to production models which are harmful from the point of view of the public interest and to the territory. That is why the Left Block brings to this plenary not only proposals to increase the supervision and accountability of the promoters of forced labour as it brings concrete proposals for the agricultural policy that is approaching. The common agricultural policy must cease to deliver public money to those who promote forced labour and precariousness, there must be annual minimum targets for the qualification of agricultural workers, there must be the possibility of structures representing workers, trade unions and others, influence the levels of support that are allocated, in addition to a large national programme for training. These are all the proposals we have brought today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u48	The Bureau registered two Mrs. Members to ask for clarification, and the honourable Member has informed you that he wishes to respond together. Therefore, you have the floor for the first request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by welcoming the Left Block for the initiative it brings us here and I take advantage of it, Mr Deputies, to raise a question which arises with one of the aspects which it began to mention in its speech. One of the problems that is underlying the subject we are discussing is the fact that the production model in our country today is mostly intensive and superintensive. The NAP has long been defending the suspension of the installation of this type of production, including monocultures, and the placing of intensive greenhouses in the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina, until there are adequate planning plans for this territory and regulating this activity. in this sense, this is one of the reasons why the work is essentially temporary, precisely because of the nature of the cultures themselves—and from there the question of not respecting the cycles and natural resources, as also mentioned, cycles which, if they were respected, would allow us to have another nature and another temporality, from the point of view of the work, throughout the year — we use to ask the Block of Left if this is the case that it will follow the NAP initiative for the immediate and provisional suspension of the new intensive or superintensive agricultural facilities in the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and the Costa Vicentina, until the implementation of necessary measures to prevent this scourge we have been witnessing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u50	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to ask, firstly, whether the Left Block feels no responsibility for the fact that Odemira today had 229 housing containers, which were decided by the Socialist Government, in a budget that was supported by the Left Block and the Communist Party. that is what we should remember here today. So I wonder if Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u52	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u53	It's not a lie, sir, no! Just look at the story and see that the Left Block approved the Budget where the 229 housing containers were planned that were placed there.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u54	I haven't read the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u55	In fact, a short time ago, the government reminded you that, in the skirts of lovers between Government and Block of the Left, it reminded you that you supported this very thing! But I would like to ask you now, Mr President, if you do not think that, apart from banning public funds for agricultural enterprises, the Left Block has responsibility for the immigration law that has been approved and that has allowed people without a job contract, without a job promise, to come to Odemira, as they would come to Ribatejo and to other parts of the country. Now it appears here to say « we must end this», when « this» derives from your action and derives from what you have provoked, and they are provoking, in the south and within the country. So, what is the responsibility of the Left Block in this matter? It is now easy to say: « Cut the support of these companies ». And what happens to these workers? What happens to these companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u56	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u57	I will finish, Mr. President. We would like to know whether or not the Left Block recognises its share of responsibility in the tragedy that is taking place in Odemira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u58	Mr. Ricardo Vicente, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u59	Mr President, Mr Ventura, you must start by reading the documents before you refer to them, because the State budget has made nothing possible in relation to the abusive situation in which these migrant workers are found. It is strange that the honourable Member, who speaks so much in bandits, cannot, in this situation, identify who are the bandits in question, who trafficked people, who abuse them, in particular to promote their profits. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President, the only thing I have been able to say about these people was that they are immigrant Muslims and that they are a danger to our women. The honourable Member does not make any contribution to solving the problem in particular, merely to humiliate people who work and seek better living conditions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the Left Block accompanies the need to suspend the installation of intensive crops, not only the greenhouses in the Southwest Alentejano but also the olive and the superintensive almond, which need to be suspended, and concrete rules must be created to stop them at this time, and to regulate some of their activities, for which the Left Block also has, at this time, projects awaiting discussion and voting here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u60	We are now in the process of intervention. I begin by giving the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming not only the Left Block but the other political forces, not only because they have brought this issue to the Assembly of the Republic today, but also the different proposals that allow us to have a debate about a problem that, as was clear and clear, Odemira is only a sample of the reality that we have, not being exclusively in the region, problems with migrants, housing or agricultural workers. Unfortunately, these are structural problems, demonstrating various situations that have occurred a little across the country. One of these problems is, without doubt, forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, problems for which the NAP has long been alerting and which today are discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. This problem, although it has now aroused greater interest, is not entirely new and the strengthening of mechanisms to combat forced labour and labour exploitation are absolutely essential to complete it. That is precisely why the NAP has ensured in this State budget the strengthening of the means affected, in this case, of the former SEF and the Judicial Police, precisely to monitor and ensure greater supervision in the fight against trafficking in human beings. Moreover, integration processes cannot continue to flout a wall of bureaucracy. This is also a problem that needs to be solved upstream because these people, when exposed to a bureaucratic mesh that extends over time their status of regularization or even their integration, are subject, as we well know, to situations of precariousness or social fragility and even humanitarian. The legislative initiative brought by the Left Block aims to strengthen the accountability of the entire chain of hiring and subcontracting used in agricultural holdings, often using the Company in Time, with companies titled by false entrepreneurs who function as mere railway tests. However, it seems to us that this problem needs to be solved up-to-date and, in this sense, we also follow the concern raised by the ENP regarding the strengthening of the means of the Act. We believe that mechanisms should be created that encourage direct recruitment, particularly through employment grants involving the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional), because there seems to be a fundamental problem that goes far beyond us and that is not only solved by penalties and accountability, but for example by accreditation of these companies as a form of prior control and necessarily by strengthening the means of ACT and inspectors, notably the Judicial Police. I cannot fail to mention that the NAP has introduced a bill establishing the urgent measures to be taken to update and comply with the Plan of Management of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina, providing for the immediate and provisional suspension of new intensive or superintensive agricultural facilities in the Natural Park. Sometimes we have to assume that we have to take a step back and breathe. And that's exactly what we have to do now: go back, think and regulate, before we continue to build a giant with a head of gold and feet of clay. If this is valid for the environmental issue, it must also be valid for labour issues. Will it make sense to focus solely on the application of fines and accountability of the contract chain or, rather, to limit access to that same chain at the start in this sector, which has already proved conducive to labour exploitation? We have to go to the root of the problem and not fix it. If we have companies that resort entirely and repeatedly to unlimited subcontracting of workers or if all of their workers are outsourced, the reality is that these companies have more extensive human resources recruitment needs in time, even if this is a temporary and seasonal need. The fact is that the Labour Code provides for a term contract exactly for these cases whose activity is seasonal or with an irregular annual cycle, so before proceeding with mechanisms that enable this access to constant subcontracting, which makes it difficult to apply the law and the control activity itself, it seems to us that it would be important to limit access to these gray areas and these legal subterfuges that allow the sector to remain in constant precariousness and, in the specific case of migrants, that puts them at the mercy of exploitation or of human trafficking networks. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we well know that we have a long way to go in combating trafficking in human beings in their multiple dimensions, not only in the labour dimension but also in trafficking in sexual exploitation or even in minors. This is a problem to which the legislator cannot continue to turn his face. In addition to this debate, it is necessary to close the legislative process in some way, not just to penalize or to hold them accountable. It is necessary to limit access to subcontracting and to make the contract chain more transparent and simplified, above all, in the integration of these migrants and workers themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u62	For an intervention, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, of course, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups who have made this legislative agenda on the subject of labour exploitation, not only for regulating labour relations but also for human rights. The truth is, because of our demographic winter, many sectors of economic activity, from agriculture to tourism, through fishing, through civil construction, through the services sector, can only survive thanks to immigrant labour. Unfortunately, the labour exploitation of migrant workers, whether seasonal or not, is a phenomenon that has to be fought with all force and this is not just a matter of law or its application because we have had autos of counter-ordination and condemnation. As far as immigrant workers are concerned, since 2007, which has existed in our law, which has even been very pioneering in comparative terms, the solidarity responsibility of the entire contract chain, from the user to the temporary work firm, for payment of wage credits, labour counter-ordinations, for counter-ordinations to social security, for tax counter-ordinations. Also since 2007, any immigrant who has been a victim of trafficking in human beings or labour exploitation has the right not only to support the State but also to a residence permit allowing him to escape from the continuation of the crimes he is a victim. On the other hand, since 2012, the employer, if a mere migrant labour user in an irregular situation is the victim of particularly abusive working conditions, commits a crime that is punished with imprisonment between one and five years. That is to say, we have legislation to deal with this situation, which is unignoble, but the truth is that situations of labour exploitation of immigrants persist and it is necessary to go up to the problem and create legal immigration pathways that allow to meet labour needs, whether seasonal or not, ensuring the elimination of intermediaries and ensuring conditions of decent reception. Therefore, contrary to what Mr Ventura says, all the amendments to the immigration law aimed precisely at giving these people dignity and allowing them to escape the exploitation they are subject to. That is why, also in 2017, by the hands of the Socialist Party, a legal regime was introduced which allows seasonal immigrant workers to be hired from the outset, which imposes a number of obligations on employers, from wages and social rights to housing conditions themselves, to ensure that these people are not exploited. Therefore, it is time for employers themselves to resort to these legal regimes and legal immigration channels that respect human rights and adhere to them, instead of resorting to these man-made schemes that generate vulnerability and that are unacceptable. It is time for all of us to internalize it and when I say « all of us» I am not referring only to the state, we are also consumers, who, whenever we buy blueberries or raspberries, we must demand that companies that sell them also comply with the legislation they have at their disposal. Therefore, it is time for all of us to internalize that respect for human rights is an inalienable value. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u64	The Bureau shall record two entries for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u65	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u66	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, when we look at the phenomenon of forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, we can do so in two ways, analyzing it in a global way or analyzing it in a particular way. The CDS prefers — and will always do so — to analyze it in a complete way and not just look at one part. We do not know that in Portugal — and not only in the Alentejo nor, much less, in the agricultural sector — alleged practices of labour and forced labour can occur and that many of them are about immigrant workers, but it is important to know, first of all, why it is about these workers. These workers, as we can see, are in a more vulnerable, more susceptible, more unprotected situation, and are therefore mostly the target of these abuses. Mrs Deputies, a country like Portugal, with its history, particularly in terms of emigration — I believe that all of us, ladies and gentlemen, have, directly or indirectly, someone who has been linked to emigration — must be able to welcome those who receive dignity and, whether or not you are willing, only if there is a control of minimum guarantees in order to be able to provide conditions for the way in which they are received. By Law No 59 / 2017, which the honourable Member mentioned recently, the residence permit for the exercise of subordinated professional activity became dependent only on a mere manifestation of interest presented in the SEF, it was not necessary, even if a contract of employment, merely a promise of employment contract. The CDS and SEF were very critical of this legislative amendment in 2017. We have warned of the dangers arising there, especially for the deprotection and fragility of immigrants in the face of this legislative amendment, which has happened, unfortunately. As it was expected, in the area of freedom of movement of the European Union, the number of immigrants to apply for residence permits in Portugal. [[Protests from BE Beatriz Gomes Dias.]] Worse, Mrs Member : Unfortunately, it was not only the immigrants who did so but above all the networks that exploited them criminally. As an example, I wanted to leave you some numbers. in a single week, soon after the law was published in 2017, 4073 new applications entered, most of them with work contract promises, a value that largely exceeded the average of about 300 weekly applications registered in the previous law. An increase of 1300 %, Mrs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we want to combat forced labour, we must go to its beginning and we must not ignore the unprotected form as the current law of entry into Portugal, approved by the Socialist Party, leaves those who want to come to work for our country. I would like to ask the honourable Member if she does not consider it necessary, particularly for the protection of immigrants, to resume the existing regime until 2017 and to be compulsory for the existence of a work contract. Certainly none of this happened in Odemira and elsewhere in the country would happen, on the scale at which it happened, if we had the regime prior to the law of 2017. A simple manifestation of interest, not even if there is a compulsory employment contract, will be the main cause of all the problems happening in Odemira and the exploitation of immigrants, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u68	So much not to talk about businessmen!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u69	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is never more confirmed in this House that for the PSD any form of exploitation of labour, forced labour, slave labour is condemned. That is why the subject under discussion is particularly relevant to us, because it is at stake a gross violation of human rights, which we reject and condemn. Undeclared and illegal work, exploitation of immigrant work, with situations of genuine slavery and labour trafficking are a problem that is not now. Back in time, already Soeiro Pereira Gomes, in the book Esteiros, denounced this type of practices with children and men enslaved in the river Tejo. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what happens in Odemira, in the West of our country, in the Tejo estuary, more precisely in Samouco, Alcochete and Barreiro, where immigrants flourish who work and live in very precarious situations, in a true setting of slavery, hostages of organized groups, is unacceptable in democratic Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u71	It is unacceptable in Portugal that, together with 49 Member States of the International Labour Organization ( ILO ), ratified the Protocol on Forced Labour. The left, which is complicit in the abuses that occur, since the problem is old and known, tries today to legislate to alleviate consciences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u73	...making propaganda to defend the unjust, but if no one enforces this legislation it will all remain the same. In addition, the left also uses to launch anathema on businesses and intensive agriculture, which are particularly expensive to them. However, it is important to emphasize that most companies comply with rules and agriculture, in addition to the basic but essential function, that of food, create jobs and wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u74	All right! [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the moment, there is a need to strengthen and increase the effectiveness of information and monitoring mechanisms, i.e., the lack of legislation is not at stake, but to monitor compliance with the laws. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u76	The PSD welcomed Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security for the announcement she made in this Parliament last week of 50 inspectors for the Act, an announcement which, however, was late because it was already a promise made in 2015 by Vieira da Silva. For the PSD, the dignity of the human person, in particular with regard to work, is a cause which everyone must unite, demanding of the government, more than plans, words, promises and announcements, the taking of concrete measures that contribute to the monitoring of working conditions in order to put an end to situations that affect human dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u78	in this sense, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, I ask you: will the Socialist Party approve the proposals presented today, a set of hypothetical solutions that have not been discussed in the context of social consultation? Or will the Socialist Party finally promote a serious and constructive discussion on such important matters? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the subject under discussion, the next step must be the strengthening of supervision. Only in this way will we be able to prevent and eradicate forced labour, a scourge of our society, which the PSD considers a serious violation of human rights, intolerable in a rule of law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u79	In reply, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u80	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mr Pedro Morais Soares saying the following: it is wrong, Mr, that it was not the amendments to the law that led to greater precariousness. In fact, if these changes had not been made, many of these people would be in a situation of much greater vulnerability than they are today — do not have the slightest doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u82	It's just illegality is precarious. Were they here? Of course they were here! Or do you think the strawberries in the stoves would stop being harvested? Oh, my God! Of course, they would not stop being harvested. Or don't you think he's gonna get it? Oh, my God! For God's sake! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests of BE, CDS-PP and CH.]] Don't be a hypocrite! Of course we need immigrant labour and we need to give them conditions. But the first condition is that of its legalization, because, without being legalized in Portugal, how can there be credible integration policies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u84	Therefore, this legislation was not a cause of precariousness. On the contrary, it has allowed a very significant number of people, who are necessary in our country, to legalize their situation. With regard to the question put by Mrs Fernanda Velez, of course the Socialist Party, as a party which considers forced work unworthy, does not just stand by the words and will value the proposals that are on the table, will discuss them and is open to discuss them seriously. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u85	Again, pretend they do!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u86	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u87	Mr President, I want to start by providing data that many of the people who want to criminalize immigration are trying to hide. Immigrants who do not have their regular status, who have lived for more than six years in some cases in Portugal, have contributed EUR 88 million to social security, having received only EUR 111 million. I mean, this is the net balance of migrant people's contribution to the country's wealth. And this is very important to know what they receive in return. In return, they receive their situation in the suspended country, their lives suspended, because there are no mechanisms that allow their regularization. This is the first point I wanted to bring to the collation so that I can refocus the debate. The debate must be in the people who are being exploited and also in those who exploit these people, who do not pay them decent wages and who subcontract them not to be held responsible for this exploitation situation, which has been maintained for years. This situation is not new, it has already been mentioned several times, and it is not exclusively an attack on human rights. It is, of course, an attack on human rights, because these people live in unhealthy conditions, with their wages retained in many cases, without being paid accommodation in overcrowded houses and without being paid transport, but it is also a matter of dignity of work and the guarantee of the rights of the workers and their workers. These workers and these workers contribute, every day, with the strength of their work to the technological, cultural and economic development of our country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u89	... and receive in exchange a set of preconceived ideas, stigmatization and preconceived divisions, which, in our country, identifies them as criminal persons or victims of crime. They are victims of crime in many cases and we need to monitor this, but on the other hand, these people come to Portugal looking for better living conditions. That is what we should answer, that is what we should look at and that is what they expect of us, because their lives deserve to be treated with dignity, their work deserves to be respected and their wages deserve to be dignified. This is what we are discussing here: ways and measures to end the exploitation of these people and the precariousness they are subject to. Each year data is published according to which foreign people in Portugal receive, on average, less € 100 than Portuguese people, when they perform the same functions. So we need to correct that. We need to end this salary gap that exists among those who come to Portugal, who work in Portugal and who contribute to the richness of the country and those who exercise the same functions and who have Portuguese nationality. So let us end the misconceptions in this debate, let us end the misinformation and give decent rights to people who live with us, in our national community, and who contribute to the wealth and development of this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u90	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Agriculture has been the poor relative of the Portuguese economy. And yet agriculture grows, modernizes itself, sets populations and does more for the inside than the hollow words of a centralist government or a left-wing urban focus and unaware of the reality of the rural world. There are parties here who cannot, or do not want, realize that agriculture, growth, development of people, their lives and decent working conditions and even—it is impossible! — preservation of the environment is not only not inconclusive as they can walk side by side. The dogmatism and myopia of these parties prevents them from admitting solutions of commitment or broad consensus. They prefer to continue stigmatizing farmers and farmers, they prefer to insist on false dichotomy between agriculture and tourism or between development and the environment. Is it essential to strengthen the monitoring of the working conditions of agricultural workers? Yeah. Is it urgent to draw from legislation incentives for the use of companies that exploit and abuse workers? Yeah. Is it necessary to take care of the preservation of the environment and the use of water and other natural resources? Yeah. Is it important to give agriculture the relief it deserves to continue to contribute to our growth? Yeah. It is possible and desirable to reconcile all these interests, but this can only be done by consensus between workers, farmers and local populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u92	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u93	It will not be, Mr President, by any centralist sitting in Lisbon who has decided to create more levels of decision, far from the ground. And the proposals that provide for this will have our vote against. [[Protests from BE Beatriz Gomes Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u94	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we have been watching in the last two months was predictable since 2011 and was also visible since 2016, and that is why the Left Block alerted at the time. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the mass migration of workers to cities with job offer also occurred in several periods of history. The most documented has been that of the Industrial Revolution, when thousands of peasant migrants raced to the cities of Porto, Lisbon, Setúbal and Covilhã, in our country, to work. And there was at that time what we should be able to avoid: lack of planning and infrastructure in the cities, capable of welcoming the workers; workers in poor conditions, for very high incomes; workers housed in the hosts of the hosts, in a mimetization of the feudal regime; exploitation, inslubrity, overcrowding, diseases. Any similarity with Odemira, Alentejo or Ribatejo is, in fact, the story to repeat itself. In the 19th century, inventory was made and the construction of working villages was promoted. In the 21st century, the answer must be up to what we have learned in the past: neither the market nor the owners will solve the problem. But we cannot fail to blame the employers for wages of misery, to which they often still subtract speculative incomes in exchange for tuguri. We already know that the living conditions of these and other workers are a public health problem, in addition to being evident situations of exploitation, slavery and denial of human rights. We also know that the owners did not change the conditions, even with the exorbitant income they practice. The income from these workers would already have ensured living conditions, so they should be penalized for hosting people in a inhumane way in their properties, against the law, against the Constitution and against human rights. There is therefore clearly a need and even legitimacy for the State to request, rehabilitate and make available in the State-controlled income programs. Temporary dwellings can also be built on the city's own land, ensuring access to public services, transport, sanitation infrastructure, territorial inclusion and, moreover, to the stability that anyone deserves. These workers may work in various areas of the country or even the Peninsula, but, like anyone, they need a space with stability and an area of belonging, habitability and health. Timers in one place also need stabilization and roots. In a depopulated breath, it cannot be said that there is no room for it. And, yes, it must and may be. There are empty schools, unoccupied dwellings, social support services also unemployed, abundant land and, now, there are also underused tourist spaces. If there is political courage, we can in fact change the way of understanding work and housing, leaving the feudal and slave models where they should be, which is in the past. And, I mean, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's more than time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by leaving a compliment to the absent Government, for the importance it attaches to this debate. The PSD, as a personalist and humanist party that is, has, as always had, man and human rights in the centrality of his concerns and policies. Forced labour, new forms of slavery, as well as rightsless work, ranging from situations of sexual exploitation to agricultural work, are at the heart of our concerns. In addition, the PSD/CDS Government has signed the 2014 Protocol to the Convention on Forced Labour, now ratified, which recognises that "the prohibition of forced or compulsory labour is one of the fundamental rights, and that forced or compulsory work constitutes a violation of human rights and an attack on the dignity of millions of women and men, girls and boys, contributes to the perpetuation of poverty and makes it difficult to carry out a decent work for all". This desire must be guaranteed through concrete measures to combat modern slavery in all its forms, both in the field of prevention, protection and rehabilitation, and through the supervision of work and other services protecting farm workers, as well as by sanctioning the abusive and fraudulent practices of recruiters and employment agencies. The Left Block has scheduled this debate on forced labour, which, at first sight, seems to be a well-intentioned debate, revealing genuine concern for human rights and therefore deserving of greater support from the PSD. Unfortunately, this kindness is only apparent, because if we look at the initiatives under discussion today, we can quickly see that this debate refers to everything but a genuine concern for human rights, but only to an attack on agricultural production. [[BE's protests.]] Moreover, in a tone that has been used to us, the Block and Left, the PCP and also the ENP, particularly in the case of Odemira — which, in fact, the PSD has been accompanying, drawing attention and presenting initiatives —... [[BE's protests.]] ... instead of worrying about the government's lack of action, the lack of supervision, the lack of responses to housing, which allows decent housing for migrants, the lack of responses to the level of spatial planning, the lack of response to public services, the lack of SEF response capacity to monitor traffic networks of people, the lack of ACT personnel to monitor working conditions, the lack of a multisectoral approach to allow the integration of migrants into host communities, what do they do? They ignored the great 'elephant in the room' and tried to solve the problems of non-application of existing laws with new laws! That is how, without hearing the parties, without hearing anyone, disrespecting everything and all and, above all, social consultation. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, is well exemplified by this paradigm of the proposed parties of the initiatives, which, under the cover of concern for human rights, take advantage to demand new labour laws, which penalise businesses and agricultural entrepreneurs in order to achieve their great aim, which is to end production agriculture in the Perimeter of Rega do Mira, in the Alentejo, in the West and the Demarcad region of Douro escapes, and ultimately they want to end with the main food supply chain of the Portuguese. The explanatory statements of the diplomas under discussion convey the real motivation of the proposers, an ideological prejudice on agricultural production and a disregard for productivity and work. With the desire to combat companies that create wealth and are competitive, which generate jobs also sustainable and lasting, they ignore the reality of agricultural work. Yes, because agricultural work, measured in the Agricultural Labour Unit, has broken by 85 % over the last 70 years, as it is easy to understand and, indeed, to explain. Currently, it is estimated that the weight of those not registered in the sector is more than two thirds of the work in agriculture, reflecting that of the part-time work regime, compared to full-time work. Indeed, in recent decades, the strengthening and expansion of several agricultural systems have given greater dimension to the use of possible work, in particular in operations where large labour needs are concentrated in limited periods of work — a phenomenon which, in fact, resumes the so-called'migrant ranches' within Portugal. The use of migrant labour has an unmistakable dimension in an increasingly ageing country and with an increasingly impoverished territory, because, despite its great social and statistical invisibility, it is very visible and must be seen by public policy with the seriousness and dignity it deserves, but which cannot be achieved with these initiatives. That is not the objective of the initiatives. [[PSD applause.]] However, and in view of this reality which is not new, at least for the PSD, which has been struck by this fight against inequalities, the Block, instead of contributing to the solution, presents itself in this debate with a retrograde posture, full of sovereignty and that does not bring benefits to the work, neither to the workers, nor to businesses, nor to the community—for anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u99	They use shocking and condemnable cases to generalize what is happening in agricultural work, which is not serious and is not fair to employers or employees. In fact, the lack of honesty is such that they associate the possible breakdown of food quality with precariousness at work, extravagant for environmental concepts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD does not see itself in the direct association of slave work and without rights to the agricultural sector, which all projects present. We do not believe or accept that they are all treated equally, because we are a party that values the person in his work and in his social integration. Of course, we all condemn forced labour and the terrible networks of human trafficking and defend the fight against all forms of exploitation. However, it must clearly be distinguished that fulfilling companies, which, in fact, intend to give conditions to their workers of various nationalities, due to lack of national labour, to whom they attribute the success of production, offering them a decent and appropriate accommodation, to those who are prevaricating companies and, as such, must be implacable in their condemnation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u100	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u101	In the case of Odemira so much spoken, the state was omitted and failed! And it is in this lack of government action that we must concentrate our forces on combating all forms of exploitation, with seriousness and without demagogy. For this way of combating government failures and guaranteeing the realization of human rights, it is with the PSD. For demagogy and political-party agendas, just not! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u102	Mrs Deputy, two Mrss have been written. Members for requests for clarification. I wonder how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u103	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u104	To ask for clarification, I begin by giving the floor to Mr João Dias of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, the CFP today brings to debate a bill that confers the executive title on the final decisions of the ACT. Allow me, from the very outset, to begin with an issue which I think the honourable Member will have great pleasure in responding. Mrs. Deputy, who shouldn't, don't be afraid. If, in fact, as you have defended in the initial intervention, companies are fulfilling, if agricultural companies are fulfilling, what is the problem in terms of legislation which defends and protects workers? What does the PSD think to do about this PCP initiative? Is it available to accompany the CFP in strengthening the rights of workers, in particular those workers who are subject to a situation of exploitation, to a situation that has reached borders of inhumanity, as everyone recognizes? The truth is that everyone says they don't accept, they all say they repudiate, but there are those, like those on the right-hand side, who say they don't accept and repudiate, but then they facilitate abuse and illegality. On the contrary, the CFP does not accept, repudiate, combat precariousness, fight inequality, and the honourable Member knows that. We can ask ourselves: is this situation current, is new, is it recent? No, it's not! It has more than 10 years of evolution, then responsibilities of the PSD and also of the PSD/CDS government. Is this a situation that concerns only agricultural workers? Don't! Several areas, various sectors of the economy also confront this problem, as we have said today. Is it only a health problem, that is, is it solved how the health care facility was resolved? Don't! He continues and remains. Is this one housing problem? Don't! It is a problem of labour exploitation, it is also a problem of trafficking in human beings, which must be combated. Will Odemira's or Alentejo's problem be, solely and exclusively, as your bench said, just punctual? Don't! It is transversal to the country, because it results from what has been political behavior and options. Let me remind you of what Mrs Rita Rat said in 2016. Recalling what the PSD did, in particular in 2013, the following stated: « We have even warned that it has ceased to be compulsory to compensate the worker when he is caught in a situation of bankruptcy or illegality and must return to his country, and the PSD/CDS Government removed from the law the obligation of the company to pay the return trip to the worker. Do not keep on seeking. ” Even in 2016, also responding to a member of the right-wing bench, Mrs. Rita Rato said this: « I want to tell you, Mr. Deputy, to go to the Beja district, in particular to the Odemira municipality, to understand what the reality of those stoves is. Then tell us that there is no problem in the country and that we are raising anathemas about the situation of companies. Do not keep on seeking. ” Madam Member, what is happening in this country is unacceptable! These are the most fundamental and elementary rights of thousands of workers, rights which are being denied to them and in which the PSD and CDS have responsibilities. I would therefore like to ask you again, Madam Member : it is available to accompany the CFP in these solutions that we bring, in particular in this draft law, which confers nature of title...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u106	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u107	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was asking, is the honourable Member available to accompany the PCP in this bill, which confers the nature of executive title on the final decisions of the ACT? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u108	To ask for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, allow me to give some notes and ask one or two questions. I would like to begin by saying that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is associated with the concern expressed on the issues relating to exploitation at work. At this time of debate, however, it may be worth stressing that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers, firstly, that there are no workers-free companies, then there is no labour market without companies and that this is not a jungle, so that it is not a chaos, so that there is no indignity at work, there must be a visible hand of the State, which intervenes, makes legislation and controls. [[BE's protests.]] from our point of view, this is absolutely essential. Moreover, this has been the way that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government have done, with concrete actions, with legislation, with the strengthening of supervision. This has been done and it is possible to demonstrate. But I noticed on the right, in particular, and in the interventions of the PSD a common trait: what action is needed. In fact, Mrs Emília Cerqueira said so and she set out a set of measures to resolve the problem. Before that, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes had also said that they were needed measures and, more importantly, that the 2016 amendments did not serve anything. Now, the first question for the PSD is this: if the changes did not serve anything, what was the alternative they presented? What did the PSD do to solve the problems, to present alternatives, to present solutions?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u111	Let's see the story!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u112	The second question goes on this line of reasoning: the honourable Member presented a list, in which I confess that I was lost — the list was great and I lost myself in the solutions they wanted to impose — but I do not remember any proposal from the PSD on this matter. I don't remember! I can't find it! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u113	You're distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u114	At this point, Madam Member, perhaps it is worth remembering the past. The gentlemen. Members do not like to talk about the past, but it seems clear that the PSD has a role in what is, today, the Portuguese labour market and what is the functioning of companies, because it already had the opportunity to govern the country and, at that time, to do things, to demonstrate that it had an absolutely different role than what is being used today, more positive, more effective, more valuable. Now, I want to remember what happened in the past, I think it is worth doing. I begin with what happened in the very recent past, which was an intervention by Mr Rui Rio, President of the Social Democratic Party, here in this House to question the increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u116	The third question I am asking is this: Members of the PSD think that there is something more important to the dignity of work than the increase in the minimum wage? You think there's something more important than this effort, what needs to be done? It's good they can answer. I would also like to say that the PSD has in the past abandoned the idea that it was possible to introduce anticyclical measures to combat the loss of income, the loss of the market of companies — returning to companies — and completely abandoned this approach. Now, that was a disgrace to the country, because we lost income, lost jobs, had the highest unemployment rate of memory and the companies were out of the market, because you took people's income and ended the internal market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] So what happened was that you followed completely wrong policies and apparently want to go back to those same policies. [[PSD protests.]] If you have any doubts about what happened, I will give you three very important indicators. Indicators assess what happened between 2011 and 2021, i.e. peaks in crises, peaks in worst situations in terms of unemployment, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment. Note this: The peak of unemployment at the time the PSD ruled was in 2013, 1. the quarter of 17, 5 %. Do you know the peak of unemployment in this pandemic crisis, which is absolutely extraordinary and in which the PS governs? It was two, five times less than at your time. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u117	But there are more: No. 3. in the quarter of 2012, you had the young unemployment peak of 42, 5 %. Do you know what the peak of young unemployment was at this time, in a pandemic crisis, very difficult, global, where the PS governs? It was 1, 8 times lower. Third note: long-term unemployment. No. 1. in the 2013 quarter, you achieved 10, 3 % long-term unemployment. No. 1. the quarter of 2021, the worst moment of the pandemic crisis with the Government of the Socialist Party, was possible to be 4, 3 times lower than what you achieved. This is the result of the PSD policies and the result of the policies that the Socialist Party has implemented, seeking the dignity of work, job creation and quality employment. These are the issues I wanted to leave. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u118	In reply, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u119	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the questions that have been asked to me and I would begin to answer to Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS. Mr. Member, after six years of governance, I would like to remind you of what one of the PSD's ideologists, whose name was Sá Carneiro : a prime minister, after six months of being elected, should not be looking at the previous one. Six years later, you don't look at your responsibilities yet! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] Having said this, Mr President, I have heard you make here a great deal of statements, many of them unrealistic, as you know. This is because it did not take account of the troika, the support of the European Union, the policy of the European Central Bank, the exceptional, never-existent support for the pandemic. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] But by going through all this whitening and the whitening of the numbers, Mr President, I realize that I want to talk about everything less than what is under discussion, because, if I speak, it will nude the inertia of your government, the inertia of the municipal chamber, the inertia of the measures taken, finally the fact that you have been ostensibly ignoring all these years. [[PSD applause.]] And this, yes, in a socialist chamber, like Odemira's. You always had a big look, because you didn't want to look at the problem. [[Protests of PS Members.]] And, yes, honourable Member, I know you have been distracted and you were not interested in the matter, but the PSD presented proposals, which were approved in this House, to solve the problems in Odemira. Let's ignore them, we understand! Not outside the pandemic and they kept pretending that they did not have an « elephant in the middle of the room», because that is what you are specialists doing! [[PSD applause.]] Having said this, Mr. João Dias, I thank you for your questions and I use to tell you that, as you know, I have already been to Beja and Odemira, many times. In fact, I've already met with the authorities. I am an assiduous visitor to your region, which is very precious and of which I like. I know the whole reality of Beja and Odemira. I know the situation of agriculture, the natural park... I know all this situation and I see with great concern the lack of answers there is in the territory as well as...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u120	You know when you're going to the Algarve!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u121	No, no, sir! I really know the stoves, and you know that. In fact, several times he said to me: “Do you come to my land and say nothing? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] As you know, we are both in the Committee on Agriculture and, in our discussions, I have already repeatedly been drawn to this. But, I repeat, I know very well the territory of Alentejo, the deep Alentejo, that Alentejo that is more developed today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u122	He's almost speaking Alentejo!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u123	... which has production, which has population, which has a rising agricultural activity — that you don't like, but that we like! — and that ultimately is essential for our agri-food balance. I know and care about you, sir. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u124	Who shouldn't fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u125	Let me continue to say that the proposal of the CFP is a razia to the rule of law. We cannot substitute ourselves for the courts. The Act applies its proceedings, obtains its convictions. It is not up to us to withdraw the possibility of any Portuguese or foreign citizen residing in Portugal who has his or her rights in Portugal to see those rights exercised. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The argument you have used, Mr, is not valid, since still this morning the Minister of Labour would like to announce to us that there have been 443 convictions. So, by the way, the law does not prevent convictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u127	There was supervision, there was work on the ground, there were means for public authorities to act and the problem was not in the convictions of the ACT or in the absence of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u129	The problem is that there is no reply from a government that no longer governs. You are not outraged because, after negotiating and approving six budgets and serving as a mule to the government, you are as responsible for action or omission as the government itself. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] It is not worth today 'cleaning the water from the hood' and pretending that the industry has not been trying a solution for 10 years. [[Continuation of protests by PCP MP João Dias.]] Take your responsibilities! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u130	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a debate on combating forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, a humanist and Christian Democratic Party, such as the CDS, cannot remain indifferent. However, before going directly to the issue of combating forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation, I have to make an introductory note. In the CDS, we do not accept sectarian, discriminatory and reducing views presented here against the rural world and against agriculture. If there is likely to be forced labour in Portugal and if it is true that there may be some exploitation of labour, we refuse, however, to attack, inquisition mode, the rural world and agricultural activity. We do not tolerate the way some left disrespects those who work in the field and who produce it, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Do we want to fight forced labor? We do. But we do not accept that, at the blight of this fight, if attacked, disproposed and disproportionately, a very noble sector and that one wants to impose an urban-depressive vision. Agriculture deserves both respect and any other sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, never forget that « if the field does not plant, the city does not eat». We cannot fail to examine the issue of combating forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation without beginning. The beginning is to understand who these workers are or are more likely to be exploited than they are. The answer is apparently and unfortunately objective: it is immigrants. Therefore, it is important to understand why this phenomenon is happening. In 2017, amendments were made to the law of foreigners. As a result of these changes, the regularization of stay through the exercise of a subordinated professional activity has ceased to be exceptional and the legal stay in national territory has ceased to be required for the granting of the right of residence, making it sufficient for the legal entry into national territory, even if the reason for that entry has been exhausted or no longer verified. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] As I mentioned recently after the entry into force of Law No 59 / 2017 amendments in one week 4073 new applications for stay have entered, which constitutes an increase of more than 1300 % compared to the average weekly under the previous Act. This irresponsibility, for which the CDS was well alerted, resulted in practices with schedules of people who were not here, with IP ( Internet Protocol ) acquired by others for this purpose, with mere promises of employment contracts, with companies constituted at the time only to make promises of employment contracts. When the immigrants presented themselves to the SEF, it was found that these companies did not exist or have never had any activity and consequently did not make discounts on social security, although this value was discounted from the immigrants' orders. This is in addition to the fact that the promises not fulfilled in the employment contracts have created a legal void in the accountability of those who do. The concerns expressed by the SEF on the effect of the call for illegal immigrants in our country on the amendments to the law have been fully confirmed, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It would be expected that the head of the internal administration would take into account the notices of a security service with specific competence in this area, whose experience allowed him to opinion with knowledge of cause, but this did not happen, unfortunately. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Nevertheless, this increase in requests did not correspond to the necessary increase in the human and material resources of public services which exercise competence in this area. The intervention of authorities such as the Act, the SEF, has resulted in mediated operations of prevention and repression. However, these operations are insufficient to deduce the phenomena of labour exploitation, due to the lack of means and effectiveness. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the main problems is the lack of supervision. However, more important than changing the law often to worse, as happened in 2017, what matters is to equip both ACT and SEF with means and effects. In order to combat the exploitation of workers, particularly immigrants, it is necessary to receive them with the guarantee of their labour security and it is essential to monitor their conditions in the field. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] In order to combat exploitation of work and forced work they will always count on the CDS ; for demagogy and attack on the rural world they will always have ahead of the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u132	For an intervention, I give the floor to Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 23 December 2014 the Additional Protocol on Forced or Compulsory Work adopted by the International Labour Conference enters into force. It will certainly be another symbolic day for all those who struggle for true worthy conditions at work. Unfortunately, and even though we are in the 21st century, this scourge is still a global problem today. According to ILO, currently the number of victims around the world is estimated to be around 21 million and 30% are not nationals of the country where they work. We cannot allow, while we are here today, to discuss this issue now, there can be only one person who is living in degrading conditions, to be exploited, to be cohabited, to be cut off from his freedom, as a worker, as a person, as a citizen of the world, free and with the right to gain his livelihood under dignified conditions. In view of the broad consensus in modern society of recognition of freedom, work and its guarantees, protected legally and constitutionally, still today, and after all that has been done, it would be to expect that forced work had already been eradicated. This can only mean that our work is not yet completed. However, we were not stopped. The Socialist Party presented in the previous legislature the bill to combat modern forms of forced labour. With the positive votes of the PS and the rest of the left, this law introduced important amendments to the Labour Code, in particular as regards the financial responsibility of all temporary workers and users, but also introduced amendments to the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work and to the legal regime for the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary workers. We have been before and will be available today to work, in the specialty, with the Left Block, and with the other parties, in improving your bill. Already in this legislature, I had the honour to present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, which recommended that the Government initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Portuguese Republic's link to the 2014 Additional Protocol, which was approved unanimously, a protocol which, as I said earlier, will enter into force at the end of this year. But the Socialist Party also increased the national minimum wage to €665, and is expected to rise to the end of this legislature to €750 ; it regulated the abuses that existed in the transmission of establishment; it reformulated active employment policies. More: we fight the Portuguese qualification deficit with the new adult education and training strategy, with the Qualifica Programme, with a network of 300 centres, 315 000 inscriptions since 2017, contributing to greater employability; we meet the Portuguese Constitution by establishing a share of access to employment for disabled people, both in the public and in the private, thus allowing all Portuguese to have the right to work, regardless of their condition;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u135	... we updated the lowest pensions, covering about 2 million pensioners; we increased the minimum value of unemployment benefit, reaching 144 000 workers; we increased unemployment benefit for unemployed couples. The Socialist Party was with the workers in raising the protection of work, income, creating instruments to combat poverty, such as social unemployment benefit or guaranteed minimum income. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are policies that think about the future of the labour market, the future of workers, the future of Portuguese. These are policies that also contribute to the elimination of precariousness at work, which promote vocational training and qualification and enable greater dignity in working conditions. However, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is no longer here, it is more ambitious. We will continue to work within the agenda of decent work because, with decent jobs, with decent wages, there is economic growth and economic growth generates more resources that, in turn, create more decent jobs. The Socialist Party has made a difference in people's lives, the Socialist Party wants to continue to make a difference in people's lives. He wants to continue to protect those who cannot find a job or who unfortunately cannot work. Deserving work reduces inequality and reduces inequality increases dignity, increases justice, equity, increases social peace. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have great challenges on the future of work, on what we want for the future of work. We all know how to overcome our differences and, together, contribute, as ILO says, so that decent work is not only an objective but also an impetus to the sustainable development of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u136	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only a final note by the Socialist Party, regarding what was discussed here, to the schedule that the Left Block made and to the projects that the various parties — the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the ENP — brought here to appreciate. I would like to begin this final note by valuing these initiatives, which are relevant in the context of forced labour, in the context of combating precariousness, in the context of combating exploitation of work, especially in the agricultural context, but not only, and which deserve the attention and follow-up of the Socialist Party, who want to continue to work, as a specialist, seeking the possible and necessary consensus on these matters. Secondly, I would like to note that, by the interventions made so far — essentially, I believe that the speeches of the different parties have already been expressed here — we do not, in fact, count on the parties to the right for this work, for this fight. Today, in this debate, they resigned from any work on the speciality of the initiatives presented here, they preferred a somewhat sectarian discourse from the rural world against the urban world, of defense of the agricultural world against the defense of urban depressives, as Mr Pedro Morais Soares said here — I do not understand well. We are talking about working matters, we are talking about working exploitation, and I believe that this is where the initiatives must be discussed and not, Mr President, with all due respect, as if we were discussing the ban on tourists. Thirdly, I would like to leave here the idea that human rights and the rights of migrant workers are an essential condition of this debate. We cannot discuss what has been the exploitation of many workers in the agricultural context, but not only, without discussing the exposure of the weaknesses, that the pandemic brought, and the need to combat the discourse of fear and exclusion concerning migrant workers, which, even today, has been reiterated and strengthened by Mr André Ventura, who talks with the parties to the right to find in this House the majority that the Portuguese people do not give and that, I believe, will not. Therefore, we cannot protect labour relations without protecting migrant workers and immigrants as human beings, as workers who have social rights before they are workers and as workers and persons to whom the Portuguese State recognises these rights, from the outset the right to legalization, the right to the social state, the right to be people. Fourthly, we need to continue — and we will continue — to intervene on the labour market. The Members of the Socialist Party who spoke before me mentioned here several of the measures that have been put forward, over the past few years, about rights, about strengthening terms of employment, about limiting the use of temporary work. And other measures could have been presented, such as the excessive turnover rate on the part of the companies that use it, limiting the use of end-term contracts, among other measures, the subsidiary responsibility of temporary workers, the legislation which has been promulgated significantly three weeks ago in the context of the transmission of the establishment, where many of these companies also operate. The Socialist Party and the parties on its left have come to build consensus on these and other matters in this House, and it is in this context that we want to continue to work, even because temporary work needs, which exist, of course, especially in the agricultural world, cannot mean precarious conditions for those working in this area, responding to those that are the needs of companies. Finally, I wanted to say that I find it very relevant to point out that the amendments we made here in 2016, in the previous Parliament, establishing the subsidiary responsibility of the contracting chains, has already led to 443 convictions. Today, we heard the PSD say here that this law was an inefficient law. Well, with the support of the PSD there were no 443, there were zero convictions because they did not follow this intervention and this legislative amendment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] Therefore, it is in this context that we want to continue to work. These are the strengths of the Socialist Party's vision that I would like to leave in this final reference, as I would like to say that we will continue to work on these matters with the parties who presented them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u138	Mrs Lina Lopes now has the floor, also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on these draft laws and draft resolutions of the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens, and having listened carefully to all speakers in their interventions on forced labour, labour and decent work, would like to remind everyone that Portugal, in the Government of the Democratic Social Party and the CDS, ratified the Protocol of the International Labour Organization on forced or compulsory work in June 2014 together with 50 ILO Member States, and this protocol will enter into force on 31 December 2021, i.e. at the end of this year. This Protocol reinforces the international legal framework, creating new obligations to prevent forced labour, protect victims and allow access to compensation for material and physical damage. As we all know, and today it has been pointed out by everyone, this goes to the words of Guy Ryder, Director-General of the International Labour Organization, who stated that "the prohibition of forced or compulsory work is one of the fundamental rights and forced or compulsory work constitutes a violation of human rights and an attack on the dignity of millions of women and men, girls and boys, contributes to the perpetuation of poverty and is an obstacle to the realization of the principle of decent work for all". They have all noted and pointed out that the context of forced or compulsory work has changed and it is crucial that we remain alert to trafficking in persons for these unworthy and infamous purposes, including sexual exploitation. And it must be not only a national but also an international concern, which requires urgent measures for its effective elimination. Therefore, there is no doubt that we must take concrete and immediate measures in the field of prevention, protection and rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This subject has already been brought several times to this House, even resulting in an amendment to the Labour Code in 2016. What is at stake here is not labour law. What is at stake, and today it has been well expressed, is a problem of supervision, of action focused on the problem, by the responsible authorities. Changing the Labour Code will not resolve the failures of the Ministry of Labour; it will not resolve the oversight failures of the Labour Conditions Authority, probably without adequate means to make this supervision; it will not resolve the failures of the Ministry of Internal Administration, which spends time diverting attention from its errors with bombastic appearances or announcements of dismantling essential services instead of improving and optimizing; it will not address the failures of the Ministry of Justice itself. If there is trafficking in human beings, as stated today by the Left Block, a serious complaint, it is asked: what has been done by the authorities, in particular by the Ministry of Justice? Obviously, for the Left Block, in its collective aversion to the initiative of society, the easiest thing is to blame the employers' confederations. The Block even uses an expression that we consider to be very unhappy, which I quote: "the anger" of the employers' confederations. The Left Block forgets that in 2017, in its anger at the regulation of immigration, it was the Left Block that eased the obligation of a contract of work, transforming this legal guarantor into a mere manifestation of interests, which led to the entry of many immigrants without having a fixed workplace. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, what is at stake is not the amendment of the Labour Code, but rather the existence of coordination and public policies integrated between the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the Ministry of Internal Administration and the Ministry of Justice. This is what is missing in order to enforce the existing law. Finally, saying that the Social Democratic Party is a humanist and personalist party, for whom the alpha and the omega of politics reside in the human person, in full respect for the human person. This is our matrix. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are laws! It is up to the government to create conditions for them to be met. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u140	To express the closing intervention, Mr. Jorge Costa, of the Block of Left, who can use the time he still has, as well as the 2 minutes that belong to his party for having been the author of the schedule.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u141	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the work we are doing today is the normal work of a Parliament: to observe compliance with the law, to see whether the initiatives taken in the past have the desired result, whether the objectives for which we are to legislate are being achieved and, if they are not, to adapt the legislation. Nothing more normal in the functioning of a Parliament. We did not expect a right-wing contribution in this debate. The right was already against, in 2016, that entrepreneurs and farm owners were held accountable and had a speech of the kind of one who today had here: the problem is not the farmer, the problem is the foreman. Now, the right has not changed and is still not part of the solution, but, yes, the problem. When we look at how the law is being applied, we see that there is indeed a problem. It is not having any consequence, as desired, it is not fulfilling the objective: to end forced labor in the camps of Portugal! Therefore, we cannot maintain a hypocrisy, which is to realize that we have a law against forced labour, when, in fact, it does not solve the problem of forced labor. The right has tried two arguments here in the debate. One argument is that this is an immigration problem. It was the argument that began to be used by the CDS ; the arrival, of course, did not miss the call, is its ground ; and the PSD, in the last intervention that brought us here, did the same. This is a complete hypocrisy, because the business model of intensive agriculture in our country is largely based on over-exploration of immigrant labour. Therefore, the need for this labour force, the presence of this labour force and the over-exploitation of this labour force already existed at any time of any of the legislative changes mentioned here concerning immigration policy. All that has been done with regard to immigration law has helped to improve the conditions of workers, not to make them worse, and has helped to reduce the number of illegal workers on these farms. They may have stopped being clandestine, but this did not solve the problem of over-exploration of this work, did not solve the problem of being cohabited and kept in homes that pay at the price of gold, did not suffice to stop receiving 3 € / hour. This type of illegality committed cannot be attributed to the problem of immigration. And it is a very heavy political sign that the whole right has joined together to bring the subject of immigration to a debate that is about human rights, about labour rights and that has nothing to do with the immigration status of these people. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The other argument that was brought here by the PSD is that this is a problem of supervision — « we already have law, lack of inspectors on the ground, it is a problem of supervision ». The PSD Members who spoke here today, it is not a matter of supervision! Monitoring exists! There's been a lot of surveillance! Only in the last 15 days, in Odemira, 300 cars have been lifted. [[Ah! Now?Oh, my God!]] [[Ah! Now?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u142	And it's not from now on! The problem is the consequence of this supervision, the problem is that this supervision is inconsequential, because it is not the intermediary. You get the foremen, but you don't get the farmers, and that's what you have to do. It is this adaptation that is important to make the law and that adaptation that the right wants to prevent, because it is linked to the interests of the farmers. If you have any doubts about this, see what happened yesterday in the Committee on Agriculture: the PSD has made a request to bring the Assembly of the Republic — see! — the journalists of the RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ) who reported on the conditions under which intensive agriculture is practised in Portugal. I shall read the request : « The PSD considers that the television documentary issued by the RTP, in the Front Line programme on intensive agriculture on 15 April, does not portray the agricultural reality of the different regions of our country with exemption because it reflects a depreciative view. PSD didn't like the program. Maybe the landowners didn't like it either. It goes from there, the PSD makes a request, requesting the hearing of those responsible for the RTP program, which produced and issued the documentary concerned. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all realize the seriousness of what is at stake and the notion of freedom of the press here. Entrepreneurs of intensive agriculture did not have the job of asking for a hearing or submitting their complaint, because the PSD was in charge of bullying RTP journalists, and there is the talk about the governmentalization and independence of RTP. In conclusion, the Government voted for its absence in the debate. It is a pity that it has not come, because this finding of the shortcomings of the current law involves the action of the government and it was an important commitment that could have been taken today. The Socialist Party has promised to analyse carefully, but has wisely avoided speaking in this debate about the concrete contents of the Left Block proposal, about each measure that is being advanced, and it is unfortunate that it has not taken advantage of, among so many interventions, to say what it agrees with and that it disagrees with the Left Block project. Mrs. Members, ladies and gentlemen, those responsible must be called to account. We cannot accept a business model such as that which is today exposed to the eyes of the entire country and which involves over-exploration and forced work under conditions in which the law does not have a strong enough framework for the diligent performance of supervision and of the Labour Conditions Authority. That is the change that needs to be made and it is with great expectation that we will go to specialized work. We have a greater clarification of the Socialist Party's position at that time, because we are still very much to clarify today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u143	At the end of the debate, we are now turning to the second item on our agenda, which contains a supplementary script of votes. The proposal for a Law No 96 / XIV / 2 shall be voted on in the speciality and in the overall final vote. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime of the organizers of the end of the UEFA Champions League 2020 / 2021 competition. First of all, we shall proceed to the speciality vote. I wonder if we can vote on all the articles together. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we shall vote on Article 1. Article 2 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ). Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] Let us now vote on a request by the PS for a waiver of final drafting and the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies in respect of this bill. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, from our agenda for tomorrow's session, first of all, is the assessment of draft resolution No 1205 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly of the Republic the announced restructuring of the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ). Secondly, there will be a possible vote at the end of the debate. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will now give the information of Mr. Members who were present by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform the House that Mr. José Cesario of the PSD, elected by the electoral circle Outside of Europe, was present via video conference. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-25.u145	Thank you, Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Tomorrow, we'll meet again. Good afternoon to all. [[It was 17 hours and 24 minutes.]]
