ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin our agenda, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 1516 / XIV / 3. ( CH), 1517 / XIV / 3. a ( CH), 1518 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH) and 1519 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u3	Thank you very much. Let us then begin our agenda today, which consists in the assessment of Decree-Law No. 30 / 2021 of 7 May, which proceeds from the regulation of Law No. 54 / 2015 of 22 June with regard to mineral deposits[ Parliamentary Assessments No. 48 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 49 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP and PEV ) and 50 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). Mr Nelson Peralta of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has scheduled for today a debate to discuss and amend the legislation of mines in Portugal. The decree that the government has recently published fails in the environment, fails to populations and also fails in the country. In fact, we consider this agenda and this parliamentary assessment very urgent, because the Government is also in a hurry, because it has still signed 14 mining contracts on the same day and 14 at the end of the mandate. I want to start with the context in which this decree-law arose. in a recent interview a few days ago, the Minister of the Environment said that next year, 2022, would be for the government the year of nature. Well, of course it's hard. In fact, the last six years have not been years of nature for this government. On the contrary, if we look at it, we see that Portugal was Europe's paper factory, with all the risks of fires and environmental risks that it represents. Portugal had and has in the southwest of Alentejo a sea of greenhouses in full protected area and Portugal was also in this period the garbage box of Europe. over the past few years, economic interests have always surpassed the environment and the interests of populations when the Ministry of the Environment decided. It is in this context that this decree-law is inserted. It is a law decree that was written « at the will of the freguês», where many things can be forbidden, but soon thereafter they are not, because there is always an exception to measure. A green law for mines was promised, but what went out in the rifa was a green way for mines, and when it comes to lithium is a green way without even having speed limit. The law lists three axes and none is fulfilled. In the first axis of the law it is said that this law has the most demanding standards of environmental sustainability. Now, the decree says that there is no mining in protected areas whenever possible. The decree-law has this written right there. It is written in the law « whenever possible», i.e. there is no mining in protected areas, except when there is. One of the flags that this government announced for this law was that the replacement of the environment and requalification were made at the same time as the mining process was under way. Well, let's read the law and what's written? Also the magic word « preferentially». Therefore, environmental recovery is done at the same time, provided it is not done again. Mines also have an extraordinary thing in this law: it has more power to mine than the planning plans, are national, for example, of buildings or protected areas, or are the PDM(municipal directors' plans). It is not necessary, at least, to change the planning plans, it is enough to have a role to promise that the planning plans will be changed so that a mine can be placed where it was previously banned. This is how this law organizes and plans the territory in Portugal. The second axis of the law is on the provision of information and public participation. I am only going to give an example, to see what we are talking about: monitoring committees exist whenever it is justified, i.e., they exist as long as they do not exist again. This is a really great law. The third axis is on the fair distribution of the economic benefits of the holding, particularly for the population. We already know that it is a private company, choosing this government, not a public company, that remains with mining. And what's left for the population? Transfer of wealth, because there are economic activities in that territory that will become banned or that will no longer have economic capacity to develop. So how does this government protect the people? It says that the minimum distance from a mine to a population aggregate is 1 km, except when it is not 1 km, again. It's a fantastic law that always has the right exceptions! This law takes seriously the metaphor of the mine in the backyard, because it actually allows mines in the backyards next to the houses, and this devalues the houses of the population, these houses that were often built with their savings and that are thus devalued.Therefore, in these three axes of the law have failed the government, Matos Fernandes and João Galamba. They failed one, two and three times, because they only had three times to fail. This law fails the country, it fails the populations and it fails the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u6	This law reminds us of a tale we all know: it is forbidden, but it can be done! It is an environmental legislation that works under open bar regime where everything is allowed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u7	Bar open? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u8	Mr. Minister, you will have your opportunity to answer. I want to talk now about the proposals that the Left Block here brings, as much as they irritate, the government. The Left Block proposes the prohibition of new mines in protected areas or in areas classified under the United Nations conventions; we want to create a buffer zone around these protected or classified areas; we want environmental impact assessment to take place before concession contracts so that there is no economic influence and no economic power to dictate the results of any environmental impact assessment; we want public participation measures to be increased; and, of course, we want the replacement of good environmental status to be at the same time as mining activity and not only at the end; we want territorial planning plans to do so, that is, to be territorial planning plans; and we also want the authorities to be able to have binding opinions on the exploitation of these minerals. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is important to realize where this mining activity is and this law is inserted. We are not talking about the country of wonders, we are talking about a concrete reality, which is Portugal. Portugal has the worst protected areas of the European Union, Portugal is the fourth most endangered species in the European Union. Therefore, measures were needed to preserve the environment, but what came out were measures that worsened the environment and protected areas. Another issue where this law fails is planning, since the decree itself says that within two years there must be a national strategy of geological resources. This is a strategy that will say what are the priorities, what are the minerals, which are so important that it has to be the State launching public tenders for its exploitation, it cannot depend only on private individuals. It will have to stipulate what is import, export, value added, which will stipulate how industry is organized around mining projects, how is the environment organized with protection in relation to this strategy. Well, within two years we have a mining strategy that will dictate all public policies for mining, but today the contracts are being signed, it is today that the government chooses large areas of the south, the north and the center of the country to exploit many minerals, particularly lithium, and therefore plans from here to two years and runs now. This is the policy that the Government of the Socialist Party has to present to the environment and to the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u10	This is a strategy that does not provide for any public enterprise, only royalties for private individuals and, in addition, the economic interest overlaps with the interest and definition of the strategy and environmental protection in the country. I therefore conclude by stressing the importance of the approval of the proposals which the Left Block brings here, and which are essential. I must say that the response to climate change is not destroying protected areas, it is not threatening biodiversity, it is not destroying carbon dioxide, quite the contrary. Public policies cannot be done by closing the door to public participation and returning policies against populations. That's not how you do it. The country's wealth cannot be delivered to private companies and, at least, without any national strategy for mining resources. We cannot have a mine law which kneels before private interests, especially when it comes to the question of lithium. Finally, look carefully at this law: do we really want to have a law that says everything is forbidden except when it is done? What is nature's protection to do except when it's not to do? That people have participation rights except when they do not? This is a law that opens the door to will and abuse, and national laws cannot have this open door, must be clear, equal to all, transparent and must put the protection of populations and the environment to the head. That is not what this law does, and that is why the Left Block here brings these proposals, which we consider to be majority in society and which we want to see approved in this Parliament to protect the environment, the population and the Portuguese economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u11	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Nelson Peralta, the Member went up to the rostrum to make the presentation of the Left Block of Parliamentary Assessment — that was the idea — but he did not, in fact, end up doing a purely elective campaign action and, say it in favour of the truth, quite mediocre. I would like to begin by saying the following: the enthusiasm which I have seen in Mr Peralta's speech in relation to this Parliamentary assessment contrasts, from the point of view of the PS Parliamentary Group, in a clear way, with — allow me to say this — the stupendous diploma of amendment presented by the Left Block in this House of the Republic. And I say 'brought diploma', not because we believe that the Left Block lacks creativity, quite the contrary, everyone here in this House knows that it is not, but because simply when the Left Block decided to analyze the Government's diploma, it has started with a blackout in the list of crimes that eventually this diploma would have, either with regard to public participation or with regard to the environment. [[Congratulations from the PS and the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.]] That is why the Left Block presented this bold diploma of amendment, because, in the rest, three things remained, Mr. After all that he did, after the campaign he made of that rostrum, three things remained: first — it is good to underline — the Left Block introduced into the diploma a moratorium on marine mining in a diploma that does not deal with marine mining and, therefore, introduced something that is not in the diploma, which I find strange — in fact, it would even say intriguing. The second thing is to prevent competitions from being launched by the State in protected areas, but to allow them to be shocked that private entities could, eventually, apply for these same mining competitions. The third note, which also seems important to me, is that the diploma, that this government legislation, which is perhaps the one that deepens, in a dense and meaningful way, public participation in these matters, is all wrong and that is nothing of this. In short, this is what you are talking about. Members of the Left Block propose. I conclude by asking Mr Nelson Peralta a question. In front of a diploma that: first, promotes public participation in all stages of the allocation of rights; second, stimulates and ensures, significantly, the most involved follow-up; third, ensures the process of consultation with the municipalities concerned—that is what is in our diploma and that was not in the previous diplomas; fourth, creates more restrictive rules for the subjecting of environmental impact assessment; fifth, establishes areas relevant to the environment and conservation of nature; sixth, determines, in the case of competitive procedure, the prohibition of inclusion for the allocation of prospecting rights and research of the State initiative; seventh, guarantees the granting of exploitation with more responsibility of dealers; eighth, guarantees royalties for the authorities of at least 3 %; ninth, includes environmental and landscape recovery in the prospecting and research phase—are some of the issues that did not appear in the previous diploma and which appear in this diploma, in a very significant way. In the face of all this, does the Left Block even think that the Government, the Socialist Party does not care about the issues of participation of the people and also environmental issues? Don't you think Mr. Nelson Peralta was wrong about the addressee? Do you not think that the recipient of his speech and the amendment to the diploma is not the Socialist Party? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u13	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Pereira, your speech is at the level of what you said two years ago, calling for obstacles to the benches of the Left Block and the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u15	And more!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u16	... by the contributions they have made to develop the country in as many areas as those of wages and the distribution of income. That's your position! [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] But I want to respond clearly to the issue of marine mining. This law had already raised questions of marine mining, but they were then withdrawn. Why? Because the Minister of the Sea said he was defending a moratorium of 10 to 20 years on mining at sea. Well, it is this position of the Ministry of the Sea that the Left Block places here in the law and that the Socialist Party is so critical. But now the Socialist Party has also opened a small door to mining at sea. I also want to answer the issues of participation, because what the Socialist Party Member here tells us is that public participation in the country is very welcome as long as he agrees with this law, as long as he agrees with the Socialist Party's positions, as long as he agrees with the concrete abuse of this law on the lives of the people. I think that's what you're seeing. I did not tell you whether you want or not mining in protected areas — Mr Silence, who does not tell us whether you want monitoring committees, public participation, whenever there are mining projects. On the contrary, he defends what the Minister for the Environment has put in the law. Mr Deputy, in fact, your intervention was an election campaign, in fact... [[PS protests.]] ...but a very bad election campaign, because it does not have to do with what the Left Block here brings as proposals, it does not even have to do with the concrete of the law, it only has to do with the propaganda that the government has made around this law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u18	Listen to the people, who do not want this abuse of their lives and look at this law, which, at the same time that says it forbids everything, opens the door and the possibility to everything. This means that it is a law that is permeable to economic interests and that these are more important to the Socialist Party and to this government, with this law, than the interests of the population, the interests of the country and the protection of the environment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u19	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Law No. 54 / 2015, the law of mines created by the PSD/CDS government and which the PS government has regulated in the decree-law that is currently under parliamentary review, was a law profoundly detrimental to national interest, sovereign economic development and populations. This mine law deepens the path that has as strategic scope the delivery to the large multinational capital of the mining sector, of vast and diverse reserves of important raw materials, some of them clearly strategic, such as basic metals. Through all the law, proposed by the then PSD Government / CDS, but also by the regulation and political practice of the PS Government, the obsession with the surrender of revelation and exploitation to the private and foreign capital of national geological resources, becoming the State in a mere role as a promoter and business facilitator. A policy that aims at a marked growth in this sector, i.e., rapid redeployment to the service of third parties, strategic national wealth, assumed as having a scarce, irreplaceable and non-replaceable nature. It is under this law and these regulations that were issued 15 days ago, nine prospecting contracts and five mining contracts. When faced with the challenge of populations, the Government argues that these contracts are the result of rights already granted, this well reveals the rot of this model. It's just that the problem is right there! It is in the fact that, when the State allocates prospecting rights to a multinational, it automatically assigns future operating rights to it as long as it meets certain criteria. But the decision is no longer on the side of the state! From that point on, the main criterion becomes the economic interest of the company and not any criterion of national interest. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP defends the right of the country to know its resources. It defends the right, from the knowledge of these resources, to decide, on the basis of economic, environmental criteria, of the quality of life of the populations, whether or not in each specific case should exploit these resources. But to enable this knowledge and evaluation based on criteria of public interest, it is necessary for the State, rather than depending on multinationals, to have its own means for this purpose. That is, essentially, what we are going to propose in the amendments that we will present to this decree. We propose that all references to the allocation of rights at the prospecting and research stage be withdrawn, making it clear that the activities of geological resource disclosure are exercised exclusively by the State through its competent services and bodies. This will require the revitalization of the mining public sector, including the Mining Development Company ( EDM ), which is a public entity that has described in its mission « to design and execute, by itself or by joint ventures, exploration projects, research, evaluation and exploitation of geological resources ». This is described on the website of the Treasury and Finance Directorate-General. We propose that the revealing activities should be preceded by studies for the identification of large environmental conditioners, studies that should be systematized in letters of large conditioners, prepared for each region. We propose that the granting of operating rights be dependent on the previous submission of environmental impact assessment (AIA) and that it be favourable, including, inter alia, the analysis of ecological and biodiversity resources, surface and groundwater water resources, public health and the quality of life of populations, landscape and cultural values, economic and territorial development, psychosocial analysis and the presence of environmental liabilities. We propose that, whenever exploration or allocation of operating rights should be carried out in integrated territories in protected areas, a favourable opinion should be required of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et des Forestas). We want this to be no longer a proforma for public participation and a report to be drawn up in which it is clearly based and presented the integration or not of the various contributions taken into the process. We propose to eliminate the possibility of contractual transmission of prospecting and exploitation rights. Yes, national resources must no longer be associated with speculation in the sale on the market of concessions, from one multinational to the other, to the taste of momentary interests and maximum profit. We also want guarantees to protect workers' rights in the event of cessation of exploitation. With these proposals, the CFP reaffirms its fundamental position, expressed in 2015, with the vote against the mine law : to know resources without reliance on third parties ; to assess possible exploitation on the basis of the public interest, involving economic, environmental and population components ; to ensure the exploitation of resources in Portugal. This is the way to reconcile the right to quality of life and environmental protection with the need of the country to develop, in a sustainable and sovereign manner, its extractive industry, putting it, not at the service of the neocolonial interests of the multinationals of mining, but at the service of the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u21	To request clarification, Mr João Miguel Nicolau of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Duarte Alves, we find it difficult to understand the reasons for the request for parliamentary review presented by the CFP. And if the reading of the request did not clarify, after the presentation made here by the honourable Member, the doubt remains. On the one hand, the CFP says that it is against the private initiative and that it must be the State that is exploring — so far nothing new. Therefore, there is doubt whether the CFP will ask for the parliamentary review of all the rules on market regulation and state concessions and whether they are basically against market transparency, even if they do not agree with them, as are against the existence of clear rules, in which everyone knows what their rights and what their obligations are. Mr Duarte Alves, in his speech, has often spoken in large multinational companies, but the truth is that it is wrong. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] It is wrong because most of the companies that have won the competitions awarded are 100 % Portuguese companies — in the case of Argemela, in the case of Bugalhos, in the case of rubber, in the case of caulinos. They are all companies with 100 % Portuguese capital. It is Portuguese capital, it is our companies and it is our Portuguese production. So, the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that the regulation of the law on mineral deposits is a very important step in transparency, participation, sharing of responsibilities and safeguarding the environment. It says the CFP that the decree-law does not ensure public participation or consultation with the local authority. Now, the question I can ask is whether the CFP actually read the decree before asking for parliamentary approval, because the law decree is very clear on this matter, dedicating up to a detailed article on public participation. And, just to recall, public participation is ensured in all established processes: in the allocation of prospecting rights, in the operating concessions and in the state's own-initiative contests, in addition to the decree-law obliges public clarification sessions to be held in the municipalities concerned. And we should also remember the mandatory public participation, in the process of environmental impact assessment, for conception of exploitation, and this is another very important moment of participation of the populations, of all stakeholders, in the public discussion of the project. It is therefore easy to see that this was one of the principles that guided the construction of this regulation. On the other hand, it also says the CFP that does not guarantee the safeguarding of important environmental and heritage values. But, precisely, the environmental safeguard was one of the fundamental requirements for the construction of this regulation and to say that mining has no environmental impact would be dishonest on my part. In fact, it is worth noting that there is no human activity that has no environmental impact, and what we really need to have as a guarantee is that the possible impacts of the activity are reduced as much as possible and remedied those that cannot be avoided, always ensuring, but always, that the main environmental and social values are guarded and that the quality of life of all populations is in fact ensured, both in this and in future generations. And the truth is that this decree imposes clear environmental rules and creates mechanisms for monitoring, transparency and safeguarding the environment and local communities. I'm joining you, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Alves, this is indeed a very serious matter, with many pros and cons, which must be thought and guarded, as was indeed done in the decree-law in appreciation. And this House, or some parliamentary forces that make up it, cannot implement a complex, dense and serious issue like this, in respect of all the citizens we represent here. What I would ask you to tell us is whether or not the CFP is in favour of exploiting existing mineral resources, and if not, say in particular what you want with this parliamentary assessment, because generalities and instrumentalization of the struggle of some communities — communities that we need to understand, hear and help eliminate impacts — do not lead us to solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u23	To reply, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Miguel Nicolau, I thank you for your question. If, indeed, our position on this matter has not been clarified in my speech, I would like to clarify it. We believe that the country should know its resources and, from the knowledge of these resources, it must decide on the basis of economic criteria, which are also important, and environmental criteria, involving the populations to know whether or not to exploit those resources that should previously be known. The problem with this model of mine law and government regulation is that, in order to know our resources, we are dependent on multinationals. In other words, we have to give prospecting contracts, which already guarantee exploitation themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u25	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u26	It's true! So how can the government now say that these concessions that are being given already result from previous rights? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PS MP João Miguel Nicolau.]] It is precisely because prospecting gives exploitation rights. That's the bottom line!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u27	There is no right to prospect!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u28	I repeat, there's the bottom line. It is that the State is dependent on multinationals to know their resources and, from there, cannot do anything anymore, because the prospect is being delivered, which gives them rights of exploitation in the future. That's the problem. Therefore, what we are advocating is that the State has the alien right to know its resources, to make an assessment with the knowledge of the populations, taking into account the environmental components and also economics. But for that, you need to have exclusiveness in prospecting and a public company that does so and that can fulfill that role. With regard to the issues of public participation you have put, the best example of the lack of public participation and the lack of involvement of populations are these 14 concessions that have now been made and for which the populations are completely opposed. Therefore, the populations have not been heard, which shows that this decree-law has not served for the involvement of the populations and to ensure the adequacy between the need to know our resources and evaluate their possible exploitation and the environmental and quality of life concerns of the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u29	Mr Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Left Block for the opportunity to schedule this debate. When the lithium pandemic began to attack the country, with the proliferation of requests to grant for exploration and research and with three applications for exploitation, two in Barroso and one in the Argemela greenhouse, the government was the first infected. Concerned about the attack on this virus, which seems to disturb the reasoning of decision makers with the mirage of innovative futures, in which money runs away, removing their ability to see the seriousness of the environmental and social consequences that these decisions entailed, The Greens immediately confronted the Minister of the Environment in the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, we were the first party to do so. This confrontation with the guardianship that, on the one hand, licenses mining activity and, on the other hand, also has the responsibility to protect environmental values, it has, and has, more justification, because it had already been signed a lithium exploration contract in the Roman mine, in Montalegre, without being subject to any prior process of environmental impact assessment, and because at the time there were two more contracts in the calha: the Covas do Barroso and Argemela. These requests for exploitation of lithium in open-air mines concern all areas of great environmental sensitivity. Two of these areas are in Terras de Barroso, mountain farming territory, classified by FAO (United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization ) as an agricultural heritage of humanity. These two mines are located mine walls with our only national park, Gerês, and Alvão-Marão Natural Park. They are located in the territory of the wolf, a protected species, and in an area of the Natura 2000 Network. The third mine is located in Argemela, which integrates the geopark of the Estrela greenhouse, located just a few metres from the Zêzere River, which provides the Lisbon region. All these facts were not sufficient reasons for the Minister, on behalf of the Government, to act as the guardian of the environment, to safeguard these unique and fundamental values for the future of life. The Minister, of many guardianships, has privileged in his decisions the protection of private economic interests, often international, which devour the geological resources of our planet. The Minister was so far away from this role that he, showing himself totally insensitive to the appeals of the populations, the autarchs, the environmental associations and, of course, the Greens, has already signed the three lithium exploration contracts and signed, even with the greatest discretion, at the end of October, beyond Argemela, a set of other contracts, including for the exploration and research of lithium, also in sensitive areas. The Minister is also preparing to move forward with a contest to eight more sites for exploration and research of lithium, in the Central and North regions of the country, covering 32 municipalities and the entire surrounding of the Estrela greenhouse. However, it advanced the regulation of the basic law of mining, Decree-Law No. 30 / 2021. It was also this diploma that the ENP Members, together with the Members of the CFP, have advocated the plenary and that is currently under discussion, for which we have tabled a set of amendments. These proposals aim to respond to greater protection and protection of the environment in mining activity, establishing that there can be no mining activity in protected and classified areas, both nationally and regionally and locally. In fact, this was a guarantee given by Minister AOS Verdes, even in previous legislation, but the 'litiana' pandemic may also have amnesiac effects. [[Protests by the Under-Secretary of State and Energy.]] They also establish the prohibition of mining in a protection zone around these areas and in areas that, although not classified, are of high environmental sensitivity and perform determining ecological functions in the fight against climate change, in the preservation of biodiversity, soil and sustainable agricultural practices. They establish that the environmental impact assessment takes place before the conclusion of the operating contract, which should be obvious, since it is a decisive instrument to support the decision, and that the conditions for participation of the populations in the public consultation are extended and improved, requiring public sessions in all the affected frequencies. The opinions of the municipalities, as well as of other entities, if unfavorable, should be binding at all stages of the process and not only in the exploration and research phase, establishing the replacement of the supremacy of the law of order on this diploma. Finally, they establish the defence of the public interest, clarifying the rights of applicants in the various contractual phases—of prospecting, research and exploitation—, eliminating the tie that the regulatory diploma under discussion introduced into the regulation of Law No 54 / 2015. What remains to be interesting in this matter is that this tie, which did not exist in the law of bases, now emerges in this diploma. It was the argument that the Government always evoked to justify the signing of the contract of the Roman mine, in the parish of Morgade, in Montalegre, and also of Argemel. They then said these PS rulers were tied to previous PSD decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u31	Respect for contracts! Respect for the rule of law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u32	Not that the PSD left a good basic law, but these ties did not exist, was the PS that created them. to raise them only strengthened the interests of the private, in particular that of compensation, in case the State does not wish to move forward with the exploration and research. This is a scandalous situation, to which the Greens, with their proposals, aim to put a final point. The Greens hope that these and other proposals that we have tabled — I do not have time to quote all — are welcomed and contribute to ensuring that the knowledge and use of geological resources are at the service of the country's harmonious development and the improvement of the lives of its people, without incompatibility and destroying other fundamental riches to life. I shall end with the words of the UN Secretary-General ( United Nations ), at the opening of the Glasgow summit : « It is enough to treat nature as a toilet. Just burn, drill and undermine our path. Do not keep on seeking. ” We cannot undermine our future. The future is green. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u33	For an intervention, you now have the floor by the PSD, Mr Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u34	Mr President, Minister for Environment and Climate Action, Under-Secretary of State and Energy, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: I begin by welcoming the Left Block for the relevance and relevance of the theme of today's legislative agenda, the assessment of the decree-law regulating the so-called « mine law ». It is relevant, because the issue leads to a crucial challenge for our collective future: the fight against climate change and crisis. We are all aware of the urgency of this fight, of the need to accelerate the energy transition and thus to accelerate decarbonisation. But this energy transition cannot be made in any way at any price. For the PSD, it is essential that it be fair and sustainable, safeguarding the rights of local populations and communities and at the same time protecting the environment and biodiversity. To mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, we cannot destroy protected areas. Mining cannot be equal to destruction. To produce renewable energies, we cannot sacrifice the health and quality of life of populations living near mineral deposits. It is not worth everything in the fight against climate change. It is essential to find balance solutions. It is important to ensure that the exploitation of geological resources respects the protection of the environment, safeguard the archaeological heritage and safeguard the rights and interests of the people, combining the creation of wealth and employment with a true logic of sustainability. Decree-Law No. 30 / 2021 regulates the law establishing the bases of the regime of revelation and the use of geological resources. What should have been done in six months took six years. However, exploration and exploitation intentions have emerged, without proper safeguarding of the environmental aspects and interests of local populations. The government was acting more as a promoter of mining projects, acknowledging the merits of the ecological transition and the wonders of lithium, without assuming, in a clear and transparent manner, the defense of environmental, social and even economic rights of the territories concerned. It is therefore impossible for the Minister to miss out on the loss of confidence that mining raises with the local authorities and communities. Those who transformed the word 'lithium' into a phrase were this government, Minister, its government, by opacity in licensing processes, by webs of interests and negotiations that were growing around them, by deafness to the appeals and complaints of the people, in defense of their territories and their lives. [[PSD applause.]] Let us look at what is happening in Barroso, Montalegre and Boticas, in the mountains of Argemela, in the mountains of Arga, through this country outside. The feeling of abandonment, mistrust, loss of credibility of the institutions and the State prevails. Well we can speak in green mining, but it's not the chic and modern words that erase the fears of the populations. In order to restore people to confidence in public institutions and policies, we need to strengthen the transparency and scrutiny of processes, environmental, social and economic rights of the population. That is exactly what the PSD wants with its proposed amendments to the decree-law, in order to overcome weaknesses and incongruences. First, we must safeguard protected areas. Article 17. it provides that competitive procedures should, where possible, exclude protected areas from their scope. The formulation ‘wherever possible’ opens up the possibility of prospecting and exploitation in these areas, i.e. environmental interests are secondary to mining objectives. A misunderstanding, Minister. We have been creating protected areas for decades, the Natura 2000 Network, biosphere reserves, geoparks, UNESCO classified sites (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) and FAO, so that we can now sacrifice them on behalf of an ecological transition? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Is this what the government wants, Minister? Oh, my God! The PSD does not accept this discretion of the « whenever possible ». We propose to make the law clearer and we assume the priority of biodiversity conservation. We will safeguard all these protected areas. Secondly, we must strengthen full compliance with environmental legislation. The environmental impact assessment cannot be seen as a mere proforma, as a procedure that goes beyond and then fails to comply. The history of this type of process tells us that there are cases in which the conditions and measures to minimize environmental impacts remain to be complied with. We therefore propose that one of the reasons for the State to terminate the concession should be for failing to ensure compliance with the measures laid down in the environmental impact declaration. We want the environmental authorities to be able to demand this process in the face of serious and repeated non-compliance. Thirdly, the energy performance of farms needs to be improved. We need to strengthen measures to combat climate change in mining concessions. We defend that operating rights contracts include energy efficiency plans and greenhouse gas emission mitigation measures. Fourthly, we want to promote a more balanced distribution of the revenues generated by mining activities. We welcome the objective of allocating part of the operating revenue to the municipalities where the resources are located. It is fair and it is a form of compensation for the impacts caused. But it is important not to forget that the law provides for the creation of the fund of geological resources, which aims to support actions to enhance these resources. It must be specified in the law decree to which the revenue is returned, preventing the State from using them in a discretionary manner for other purposes. And finally, we need to create new approaches for involvement and participation of local communities. The greatest difficulty in granting new prospections or farms is the acceptance of local populations. This is the biggest challenge. It is complex and implies a special social and territorial sensitivity in the conduct of processes and in the assessment of impacts. Mining activities, even by adopting best practices, pose risks to which acceptance only occurs by communities when there is benefit sharing and is ensured a transparent and effective involvement in decision-making processes. in this area, the government has behaved like a mammoth in a porcelain store! [[PS protests.]] We need to renew and enhance public participation, which implies the use of instruments of social assessment and mediation of conflicts that are absent from this decree, but which are already applied in many other countries. It is essential to go beyond the administrative procedure and to ensure, in the diploma, a new generation of instruments that will enable people to cope with expectations. Therefore, we propose to introduce changes that curate these aspects through the social impact assessment to analyze perspectives of local communities, anticipate points of conflict, clarify public benefits and identify strategies for involvement and collaboration. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Parliamentary appreciation is an opportunity to improve the decree-law and thus restore the confidence of local populations and communities in mining licensing processes. If we have a fragile law, permeable to discretionary, we may put at risk everything we are trying to promote. The PSD defends the revision of this decree-law to ensure greater sustainability in valuing our geological resources, protecting and benefiting populations and not only the specific interests with access to power. The fight against climate change is against and not against populations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u35	We must be consistent and consistent with the Climate Bases Act that we have just approved in this House. For PSD, this law is not a reliable conversation nor can it be a mere «pin to use on the lapel»! The exploitation of geological resources must be done in a sustainable and socially just manner. Only then will it be possible to overcome the fears and doubts of the population and mobilize the country to face and overcome the energy and climate crisis. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u36	The Bureau recorded the registration of Mrs Joana Bento of the PS Parliamentary Group to make a request for clarification. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u37	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, we have just heard the PSD say that it was this government that wanted to "put the rose on the lapel". That is not true, because anyone who wanted today to "put the rose on the lapel" was the gentlemen, forgetting why we were here today. But it's good to remember. This amnesia they wanted to pass is, in fact, shocking. I wanted to ask you, Mr. Member, where was the PSD in 2011 when you signed the prospecting and research contracts,... [[PSD protests.]] ...degrading the populations of their discussion. Have you questioned the government about what impacts of these exploration and research contracts? We don't think so. In 2012 they proposed some legislative amendments? Did they promote them? No, no, no. Have the populations heard about the various proposals for exploration and research at the approval of the National Strategy for Geological Resources? In 2013, did the clarification sessions with the populations that promoted them? In his speech, he spoke several times about the rights of the people, the health of the people and their quality of life, the heritage. I will remind you, Mr President, that on 20 March 2015 in this House the only concern your regime was — and I quote the words of Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva : « We are facing a much more investment-friendly regime ». Was there any word about the legitimate concern of the people? None, sir! None! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, speaking of deafness, it is good to remember that this government has led to an experimental concession contract in Argemela's greenhouse. He went to meet the people. And why? Because the prospecting and research contracts made by VV. Ex. 2011 until 2014 did not safeguard the interests of the populations. In 2015, during the discussion of Law No 54 / 2015, in this debate I just mentioned, were they concerned about promoting public participation in all stages of rights allocation, public sessions with populations? No, sir. Have they promoted the monitoring of exploitation work in conjunction with local authorities? No, sir. Were they concerned about promoting consultation with the municipalities concerned? No, sir. Mr President, in this farming plan that is here today in plenary, the PSD does not bring us nor does it reveal anything new but an amnesia that is very loud in view of what happened in 2011 and simply reaffirms the position that, in power, it is inert in the face of the concern of the people and it is only now that it comes — it is known why, probably because it is with internal elections and discussing the forthcoming legislative elections — to worry about the real and legitimate concerns of the people! You know, Mr. Deputy, how did you know in Argemela about the prospecting and research contract signed in 2017? It was by a 2017 newspaper announcement. That is how the populations of Argemela had this knowledge. Do you not think that the public consultation that is being promoted today is an extraordinary advance? [[PSD protests.]] The prospecting and research contract is 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u38	The contract is 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u39	So, honourable Member, does not agree that in 2021, in view of the Socialist Party's proposal, at the stage of prospecting and research and at the other stages of the process, it is good to have the contribution of the people and to look at their legitimate concerns? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u40	To reply, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u41	Mr. President, I confess my surprise at the unexpected nature of Mrs. Joana Bento's question... [[Protests by the Under-Secretary of State and Energy.]] Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau. Mr Secretary of State, during my speech, was insistently intervening and preventing my intervention. [[PSD applause.]] It is unacceptable that he does not know how to behave! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u42	From up here, at the table, we didn't hear anything. I'm sorry, but it's a sound problem. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u43	But when I speak, the Secretary of State will have an opportunity to explain his attitude. If we had listened, we would have intervened, as it is obvious. You may proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u44	Mrs. Joana Bento, I confess my surprise at the unexpected nature of your question. I was hoping that Mrs Deputy, who has a past in defense of Argemela's greenhouse, her people, who has torn her clothes several times to defend her interests, would congratulate me on this intervention and on the proposals that the PSD is making to strengthen the rights of the people! [[Protests from PS MP Joana Bento.]] I have listened to her carefully, Mrs. Deputies. Thank you for letting me talk now. I was hoping that the honourable Member would join those who defended the people and that when they came here they did not change their opinion or change their position on the priority that must be given to protecting people's rights and protecting the environment and natural resources. I was expecting, for example, that the honourable Member, when her Government had taken six years to regulate the mine law that the previous government had left, had it insurmounted this delay, because the truth is that it would have succeeded in strengthening the defence and protection of the people. But in all these years, on the part of the honourable Member, I have only heard the silence. I do not recognize, in its struggle and in its internal struggle, that it is by the people as it has been in the past. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u45	What we are doing today, here, is exactly that, is, with consistency, to continue a work that was done with the preparation and approval of the mine law, which opened a new era, a new generation for mining in Portugal. And the six months that were given to the government to prepare this law took six years! [[Protests from PS MP Joana Bento.]] You know why? Exactly for the same reason why the Government has now signed all these contracts. It was to try to go as quickly as possible to avoid the eventual approval of these amendments in this House, which can be more demanding in relation to the protection of populations, the protection of their rights, the environment and biodiversity. That's what we're doing here today, Your Honor! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u46	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Parliamentary Group of the NAP would like to welcome the legislative agenda on this issue, a legislative decree with which we came in May this year, which regulates mining in our country and which clearly deserves a parliamentary review. This is a law with many intentions, whose implicit principles, if they were to come true, would in fact protect the environment, the peoples, the people. First of all, in the decree there is a intention that there will be no interventions in sensitive areas, but what this law will really do is do so, "when and whenever possible. Do not keep on seeking. ” But whenever possible, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it does not protect our habitats, it does not protect our natural heritage, it does not protect the populations, which have in practice been ignored in recent decades by successive governments. It's not much to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Court of Justice concluded in 2019 that Portugal has not complied with the Habitats Directive since 2009 by failing to adopt the measures necessary for the conservation of natural habitats and species present in the 61 sites of Community importance concerned. The Portuguese Government failed, but it was not because of its inability to do so. It did not comply to undermine certain interests that send the environment to the forefront. This is the case with Montijo airport, tourism projects in Troy and Comporta, intensive olives and even mining farms, which have received, and well, the demand of the populations. In March 2020, 11 years after successive non-compliance by the various governments, 61 sites of Community interest were classified as special conservation areas. We could think, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem has been solved, but no. The management plans specific to these places, which is, in fact, what will make the difference, must only be completed in 2022, that is, 13 years after what would be due! Until then, we will continue to have environmental impact studies that completely disregard the consequences that projects will cause in habitats and protected species and we will perpetuate what has been the government's decision: subordinate the environment, subordinate the environmental health and the health of people to the economic interests of few. The results of this inaction are in sight: Portugal is in 4. the place in the European ranking of threatened species, with a total of 456 threatened species. Between 2016 and 2019, species at risk of extinction in Portugal practically doubled from 281 to the current number of 456. At world level, Portugal is 27. the country with more threatened species, which puts us in 15 % of countries with more species at risk of extinction. Given the size of our territory, it is an incredible performance, but for the worst reasons. Therefore, within the framework of this parliamentary assessment, the NAP brings several proposals for amendments to this decree. The first proposal aims to ensure effective political courage to ensure in the law that no mining interventions will occur in environmentally sensitive areas. The second proposal is to ensure that the location of mining projects does not occur within a perimeter of less than 5 km of the population agglomerates. Again, the legislation under parliamentary review makes it possible to locate projects less than 1 km away from these clusters, provided mitigation measures are implemented. However, the NAP argues that there are no possible mitigation measures for a distance of less than 5 km and that populations, who will already have to suffer the impacts of mining exploitation on the vicinity of their dwellings, will not be able to suffer these impacts literally on the shoulder of their door. The example used by the people who live in the vicinity of the Algemela greenhouse, whose request for classification as natural heritage is in progress, is clear: « They want to make mining in the attic of our houses». What if it were your home, Minister? What if it were your home, Mr. Secretary of State? The third proposal that the NAP brings is linked to the binding pronunciation of the municipalities. On the one hand, it is necessary to extend this binding declaration to the situations of experimental exploitation, of direct allocation to grant the request of the person concerned and to the pending proceedings, which are clear gaps in the law in force and which we are discussing today. On the other hand, the binding opinion of the municipalities cannot be restricted to compliance with the legal requirements. The legislation does not ensure the possibility of municipalities having this binding power, treating them as mere verifiers of the legal framework. For the NAP, an inconformity with the legal framework should always represent the inviolability of projects, but municipalities cannot be treated by the government as a secretary of legal action. The municipalities are the voice of the local population.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u48	You have the floor to speak to Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Europe has only 9 % of the critical raw materials it needs for its economic development — 9 %! — and today, especially because of the COVID, we are experiencing a crisis of raw materials. We do not have raw materials, and we do not have them because, among other things, as it is easy to understand, more than 90 % are imported from outside the European area. It is therefore essential that Europe, like Portugal, be as dependent as possible on these raw materials, knowing that it will always be very dependent on the import of these raw materials. The exploitation of the mineral masses—it is these raw materials that we are talking about— has to be done as sustainable as possible and that means different things, but obviously they add up and complete, firstly, with the greatest possible environmental requirements. There is no framework as rigorous in the world as it is in Europe. In other words, exploitation in our country or neighbouring countries will certainly be the strictest of all from an environmental point of view. Speaking in sustainability obviously means sharing as much wealth as possible generated and created with those who live near the spaces where these mines will exist. Naturally, sustainability also means being able to create the greatest possible wealth to distribute. Do you have an environmental impact mine? Yeah. Clearly, the answer is 'yes' and, therefore, before a license... Now, contrary to what Mr. Nelson Peralta said, there is no licence or mine from this law. There will never be any mines in Portugal that have not previously an environmental impact assessment, such as, in fact, it always has any other project of significant size in mines.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u50	It's not before! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u51	It is absolutely essential to say that, unlike the Government of Passos Coelho and Minister Álvaro Santos Pereira — I remember the phrase of it, « We have a mining project» — this government has no mining promotion project. This government has as far as possible a project of structuring value chains from its mineral masses, of course. However, the government wants to exploit as little as possible as possible by now, and we have no doubt about that. This is, necessarily, to move more and more towards a circular economy that manages resources, but it is absolutely essential that we be able to make use of the mineral masses that we have, mainly when they are very important for decarbonisation and digitisation. The regulation of the law of mines — and we will never forget that we are not doing any law, because we have defined bays, which we inherited, adopted by this Parliament before we are government — has even the purpose of defending environmental conditions, involving communities, sharing and promoting, as far as possible, the creation of value contracts. Public participation in all stages of the allocation of rights; all new monitoring mechanisms; the power of municipalities to have a binding opinion, therefore negative, when the purpose of exploitation was born of a particular individual. The municipalities have this power, they do not have the power, which seems to be desired by some, to be forced to say "no". In fact, the power to force an authority to say 'no' is not part of our proposal for a decree. Environmental impact assessment is made even more demanding in its thresholds. It is clear that when areas are particularly relevant to the environment and conservation of nature care must be even greater. The obligation to locate the seat of the concessionaire in the municipality covered by the concession or in one of the municipalities covered by the concession covers more than one municipality. All the rules laid down for the farming plan, and there was nothing here, go far beyond the proposals that the PSD makes in this regard. There is, at this moment, environmental care in a part that was completely stripped of such and that is exactly the part of prospecting and research, because the environmental obligations, many of which have already come from behind, existed only at the site of exploitation. There is also a sharing of between one third and 50 % of royalties with local communities and authorities, and there is always a assumption in the case of the exploitation of any mine, which is as follows: unlike what is done in Portugal and Europe outside, a mine does not begin on the day the exploitation begins. Don't! A mine begins on the day the exploration starts and has rules for it itself, as well as does not end on the day the exploration ends. Don't! We know that some of the impacts, mainly the landscapeists, will remain in the landscape and therefore the whole commitment to the exploitation of that same mine is thought for a much longer time than the time of the economic operation itself. On the absence of research contracts on the Natura 2000 Network and the generalized will, in particular the PSD, that they exist, I address to Mr. Luís Leite Ramos to tell him that his tears are even crocodile tears. This map has the 44 contracts signed between 2011 and 2015 by the VV Government. Ex. and located in areas of protection of Nature. The speaker displayed the map he mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I have been careful not to use any adjectives in my sentence. These are them! I don't complain about anything, but these are VV contracts. Ex. They signed. Do you know where 4 of these 44 contracts are? They are at the Serra d’Arga. You know what? To explore lithium. And you know, as we all know in this Chamber, that the rights to exploitation result soon when this right is assigned to research. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was what Mr VV. They did. I imagine you will ask me how many were signed during the time of this government and I answer you already: there were 10. I'm not crying at all, I'm telling you it's hypocrisy on the VV side. Ex.s come to propose what they are proposing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, it is really in the planning plans and the territorial management rules of the country that must be limited both mine exploitation and any other activity. It should not be said, Mr President, that in the next national road plan which is being discussed here there will be no road in a protected area, or that the next time the industrial licensing mechanism is being revised there will be no industry in a protected area, or already now that the next time there are changes to the housing scheme is going to be said « not a house in a protected area ». That is not what you say, Mr, is obviously in the Natura 2000 regime. And, yes, honourable Member, there are situations where it is absolutely unacceptable to be granted a mine. I have no doubt as much about this, both in natural spaces and in urban spaces. Do not imagine, of course, that there may be a mine in the Land of Paço, in Lisbon, or in the Square of Liberty, in Porto, but that you do not want to condition. And they don't want to condition that because it was an absurd thing to do, that's obvious. Mr President, we have the regulation of a law in which we truly pride ourselves on the rules of environmental protection, the involvement of the communities, the power given to the local authority, except in one case — so that we do not have any more Montijo airports and silly rules! — in which promotion exists from the State. Yes, Mr President, contrary to what other parties propose, which is the expropriation of a good that the State has, says the Constitution that mineral and geological resources are in fact the state, so what we do is give full power to municipalities when the initiative is a particular one. On a number of things that have been said and which, of course, were not in my first intervention, I cannot but say that, about two weeks ago, in a ceremony — I do not know how they speak in secret! — the DGEG (Directorate-General for Energy and Geology), as you do, each year, 9 new contracts have been signed. You might say there were 14 contracts whenever you wanted, but it was 9! In fact, I tell you that in 2020, at the same ceremony, 16 new contracts were signed and 13 were signed in 2019. This is the tradition of DGEG. Once again, there is no adjective here, as when I address myself to Mr Leite Ramos. In fact, it is an administrative decision and what the administrative authorities essentially do — and none of us will want it to be different — is the law. Complying with the law, and very well, these 9 contracts were then signed. Five of them are actually operating. They say it was « in a hurry », but some began in 2011, others in 2012 and others still in 2014. The five that we have signed, among them from Argemela, all come from the PSD government and it is no wonder that it is so, I insist! You had a mining project for Portugal and 44 out of 112 contracts were signed. Repeat: 112! The gentlemen, yes, had a mine promotion project. Four exploration and research contracts were also signed, those contracts that, although they had come from behind, because the decree-law has a provisional regime, all of them have behind binding opinions of the authorities. in these four, the authorities where they will be located have always been positive, which is always binding. Do not tell me that things have not changed, that they have not changed much and that they have not changed for the better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u52	Mr Minister, you have seven requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u53	Mr President, I shall reply together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u54	All right, Minister. I now give the floor to Mr Nelson Peralta of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u55	Mr President, the Minister's statement raises a few questions. Mr. Minister said, showing up to a map: «Look how a PSD government has made such a bad mining promotion plan, made such bad concessions». Now, Mr. Minister, who is only Minister, must obey contracts that come from behind!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u56	That's not what the Minister said!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u57	The question is therefore the following: Mr Minister, having these contracts, considering that they should not exist and that any government can again come and implement a wrong promotion plan, would it not be appropriate and proper for the protection of the environment and the people to change this law so that these concessions, which they think are so negative, may arise one day, even after you have stopped being a minister? At least this! What we see, in concrete terms, is that mining in protected areas is possible with this law. We want to change this so that this government or any government next cannot make new mines in protected areas or already in protected areas under the United Nations. Mr Minister, he also says that Members want to expropriate the State of their competences in relation to mines. Well, I don't know who you're talking to. The Left Block wants the mineral resources to be public property and, when exploited, to be exploited by a public and non- privatized company, as Mr. Minister and his Government defend. So we can't understand. Mr Minister, I also erroneously told us that the environmental impact assessment is done before the mines, before the whole process. No, it's after the concession! We propose...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u58	But before the mine!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u59	I see that you guys are. Governors are very upset today. What we have on the table is that the environmental impact assessment is done not after the concession contract, but before, that is, the state defines where it should or should not be mines and makes an environmental impact assessment without the interests of large multinationals exert a huge pressure on this assessment, saying it has to be there. Mr. Minister, you spoke a little bit about the airport. Indeed, in order to avoid the economic interests to dictate where essential infrastructures are made for the country and whether they are the economic interests to dictate the result of environmental impact assessments, it would be appropriate for them to be prior to granting, before any rights are decided. We see that the Minister here says that everything is fine, that everything must continue equally, that there is a crisis of raw materials on the globe, but that we must follow the same model of development that we have followed so far, always destroying resources to put them in the economy, always taking public resources to private companies, always taking away what is national sovereignty, and what we see is that the environment is neither taken nor found. I'm asking one last question. Do not you think it is right to take all the expressions as « if possible », « preferably », « perhaps»? Mines are worth more than the MDPs, are they worth more than the planning plans? Oh, my God! Would it not be appropriate to remove all this opacity, all these expressions such as 'if not'? At least we would think it was very positive, such as when there is a mine, such as the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries always said that the recovery plan was implemented at the same time as the mine plan and not at the end. We see that there are exceptions in everything and we want to remove these exceptions to protect populations, the Portuguese economy and the environment. in that, you failed at all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u60	Mrs Cláudia André, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State, the signing of the contract for the award of the concession of the Lithium mining of the Argemela greenhouse is based on premises which are, at least, questionable. Let's see: first, the contract to grant the Algerian saw has no environmental impact assessment. Or is it that you have and is not published, Minister? Second, there is no agreement of the population. We know that because the population manifested itself, even last weekend, in a wake up at a theatre where Mr. Prime Minister was, and did not get any answer. How many public clarification sessions have these populations had? at this moment, they didn't have any. [[PS protests.]] It was signed before the conclusion! All this contract for the award of the Algerian greenhouse was signed before the parliamentary assessment discussed today. Why would it be? So much about the right of prospecting and exploitation, but today we are talking about a contract for the award of the Algerian greenhouse, i.e. these farms were the consequence of this contract. Therefore, you have agreed and continue with a methodology... [[Protests from PS MP Joana Bento.]] Sorry, I know my idea is to explain the concerns of our White Castle district, of our populations. It must also be noted that, against all and against all, this contract was signed before this discussion. Why would it be? More, it was signed in a very strange way, i.e., the day before the budget lead for 2022. We all knew that the Assembly of the Republic was going to be dissolved, but even so these contracts were signed. There is still another great doubt: according to DGEG, if the concessionary company can do nothing before the environmental impact declaration and if this, which is known, does not yet exist, then why has the accelerated conclusion of a contract that does not know whether it can be implemented? More: does this anticipation want to grant rights before any amendment to this decree today under discussion? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u62	Mr. Minister, as you know, the saw of Argemel is located in the Town Councils of Fundão and Covilhã, among the parish of Barco, Lavacolhos and Silvares, along the river Zêzere. The people do not agree with this exploitation, although they did not have the opportunity to say in any public debate on the spot, contrary to what the honourable Member meant, when she said « it seems this time». [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u63	They had, they had!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u64	The populations do not agree with this exploitation and remember well the Panasqueira mines, which, as we know, have caused great environmental damage and health. We, the people of the interior, in environmental quality, in endogenous products, in our stories, have our source of revenue and we would like to see this represented. I know that what is inside is far from here — « far from the eyes, far from the heart» — but, Minister, I would just like to leave one last question. What are the benefits and riches — an expression that Mr. Minister used today — that this government has to offer to the region and, above all, to the populations of the parish of Barco, Coutada, Silvares and Lavacoles? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u65	Mrs Paula Santos of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, 14 contracts were signed very recently last month, some exploitation, other research and exploration. I would like to begin by asking you the following: how does it justify signing these contracts, totally disregarding the opinion of the people? The process of public participation cannot simply be a process, a mere formality, in which, then, in concrete, in development, in appreciation, the legitimate concerns that people raise in this process are completely ignored. Public participation is much more than that, Minister! Public participation is the involvement of the populations, of the various entities, of the authorities, is in fact to listen, to evaluate what is placed and to consider the point of view in the conclusions to be drawn in relation to this same process. It cannot be a pro-formity to say that it has been done and then not to draw any consequences or consideration in relation to what has been placed on the table. This is one of the key aspects which the CFP places in this Parliamentary assessment: the reports on regulation and public participation must consider and integrate what should be considered in relation to the projects and what is at issue in relation to these processes. Mr Minister, in his speech, confirmed that, in fact, when research and prospecting rights are allocated, rights are automatically granted in the field of exploitation. That is what we cannot follow and what we consider to be wrong. Therefore, the CFP considers that there must be a public entity and that the State has the responsibility to have intervention capacity on this issue. Mr. Minister, he also said that the mine does not end when the exploration is over. But, Minister, how many examples do we know of environmental liabilities completed these mining holdings? Oh, my God! How many? It is precisely because of the experiences that many of these populations have, in which the liabilities continue there, where the wastes continue there, which, in fact, dwell on these concerns. In addition to public health issues, in addition to issues related to the need to safeguard water resources, air quality, the guarantee of the continuity of traditional activities, particularly agriculture and livestock, these past examples show that public interest and populations are not in fact safeguarded and that the interests of populations have not been considered. We also believe that it is important that people's views should not be overlooked in these processes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u67	I now give the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u68	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, there are many ways of telling a story and there is something we actually agree with: mining is not harmless. We well know what the problems caused by the extraction, for example, of volfrámio, in the Panasqueira mine, have already been referred here to the sequels left at all levels in the Urgeirice, or even in Borrella, one of the contracts that you have recently signed, by the abandonment to which you have been and is voted and to which this signed contract will not give an answer. So we must be careful and we must also be demanding, but that is not the case. The government wants to pass a banal mining law through a law that protects the population, which protects protected territories and areas, but once again it is not true. To demonstrate this, we are going to the concrete of the abstractions in which the government does not want to play. On environmental impact assessments, the European Commission has been clear: Portuguese legislation is not in accordance with the information to be made available. On this point, the situation of lithium exploitation in Covas do Barroso is quite demonstrative: in the only Portuguese territory classified as world agricultural heritage by the UN, APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency) refuses and refused to provide documentation to associations affected by the exploitation, even after the binding decision of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents. Mr Minister, the opinion said that access to environmental information does not depend on the existence of a public consultation phase, nor is it limited by it. Thus, the Ministry of the Environment and APA now have a complaint accepted by the committee of the Aarhus Convention. I therefore leave the question to you: Mr Minister, if everything is so clear, so transparent, so green, why should you ring and retain the information due to the affected population in Boticas? Why are these private processes not included in the strategic environmental assessment that is being done in the lithium program? In Algeria, the lack of protection of the populations with the proposed exploitation of a lithium mine even above the parish of Barco, which lies between the Serra da Estrela and the Serra da Gardunha, next to the river Zêzere, as read on the site of the camera of Covilhã. Zezere feeds the albueira de Castelo de Bode and also feeds the city of Lisboa. There are no economic feasibility reports, environmental feasibility reports, or even public health reports, but there is already a contract signed with PANNN — Geoscience Consultants, Lda. , a company with capital of €40 000, which does not provide guarantees of recovery and which has been the target of several negative opinions, in particular of the bodies of local democracy affected. Mr President, do you really think it is possible to make mining on top of the population and against your will? And in the Numão mine, where a contract is signed with an insolvency firm for the exploitation of gold, in a protected area 500 m from the High Douro Vinhateiro? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, protected areas must always be protected, just as populations must always be heard, participating in the entire process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u69	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS now has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u70	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, today we are debating a decree of law, submitted by the Government, which is regulating a 2015 law, approved during the PSD / CDS government, which affects mine exploitation. There are two facts in this area that need to be highlighted. The first is about exploitation in protected areas. And what do we have to say about this law passed during the PSD/CDS government? We have to say that the law is totally omitted as regards the prohibition of the exploitation of geological resources in protected areas or in Natura 2000 areas. But more than that, not only is the law omitted, as today the Minister has told us that during that government, that is, between 2011 and 2015, 44 contracts concerning protected areas have been approved. This is factual! It is the curriculum with which the PSD presents itself in this debate on mining in protected areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u72	The second point concerns public participation. In the law adopted in 2015, during the PSD / CDS government, public participation was limited to advertising a notice in the DiáriodaRepublica. It was a formal procedure, this was the concept of public participation that the PSD had at the time. Today, this regulation is making a huge leap in public participation and transparency. The PSD presents itself in this debate to defend non-exploration in protected areas and to defend public participation, all contrary to what it did while it was government. This is the reality! These are the facts! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third and final point has to do with the exploitation of lithium. Lithium is essential for energy transition, but its exploitation cannot be made at any cost. Portugal cannot afford not to make sustainable use of its resources, but it must do so, of course, without jeopardising the well-being of the people. That is why it is important to assess the impacts, as provided for by law. The contracts recently signed by the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology — where, as we know, Lithium exploiters are included — run, as it is known and as it has been said today on several occasions, of rights granted by the PSD/CDS Government between 2011 and 2014. For example, in my district, Castelo Branco, it was the PSD / CDS government that, in 2011, attributed the rights of prospecting and research for the exploitation of lithium in the mountains of Argemela. And you know how he did it? Without any scrutiny and public debate. When they signed that contract, nothing was clarified, nothing was asked to the people. The PSD / CDS government and the municipalities of Fundão and Covilhã, at the time also led by PSD autarchs, did not do what they competed with. There was no public debate. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] But with this new regulation, so it does not happen again in the future, which does not exempt us from having to hear again the populations of the interior, which have been the guardians of the territory. We must ensure that their legitimate concerns are heard and considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u74	in this context, there are three principles that should be observed. First, the principle of proximity. These decisions cannot be implemented by decree from a cabinet, as the PSD / CDS government did. These decisions are made on the ground, with people and with institutions. Second, the principle of knowledge. There is a lot of misinformation in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u75	There is! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u76	It is necessary to ensure that decisions are made on the basis of science and knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u77	It's true, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u78	Thirdly, the principle of clarification, from the very outset, the clarification of the benches, which did not read this decree, because if they had read, they did not say that there was no public participation in this decree. We must also clarify and inform, fighting the populism and the false truths that are launched. It is in this context that we consider and hope that the environmental impact studies that will be carried out will enhance these principles of proximity, knowledge and clarification. It is at this stage that we are and the honourable Member reveals a deep ignorance about the matter. We are in the study phase, assessing the environmental impact, identifying compensatory measures. [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] What has been signed, Mrs Commissioner — I will explain to you, because I see that it is difficult to understand — does not confer the right to explore, confers the right to assess. If the environmental impact assessment is unfavourable, there will be no mining exploitation! That is, in accordance with the law, what is important to assess. That's what you're going to do, Mrs. Deputy. You have to read the papers better and not be hasty. Read it carefully! [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this regard, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a question to conclude. Will the environmental impact study allow for a debate of proximity and clarity for populations? What can populations expect from environmental impact studies, particularly the Argemela greenhouse and other sites? Will we be close? Will we have greater dialogue, how does this government enter into this bill? On this matter, the PSD/CDS Government has done nothing. They come to defend one thing and did exactly the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u79	To request clarification, Mr José Maria Cardoso of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u80	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in today’s debate I come to talk to you particularly about the Serra d’Arga and the populations of Alto Minho living in Caminha, Vila Nova de Cerveira, Viana do Castelo, Ponte de Lima, Paredes de Cura. These are the councils of the Arga area covered by the competition that the government wants to launch to assign exploration and research rights of lithium and other minerals. In recent years, the village populations of these municipalities have come to know that there is lithium beneath the land they tread. What for many can be considered a blessing, for others — in particular, these populations — is a curse! These fears are legitimate, among other reasons, because no one has ever listened to them and involved them in the intentions of the government. This mania of power operating away from people and of understanding that they do not count for decisions is a little democratic procedure and that at nothing contributes to respect for local communities, which are the sufferers of decisions of government centralism and of the effects arising there. The inhabitants of these councils, particularly those in the most affected areas — many of them, by sign, isolated, suffering a lot from the lack of services — even last day 23 gave a demonstration of their discontent and revolt in a grand protest event held in Viana do Castelo. Are they all wrong? Are they all manipulated? The people who live and work in this territory know very well that there is no green mining, as Mr. Minister and his government claim. They know that there is nothing green about air, water, soil contamination caused by mining activity. They know that there is nothing green in the degradation of ecosystems, habitats, species, as a result of mining. And it is because they know that mining is not green that they want to be heard, because their lives, their work, their territory, are at stake. What happens is that the government's decree of law removes the people from the process: monitoring committees, only when the government wants and never in the stages of prior evaluation, prospection, research and exploitation. Mr President, I have just said that a mining operation has an environmental impact. There you go! That is precisely why forms of public participation should be created, with the clarification and involvement of citizens at all stages of the process, because it is really the people who suffer from this impact. Now, what the decree says is not that. What you are telling people is that they can eventually follow the holding when everything is decided. The municipalities can also pronounce themselves, but this is of no value in competitions that cover their territory. We do not accept this policy of the fact achieved! There are alternatives and there are other modes of procedure. That is why we bring proposals to ensure that the participation of the populations is full and the decision of the binding municipalities. It is the local communities that must decide the future of their territory and not the interests of any entity, whether national or international. By the people of Upper Minho, the Serra d’Arga will soon be classified as a protected landscape of regional interest. It is a victory of social movements, which assume leadership in the protection of nature. But with the decree of your Government, Minister, and the protected areas are not safe from mining. You can be sure that we will do everything to get rid of the mining farm the Serra d’Arga and all the protected areas of the country. In order to justify mining, Mr Minister, he often asks, in an insinuous way, whether what we have in our pocket is after all not a lithium battery cell phone. But it is not what we have in our pockets that should ask the questions, that is what the economic groups of mining want in their pockets. Or do you think that this exploitation, even on the basis of decarbonisation, can call into question the natural resources that support the lives of local communities? Do you really think, Minister, that the future of these populations is determined by depopulation and abandonment? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u81	I now give the floor to Mr Carlos Brás of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS Parliamentary Group and I in particular did not want to allow the Government and the Minister to be welcomed today by the Council of Ministers for the resolution on the reprogramming of multiannual charges with the acquisition of services for the removal of hazardous waste in São Pedro da Cova. Mr. Minister knows the territory, knows the problem well, and this is a very important theme for both the parish of St. Peter of the Cova and Gondomar. That is why we congratulate the Government and we congratulate the Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u83	This was hard! You will have to answer this question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u84	There are no further requests for clarification, so I give the floor to reply to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by thanking Mr Carlos Brás' gesture of sympathy. In fact, at the end of summer, when St. Peter's work was on its way to the end, a set of grenades was found in the middle and it was necessary to suspend the work, which was delayed a little. But surely, until spring, everything will be over. Turning to the responses, an environmental impact assessment can only be made on a concrete object. This is, to me, crystal clear evidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u86	The study only exists on exploration, is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u87	I cannot understand what the Block is for an environmental impact assessment, i.e. what it means to want resources and money to be spent on the Administration so that it can be delivered, so as to promote a public discussion—because they all have a public discussion—about something that does not exist. It seems to me absolutely extraordinary the position that the Bloc has on this matter. First, we take an empty set, then we make the environmental impact assessment. We may even be worrying people about something that, after all, does not exist and is never to exist! Honestly, I can't understand your proposal. Your proposal is useless, yours is a proposal that consumes money from the Administration, your proposal has no feet or heads! What you are saying with your proposal is that environmental impact assessment should be made of a non-existent nature and then, yes, I am not saying that this is your intention, because I think VV. Ex. You just don't know anything about this! — your intention is, once this environmental impact assessment has been approved, to be made conditional upon the Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's protests.]] Mr. Nelson Peralta, look, God protect us! I don't know much more what to say than that. Mrs Cláudia André, when I address Mr Luís Leite Ramos, I have one question: don't use any adjectives. What I said is absolutely factual and the contract of Argemela, which assigns rights to Argemela, comes from November 2, 2011. Madam Member, look at me having a very robust Jewish-Christian complex, but if you want me to say the word here, it's your fault! It's your fault, it's yours, and it can't be any other way! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Protests Cláudia André.]] Therefore, if you want to regret, if you are indeed ashamed of what has been done in the time when you were in the government, be willing. I'll give you one minute of my time if your parliamentary group will allow you. Now, I'm sorry but what happened in Argemela resulted from a contract signed in 2011. I didn't use any adjective here, but from the moment that you put things in the way you put them, I can't answer differently. If there's any guilty here, it's the woman who's guilty! Do you want to repent? Hang in there! But for now, for now and forever, it will be your fault. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Paula Santos, you can say several times that there are 14 contracts, but there are nine. Don't hurt me, but it's actually nine. Of these nine — explained and repeated — five come from behind, between 2011 and 2014. Is it really "in a hurry" to sign a contract in 12 years? Oh, my God! ...it's obviously a hurry! Open... But, Mrs Deputies, the other four contracts, the contracts that have been entered into since the beginning by us, which are of prospect and research, by a decision that I assume is administrative—and with this I am not saying either good or bad—they all have binding opinions from the authorities. Some, as you imagine, also from the PCP. I therefore cannot understand how it says that the will of the people is disregarded. If, objectively, the autarchs — usually those who are elected by the party of V. Ex.a, who respect like all others — have this position in a binding favorable opinion, I do not know what you mean by « people are not respected and their wills». There are environmental liabilities, there are, Mrs. I must recognize one thing, with all humility: do I have many examples to give mines in Portugal that are working in such a way that I can be proud of from an environmental point of view? Don't! Not in Portugal, not in Europe, not in the rest of the world. But some exist and I give you the example of SOMINCOR, which by chance remains on the Natura 2000 Network. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, there are, in fact, many ways to tell a story and even, if you wish, not to tell it in a real way. But the strategic environmental assessment and thus also making the bridge for Mr. José Maria Cardoso and thus concluding, with regard to what the competition is, there is no competition. What we did, from the sites where the LNEG ( National Laboratory for Energy and Geology) and the DGEG had found a great potential for lithium, was to choose 3, 6, 8, 10, although there were more 4, but the other 4 were largely in protected areas. So we rule them out, leave them out. of these 10, two are Montalegre and Boticas, for which there is already what you know exists, i.e., operating contracts signed. Therefore, it would make no sense to make a strategic environmental assessment in these cases. For the other 8, what we did was remove the Natura 2000 Network, and the Natura 2000 Network with some small hits from the country but with a very significant hit in the Serra d’Arga. And, perhaps, until then it is seen that in fact everything that is Natura 2000 has come out of this same competition. So we couldn't have done better, we couldn't have done more carefully, we couldn't have respected these protected areas anymore. Now, the honourable Member says to me this way: “It wasn’t a strategic environmental assessment, it was one that said ‘no’, it was one that dropped everything”. The serious strategic environmental assessment, in the perspective of the Left Block, is the one that is not worth doing, because it is to chum everything and ready! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] I have only one environmental concern: the four contracts signed by the PSD and now seem to have been forgotten. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u88	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Deputy of the CDS-PP Miguel Arrobas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with a more relevant potential as regards the identification and exploitation of geological resources with economic interest. According to the National Strategy for Geological Resources — Mineral Resources, approved in 2012, estimates of the value of exploitable geological resources allow, in the first simplified approach, to obtain the value of the national gross domestic product. The potential of the extractive industry for our economy is diverse, highlighting, in addition to the gains with the mining extraction, the promotion of the downstream sectors, in particular the processing and construction industries, and the development of small and medium-sized local companies for the provision of goods and services. Sustainable development requires, however, that such benefits be obtained without compromising the environmental, social and cultural conditions of each territory and without generating long-term negative impacts. Economic competitiveness and environmental protection must therefore be compatible. To this end, it is important that the regulatory framework regulating the activities of the discovery and exploitation of geological resources ensures this balance. Law No 54 / 2015, of 22 June, establishing the basis for the legal regime of the discovery and use of geological resources, required the Government to approve two supplementary diplomas within three months, one of which relates to the disclosure and use of mineral deposits. The deadline was three months, but this specific regulation was adopted only this year, six years later. The six-year delay required the presentation of a clear, objective diploma to fill gaps and create conditions for the responsible and sustainable exploitation of mineral resources in our country. That's not what happened. The decree-law approved by the government did not bring clarity, it did not create solutions that stimulate activities related to the mining sector, did not ensure the articulation of these solutions with the different social dynamics and land occupations and did not bring confidence in the preservation of the environment. One of the problems we have identified in this diploma concerns procedures. The mining licensing process in Portugal often extends indefinitely, making the entire project impossible, regardless of the value or quality of the mineral resources in question. Several companies, national and international, wait and despair for several years until they have responded to their requests for rights. Contrary to what would be expected, the diploma does not simplify the procedures, before extending the deadlines and the number of entities involved in the licensing process. The associations of the sector consider that the complexity of the procedure may result in the sharp decrease in international attractiveness indicators. With this, the country will lose investment in this area, just as it will lose the opportunity to know better the geological substrate of the national territory. This is a sector in which the interest of companies is dependent on the volatility of prices to which minerals or their derivatives are traded on the international market, the slow and inadequate response of regulatory entities can lead to the loss of many investments. What the CDS defends about this matter is simple: a speedy decision-making process that, without losing the requirement for compliance with social and environmental standards, does not lead to the loss of investment or the loss of competitive advantage to our country in this area. Another aspect that we would like to highlight in this debate is the doubt that the expression'whenever possible' raises, as well as the discretionaryness it introduces in a process which should be clear, linear, free from doubts and guided by objective criteria. The formulation ‘where possible’ in several standards aims to ensure the possibility of exploration and mining in classified areas, in the event of economic viability of the project. However, the lack of an objective criterion that explains where one can and where there is no prospection and mining can open the door to discretion. As the PSD points out in its request for parliamentary assessment, this legislative option can lead to the emergence of pressure on political and administrative decision-makers, and may even favour corruption situations. Here, too, the uncertainty that the lack of an objective criterion raises can lead to the loss of relevant investments in this area. Mrs. Members, we believe that Portugal has good conditions, namely technical and scientific knowledge, to ensure a modern mining activity, which adds value to our economy, which preserves the natural heritage of each territory and guarantees the coexistence of various activities and forms of land occupation. If it is true that our country has, unfortunately, cases of mining environmental liabilities that, many decades later, still lack rehabilitation, it is true that the image of these environmental liabilities, far from technologically evolved practices that the mining sector currently has, cannot condition the contribution that mines can and should make to the development of the country. Knowledge, access and exploitation of mineral resources are essential to society today. The success of the transformations aimed at a low-carbon economy depends to a large extent on the regular supply of raw material in a competitive way, and it is certain that access to a considerable part of this raw material is dependent on the exploitation of mineral resources. About 60 % of the metals used in digital technologies, energy transition and new forms of mobility result from mining and processing activities recently highlighted by the European Commission. The idea we want to highlight in this debate is that the mining sector and the entire chain of processing and downstream marketing are not only incompatible with environmental conservation policies, as they can positively compete for environmental sustainability and energy transition. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u90	I now give the floor to Mr Ascenso Simões of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, in 1981, President Enver Hoxha invited Mr Pedro Filipe Soares for a visit to Albania and said to him: "You never accept development, because this development thing calls into question our socialism, true socialism; this thing of mine, industry and looking at the future is something that challenges our development, socialist development, the socialist protected, Albania", which is today well represented here by VV. Ex. But in 1985 President Jaruzelski, in Poland, also called Mr João Oliveira and said to him: « Calm down! Mines, no! Miners, no, because the guys are Solidarity, the guys want democracy! This thing of miners is a mess». And now much more! They lost Aljustrel and now they don't care about miners anymore, because Aljustrel is now socialist and wants development, right? Oh, my God! More: Adjustrel even is in the Natura 2000 area! Look at that! Let's close Aljustrel, exactly because it's on Natura 2000! But that's not all. Mr Adam Silva, in preparing for this debate, said to the head of the parliamentary group: "Well, we have a problem here. As it was our party that gave those licenses there to Boticas and Montalegre, we will recover article 13. that of the industrial conditioning law and we will say ‘We are against everything, as long as it is not for our friends’. This is the PSD position: they are against everything, provided the mines are not for your friends. If it was Eng.o Carlos Pimenta promoting this lithium thing, it was fine, because, at the time of Eng.o Carlos Pimenta, when those bonuses were given to the windmills, the PSD was quiet. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And when Dr. Passos Coelho's government, supported by Dr. Luís Ramos, gave those licenses to Montalegre and Boticas — ah! - Where did you hear them? Where were they? Who were those PSD Members who are now coming here to open their arms and say, "Of course, defend the people"? Oh, my God! Well, if we had the care to look at the proposals of these parties, with these rules, we, today, had not had sanitary landings, we had light. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We were the Land of the trash with these rules that the Left Block, the PCP and the PSD here present us. Ah, and also with those of the NAP, that's not here anymore! Well, Mr. President, we have a problem here. It is that this debate is not about the particular issue of mine law, this debate is the opening of the electoral campaign. It looks like that moment when the men of the columbophilia open the covers and go out all the pigeons of a seated. These parties opened the covers and went out of seat for the election campaign. And then they're going to hit the ground: "Where can we have three more votes? » It's here! In Viana do Castelo, we will have three more votes for the PAN, for the Left Block, for the PSD or for the PCP. But that is not our debate. Our debate is simple! We need to look at the time we live and the time we live requires that we have a use of our resources. The country has resources to take advantage of, provided it has the means to guarantee environmental conditions and remuneration for the population. This is the point: environmental conditions, compliance with strict environmental protection rules! If we look at the environment, we cannot come here on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays to defend it and on Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays to say "no, we do not want the environment, because this lithium thing is a mess". That is, we are walking towards a digital transformation, a climate transformation, where we need to take advantage of resources, but on the other hand, we do not want to take advantage of resources. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand! Look at parliamentary dignity! We are here defending the country, we are not here defending four or five votes that are most important for the next elections on January 30. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This country needs to look forward, it needs progress, it needs investment, it needs to be up to time! And what we had here today was an alliance between a left statistician and a right that does not know what it is today to break down a decree that is from the most advanced in Europe, from that which guarantees the environment and populations most. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u92	If dishonesty paid taxes, we had a well of oil here, we had a mine of dishonesty here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u93	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u94	Mr Adam Silva, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u95	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau, which stems from the intervention which has just been made by Mr Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u96	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u97	Mr President, I could ask for the floor to defend honor, but I will not. What I mean is the following: You conduct the work of this House superiorly. As for histrionism, the clowny which the Members want to do in their speeches, are in their right, but you will realize that I do not accept that Mr. Ascension Simões comes here with lies or, as they say in my land, with some lairs, trying to set himself up in a funny way, invoking my name. I can't accept it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u98	To reply, Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u99	Mr President, knowing the Rules of Procedure, as I know, from the back to the front, I make an appeal to the Bureau on the same terms. Mr. President, I have a lot of respect for clowns. It's a decent profession, it's a profession that pays taxes, it's a profession that funs our children. Never in my life would I come here to use clowns, which are so important people, to engage in political debate. But I would also not use Mr Adam Silva's regionalisms because, during this two-year legislature, Mr Adam Silva used so many regionalisms that practically national political life did not understand it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u100	By continuing our work, because that is what, in fact, matters and not these small incidents, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Lopes of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Continuing to speak transmontano, in the district of Bragança there has been a great concern about the protection of natural resources, because they are a key factor for the development of many activities, ranging from agriculture to tourism. This is one of the districts with the largest classified area: it has two natural parks, a regional park, a protected area, a geopark and a biosphere reserve, recognized by UNESCO. And populations are increasingly aware of the importance of the environment for their quality of life. On the other hand, in these territories, we also bear in mind what mining activity is, with its positive and negative points. Mines are not a taboo, nor is there any implication just because they are. We can even look at the Moncorvo Tower iron mines that are being rehabilitated after 40 years of abandonment. There is social acceptance, there is support from the municipality, there is investment, there is job creation and there are economic benefits, of course. What the transmountans do not like is to be deceived, as in the case of the sale of the EDP (Energy of Portugal ) dams, in which Mr Minister facilitated — yes, he facilitated — the business without precaution of the fulfilment of all fiscal obligations. [[PSD applause.]] More: recently, DGEG approved the exploration of lithium, tin and other minerals in Bragança district. It is concerned an area of 254 km2, comprising Mirandela, Vinhais and Macedo de Cavaliers, being lithium among the substances sought. We must ensure that these and other projects do not endanger the sustainability of the region. The Northeast Transmontane is a small one that even better exists at natural and environmental level in Portugal. It is a safe value of the present and the future. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the decree we are considering, we want to know that amendments to the law are in favour of safeguarding protected areas. Do you believe that this government may wish to exclude them from the concession areas? Is Geopark Horseland safeguarded? Let us now address the threats that also come from the other side of the border. I am referring to the intention of exploration of volfrámio and tin, with the open-air extraction and washing of inerts in the Spanish locality of Calabor, 4 km from Portugal, near Rio de Onor — one of the seven Portuguese wonders — and the protected area of the Natural Park of Montesinho. Despite the questions we have already asked Mr Minister, we still do not know where this process is. There's a feeling in the region that the government doesn't want to know. Where are the concerns about social cohesion, territorial equity, environmental protection and the quality of life of populations? For PSD there are no minor issues, and therefore we are proposing amendments to the law decree that allow us to protect our territories and our populations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u102	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Pires, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two questions that are raised in this debate. The first is whether or not we want to develop the extractive sector competitively in order to achieve the greatest possible economic return to our country. The second question is whether or not it is possible to achieve this design with well-defined rules, respecting the will of the people and scrupulously meeting the most demanding standards of environmental sustainability on each of the farms. To these two questions the Socialist Party's answer is 'yes, it is possible'. And if there is any doubt that it is possible, the answer is in the diploma that is under discussion today. Despite this, there are still some parties who continue not to want a serious debate about the future of mining activity in Portugal, preferring instead to cast distrust and feed populist discourses around this activity. Some say that the government is preparing to authorize mining in protected areas — false! Others say that the government does not listen to the people — false!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u104	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u105	Others say that the opinions of the authorities should be binding—and they are! Some still say that the government has been signing contracts in a hurry before the next elections — nothing more false!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u106	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u107	Let's start right here, for the nine contracts signed last October. Each year, there is a succession of new contracts for mining activity in Portugal. This was the case in 2019, this was the case in 2020. of these nine contracts signed last month, five correspond to operating licenses that come from exploration and research authorisations given by the PSD government / CDS-PP. The authorisations given by the PSD Government / CDS-PP, which are governed by the previous law, were not to appear binding to the authorities, the way in which the public discussion was conducted was more closed and there was no obligation, for example, of equitable distribution of royalties between the State and the municipalities. The authorizations given by this Government, which are governed by the current law, have had all favourable or favourable opinions conditioned by the authorities which have delivered themselves. And none of the four authorizations for prospecting and research is in protected area. These are some of the major differences that distinguish the PS from the other parties, by finding the right measure to ensure that our territories are valued, that biodiversity is preserved and that the country can withdraw economic profits from its resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are aware of the relevance that these resources can represent to Portugal, of the economic profits that can bring to the state and to the populations, of the value that this activity can add to the national economy, through the possibility, provided for in the law, to impose on this row of the extraction industry the transformation of the mineral into national territory, thus fixing the transformation chain in Portugal and also contributing to the obtaining of the essential raw material for the energy transition. However, the economic dimension must be driven by the transparency of the processes, strengthening public information and participation, while not forgetting the fair distribution of the economic benefits of exploitation between the indigenous communities and the State. Above all, it must ensure compliance with the highest standards of environmental sustainability. Only the harmonious balance between these three dimensions will be able to bring people and their territories more and better well-being, will it be able to attract investment for our country, create highly qualified jobs and contribute to the much-needed decarbonization. The Socialist Party will continue, as always, alongside people, always fighting for better living conditions, without ever jeopardizing environmental balance, landscape and biodiversity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u108	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Serra d’Arga, as you know, is a place of unique environmental and cultural importance in Upper Minho. In fact, changing the stunning landscape, the century-old romance of São João D’ Arga and the « chiripiti» for the new romance to lithium is something that is unthinkable for the populations of Upper Mininho.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u110	It's four new concessions!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u111	I will summarize the populism they speak of by quoting the President of the Chamber of Leather Walls, eminent socialist : « The value of the Serra d’ Arga is much higher than it could come from mining. Environmental preservation is an incalculable value in the future. Whoever has landscape, balance, biodiversity has an invaluable heritage that will be worth much more than many mines». These are statements by the President of the Coura Wall Chamber, delivered on October 23 of this year, at a time when he was accompanied by three more chamber presidents of the Socialist Party of Upper Mining and by the president of the CDS of Ponte de Lima. Therefore, let us call the populists all the autarchs of the High Mint, especially the socialists. Moreover, the law that we are both told today as a weapon of shooting, it is good to remember, already existed when the last PSD/CDS government. And this government, complying with the law, had the concern in 2015 to change. What have you gentlemen done? Instead of regulating within six months, they took six years, allowing everything they accuse us today to happen because of a government that only complies with the law. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, Minister, it's not worth denying. You're the law! Just look at the public pronouncement and the laws referred to. [[PS protests.]] As you know, Minister, no, he is not on the Natura Network, but what he proposes to us is a blanket of flaps for the Serra d’Arga, with several areas. The speaker displayed a map. It seemed like a napperon full of holes, with areas A, B and C, where they want to explore and explore. People are against this, in fact, more than 1000 people were in the last demonstration, which happened eight days ago. In addition, they make a note of the fact that the CIM (intermunicipal community) of Alto Minho intends to classify the remaining landscape of serra d' Arga as a landscape of regional interest. that's what we're doing. It is not by chance that it is because Alto Minho is a place with characteristics of biodiversity, animal species and a number of unique characteristics that, if lost, will constitute an irremediable loss for Alto Minho and for the whole region. Therefore, Mr Minister, what the population of the High Mint even wants to know is whether we are going to have here an authentic PREC (the ongoing revolutionary process) of assaulting all resources, making a shallow table of everything that is taught, good climate practices, good environmental practices, or whether we will march back and go to meet the interests of the High Mint and say that the exploitation and exploration of lithium in the Sierra d’Arga will not happen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u112	Mr. Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, João Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I shall make a very brief statement and then I shall give the floor to Mr Under-Secretary of State and Energy. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, for the Serra d’Arga, the entire plot on the Natura 2000 Network was removed, about 40% of the area on the map she displayed. For Serra d’Arga, and not only, a strategic environmental assessment was made. It is worth reading it and realizing that, of the eight places for which there was a strategic environmental assessment, it is clear that there is one of the places — I let your curiosity go to see what it is — where it seems even that the environmental impacts assessed on this scale are of great magnitude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u114	I'll get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u115	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, what is very likely is that very soon the only concern with lithium in the Sierra d’Arga has to do with the four contracts that the PSD has signed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u116	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Energy, João Galamba, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the so-called "mining decree" and the government is looking at some of the issues raised and the issues raised with some perplexity. The Left Block and the PCP insist that this decree does not value public participation, nor the protection of the environment. I can only conclude one thing, sirs. Members : they have not read the law and, above all, have not read the law comparing it with the laws that existed before. If there is something that this decree-law does is to reinforce, yes, the participation of municipalities in all phases—at the pre-assessment stage, in the exploration and research phase, in the allocation of the concession. That is why, honourable Member, if today a municipality gives a negative opinion to a search and research request, that request is denied. What existed in the previous law? It was indifferent to the position of the municipality. That's one of the differences this law brings. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult to understand why they insist on this idea that it is pure and simply false—and anyone who reads the decree-law will thus conclude it. There is participation of municipalities in all phases, Mr. There had never been a law that gave the municipalities so much power. This is not a matter of opinion, it is a matter of fact, it is in the law, so they read it carefully. Then they raise another issue that we cannot understand, which cannot be granted before an environmental assessment. It is precisely in the allocation and allocation of the concession that the concessionaire is obliged to submit an environmental impact study. What is the objective of the proposals made by the NAP — whose parliamentary group does not currently have any Members present in the Chamber — and the Left Block? It is to ensure that there is no mining operation without a positive or conditional environmental impact declaration. And what is the result of this law, and which was now also the result of the previous PSD law and which has always existed, since there is legislation on environmental impact assessment in Portugal? The purpose that you are. Members say they want to guarantee, and it is already guaranteed. The most perfect example of this is even the Montalegre concession. Lusourrecourses has been granted for two years. Have there ever been any mining in Montalegre? There was no, Mr. Deputies. And Lusourrecurses is at risk of losing the concession exactly because it cannot even present an environmental impact study according to. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the proposal they present, of two, one: or it is redundant, because what they are seeking is already guaranteed in the law, or is absurd, because they intend to make an environmental assessment on a process and a plan of farming that does not yet exist. Thus, it is precisely in accordance with the current law that the environmental impact assessment should be made: the concessionaire presents a farming plan; the farming plan says exactly what the project is, where the project is and what techniques will be used; and there, yes, the environmental impact assessment process begins, which, if negative, ensures that there is no mine, which is the objective intended by VV. Ex. [[BE's protests.]] Mrs. Members, the objective that VV. Ex.as they claim is guaranteed and guaranteed in the law. So we can't understand what's bothering you so much. On the other hand, the Government wrote in the decree that it approved that, where possible, protected areas should be excluded with regard to mining. The only decision that the Government has taken in this matter was precisely this: to exclude the Natura Network. And why do we not write that mining is prohibited on the Natura Network or in protected areas? Because it is in the legislation of the Natura Network, in the legislation of protected areas and in their territorial plans that this prohibition should exist or not. There are natural parks in which regulations say that mining is prohibited. In the National Park of Peneda-Gerês is prohibited. It doesn't have to be this law to say, the Parque regulation already says so. [[Protests by BE and PSD MP Emília Cerqueira.]] Mrs. Members, the Government, in the decision it has taken, has excluded. The Government will not, in a decree on the allocation of rights on geological resources, legislate something which the specific legislation of these matters preferred not to legislate. If you want to ban mines on the Natura Network, change the law on the Natura Network. It would make no sense, as Mr Minister has already said, here we will say that all industry is banned on the Natura Network. Why? Because it depends, it depends on the area.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u118	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u119	There will be areas where they are banned and others where they are not prohibited. And, in those areas where it is not prohibited, the appropriate procedure to determine whether industry x or y should or should not exist in that area is environmental impact assessment. That's where the impacts are measured. A banoutout court would have this extraordinary result: the largest Portuguese mine, the mine that is an international environmental example, referred to everywhere as one of the most sustainable mines in the world, is exactly on the Natura Network. And why? Because an assessment was made and it was concluded that that project in concrete — perhaps, if it were another, it was not approved — gave sufficient guarantees to allow it to be approved. I invite you guys. Ladies and gentlemen to visit — and I am sure that at least the Members will be able to do so. BE Members have never done so, and they should do so — Somincor's mine to see what is a sustainable mining, with guarantees for populations and with the protection of the environment, in the heart of Natura 2000. Does this mean that the government wants to assign exploration and research rights to the Natura 2000 Network? No, not until you've removed these areas from the competition you're trying to promote. On the other hand, we do not understand some PSD positions either. The PSD appears here, that neither « Damascus road », converted to the position of « we do not want to assign rights to protected areas or Natura 2000 Network ». Mrs. Members could at least explain why they supported the allocation of these rights in the past...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u120	I explained it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u121	...and now they seem to be against it. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD — and now the CDS — have allocated these rights of prospecting and research in protected areas in 44 contracts. And, as Mr Minister has said, we are not blaming the PSD for having attributed them; what we are saying is that it is incomprehensible that, after having done so and certainly applauded in this House when that happened, come now « to rip the clothes» and say that when it is a Government of the Socialist Party, it can no longer be. But there are differences, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD — and now the CDS — between the contracts we are now promoting and those you have promoted. The first is that we promoted much less contracts and the second is that we did it under a decree-law that goes, in all areas of this diploma and in all areas that were spoken in the law of 2015 — in fact, this was all omitted in that law — further in valuing the participation of municipalities, much further in the distribution of royalties and much further in the protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u122	Six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u123	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no environmental rule in the field of prospecting and research—not one! The first act of this government, in fact, of this team, when the mines moved to the protection of the Ministry of the Environment, was to safeguard by dispatch much of the provisions which are now being poured into law. And you know what one of them was, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It was to ensure that prospecting and research is also an area that requires the follow-up of the ICNF, APA and all entities that your law excluded and that all the exploration and research contracts that you have assigned have not safeguarded. It's really painful...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u124	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u125	... listen to PSD talking about Argemela's saw! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, have you read the contract that the PSD and the CDS celebrated for Argemela's greenhouse? It is written there, in a taxative manner and in the sight of everyone, the name of the company that in November 2011 acquired the rights of prospecting and research—and it was not now, it was not this government, it was at that date! And you know what this government has done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? He's done the VV contract. Ex. They signed. We respect the rule of law... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ...and we respect signed contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u126	Mr. Secretary of State, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u127	Those who had the right to inspect and search in Argemela's greenhouse had a contract signed by the PSD/CDS government and are scrapped in this contract who has the right to grant. And us, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are limited to compliance. In fact, DGEG has only complied with the contract that you have entered into. Ex. They signed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u128	Mr. Secretary of State, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u129	I really hope so, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, if they ever return to power, also respect the rule of law and contracts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u130	Mr. Secretary of State, at least please respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u131	... because that is what is expected of a democratically elected government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u132	Six years!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u133	It is expected that this Government will respect the law and the contracts signed. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u134	Mr João Moura, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State : In several statements to the social communication, the Minister of the Environment said he did not understand the implication against lithium and that the word 'lithium' became a phrase. At the close of this debate, I will use part of my time to try to explain to the Minister that lithium can and should be a positive element — I hope to help him « see the light at the bottom of the mine». It all begins in the way the government has managed the various cases around the exploitation of geological resources. It is at least a messy management, not to say disastrous. It's kind of a manual that shouldn't be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u137	From the outset, the Government must not assume that the populations are ignorant, that they are opposed to progress and that the national interest in the ecological transition allows greater sacrifice to those who live in the most peripheral territories. It is not to mention as a miracle the chemical properties of lithium, nor to explain its multiple uses, as if it were in a teleshopping program, that the people will accept by hand kissing farms near the territories in which they live. Throughout the country, we have liabilities of mining and environmental holdings yet to be resolved. When Mr Energy State Secretary organizes a conference on green mining and comes to say that "who is against mines, is against life", he cannot expect things to improve. And then there are processes that are conducted in a counterproductive way. These are examples of three cases in which the PSD expressed its concern and which at least smelled the « fox in the capoeira ». This is the case with the Montalegre and Barroso mines, with a perception of favour to companies close to power. This is the case with the concession of the Argemela greenhouse, also assigned without an environmental impact assessment completed. And, finally, it is the case of the Serra d’Arga for the exploration of minerals against the will of the autarchs and the populations of Upper Minho. They are different cases, where the political and technical conduct of the processes was similar, because it managed to put everything against everyone and against the projects concerned. It is not possible to argue that the use of geological resources should respect best environmental practices, in line with the concept of green mining, while it is discretionary to cover mining in protected areas without rules. It is thanks to this kind of political behaviour of the «I want, I can and I command», against all and against all, that people are increasingly relying on decision makers and institutions. I give a recent example: in a full political crisis, in the week when the State Budget was dropped, the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology approved a set of prospecting and exploitation contracts, as well as in addition to those contracts, perpetuating 14, or 9 plus 5, as Mr. Minister wishes. The subscriptions took place on October 28, 2021 and the country was informed by the social communication the following week. And then we had the Minister saying that he was nothing with him and that it was a mere administrative act that had no political decision. The PSD is not against mines, nor is it against mining. The extractive industry is important, gives us essential materials and raw materials, generates jobs and generates wealth through exports, allows the existence of value chains, dynamizes territories and related activities. But we cannot ignore the negative side and environmental risks either. We all have to work to improve the environmental performance of this sector and make it compatible with the protection of natural resources. It is in this context that Decree-Law No. 30 / 2021 of May 7, assumes great importance. As it is, it is a kind of white letter, an instrument that allows us to suspend to democracy, a 'I want, I can and I command' in the good image and likeness of dictatorial regimes. And allow me to use some of the rhetoric of Mr Ascenso Simões, which reminds Eng. José Socrates of those conversations with Commander Hugo Chávez, in which one asked « explains how the laws are violated», to which the other would reply « whenever possible, you can violate them». [[PSD laughter.]] We hope that, during the parliamentary review, we will be able to introduce and introduce amendments, those suggested by the PSD here, in a contribution. Returning to the beginning and the implication that Mr Minister sees in relation to lithium, allow me to give him three political prescriptions that help him overcome the trauma. First, replace propaganda with transparent communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u138	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u139	I'm done now, Mr. President. Secondly, take the energy transition as a process of consultation rather than confrontation between different perspectives. And finally, exchange political power for involvement, arrogance for collaboration and sarcastic irony for respect for communities and this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u140	We turn to the end of the debate. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u141	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Minister had a disappointment, a phrase that somehow made up for a more difficult moment in the debate, when he said, and I quote: "God is protecting us! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, I remembered a song from a Brazilian singer, Chico César — I think Mr. Minister knows — who says more or less this: «God protects me from me and from the evil of good people / from the kindness of the bad person(...) ». I believe that the part of "God protects me from me"-CL will apply directly to Mr. Ascension Simons, because it is only to himself that he has to fear. In fact, it contradicts itself in its argumentary web, even with its own party, because it accuses the Left Block of being a statisticist when a comrade of yours, minutes before, accused the Left Block of bringing forward motions for amendments which were of little scope in the face of the political debate we have had.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u142	What does one thing have to do with the other?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u143	Therefore, the coherence of these interventions was at the door of this Chamber. More: it uses as an argumentary basis for all its 1981 examples — well, in my case, I was two years old — and so surely if Enver Hoxha had served something it would be to change the diapers, because it could have served little more. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u144	And it wasn't bad anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u145	when coming to this debate making this kind of archaeology only proves how the vision about environmental policy that PS here tried to bring is so outdated, at the moment climate change is the attention of the world and of new generations. As far as this particular law is concerned, there are still two verses from Chico César's music that can be applied to Mr.Minister, I have only doubt as to which one of them applies better. In other words, I doubt whether what is involved with this law is "good people's evil" or "bad person's kindness". The Minister said: "Trust us, because our word is of gold. We could have done, even with this law, the permission of mining in a protected area, but we did not. Trust us. And we even guarantee, with this law, that there will be a return to the municipalities of the surrounding area to these mines." Mr Minister, what example has the government given in respect of municipalities of environmental consequences resulting from public choices in their municipalities? I remember a very particular one: in 2020, we were discussing the State Budget for 2021 and « the Carmo and the Trinity fell », because the PS was against a proposal approved in this Assembly of the Republic that said that the business of selling dams in Trás-os-Montes the municipalities of Trás-os-Montes should have a positive impact, a positive return of this business. Well, what did the Minister and the government do? They authorised the business to be held in 2020 so that that the political budget, approved in this Assembly of the Republic, would not apply to that business and thus the EDP would not be obliged to pay those municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u146	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u147	I realized you were doing something like that. Not me!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u148	But the Minister and his government have done even more than that. It's just that we're still waiting for EDP to pay the tax, but it hasn't paid. It is EUR 110 million! Zero tax, Minister! Do people have reason to doubt? Got 'em! They have reason to doubt it! Now they have reason to doubt how this idea is presented, which is a kind of non-economic repair of environmental costs and social costs that a mining operation has, but a payment for favors, and that is what we do not accept. It seems that this is not at the height of structured thinking about what is a mining exploitation. Let us now return to the content of the amendments. The Secretary of State said that the proposals presented by the Left Block, as regards the environmental impact study, of two: either they do not serve what already exists in the law or, then, they are absurd in relation to the normal process of mining. I just don't understand the following: if they are so harmless with what is in the law, why did the government get so angry with these proposals? That's what I don't understand! from the Left Block, we are sure that we are not ashamed of our proposals, because they safeguard the environment and the necessary follow-up that populations should have. Another question: Mr. Minister tells us, Mr. Secretary of State, tells us the PS that this law is innovative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u149	You will not find such an advanced law as this in the rest of Europe!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u150	And they do what? Not as a counterpoint to the international demands of those who defend a clear evolution of environmental law, but as a counterpoint to PSD, as a counterpoint to farms in Africa, as a counterpoint to countries where there is no type of law, no type of environmental concern. Mr Minister, we hoped that after six years in the government the requirement would be greater. At least the one that the Left Block has is bigger than the one that the government now presents. With regard to the involvement of the population, he said — and the Minister always referred well to this subject, unlike the Secretary of State — that the populations may be involved and the municipalities are involved, that when those triggering the mining process is a private one, not the State imposing its will. And we know, even with all the examples he gave of the PSD/CDS government, that it was the state, mostly, that imposed its will against the populations. in this matter and from this point of view, there is no change to what currently exists, because it is not guarded even the will of the municipalities. It is the State which imposes its will.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u151	That's an expropriation of the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u152	But more: just listen to the populations, just listen to the environmental associations, just watch the news to realize that you don't listen to the country. The government does not want to listen to the country, which is a problem. When it is referred to in the law that can listen, we in practice realize that you do not want to listen, and that is what we want to change the law. We also want to change something else in the law, and it is of no lesser importance in this context. Every time we speak in defense of protected areas, we are concerned about the government's response, not only in this debate, but over the six years in which it has been in government, and that is always the same. The government always tells us 'well, but it is possible to have holdings of this level, mines or even prairies, in protected areas, and see the example of SOMINCOR.' Now, Minister, it is exactly the opposite, that is, we were hoping that the government would tell us "with us there will be no new mining farms in protected areas", having a law to say so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u153	That's what we did!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u154	Why? To defend protected areas. It was not to say: « But these are the tools for sorting these protected areas that will protect them themselves ». Don't! What this law says is that it is above these land planning instruments.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u155	Say the opposite! Don't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u156	Since we are talking about things that are harmless or surplus in the law, I add: the reference to protected areas is to say that it can be exceptionally included there a mining exploitation. Thus, we realize that the Government does not intend to let the law, for this government and for the following governments, leave the protected areas even protected. We are going to the practice of the Government: it is not by chance that when we look at the international assessment that is made in our country, we realize that our protected areas are, in their very wide majority, unprotected by a lack of will of a government to protect them. As such, the three amendments which, in fact, are surgical, are certain and that concern fundamental values in this law are those proposed by the Left Block. It is with all quietness, without any kind of arrogance, because I believe that this is how these matters should be discussed with the people, that we have a difficult frame on all sides, which is a mining exploitation... In fact, I grew up in a space they call "minere knife", so I know what this means for the lives of the people I know that populations should be involved in this matter. What we require in this law is so simply that it learns from decades of experience, from the world experience. I am now addressing not the Minister but the benches, to note the availability of the Left Block for, in good time, the period until the end of this legislature, we can make amendments to the law that safeguard these fundamental interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u157	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u158	I'm done, Mr. President. We do not propose to change the world, we do not want to « put Rossio in Betesga », we want to ensure that these fundamental values, such as the involvement of populations, the safeguarding of protected areas and the distance from mining to urban spaces, are safeguarded in the law. I believe that we are in a position, even against the will of the Socialist Party, to have a majority in this House of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u160	Having completed our work today, I welcome you. Members of the Government. Before the end of the session, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u161	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 1520 / XIV / 3. ( CH), 1521 / XIV / 3. a ( CH) and 1522 / XIV/ 3. a ( CH). I would also like to inform you that Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP was present in this session via videoconferencing, because she was in prophylactic isolation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-18.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: the first item is the election of the Ombudsman; the second item is the appeal to the Government No 11 / XIV / 3. the, required by the PSD, on health ; from the third point is the motion for a resolution No 34 / XIV/ 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the International Centre for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz concerning its Headquarters, signed at Lisbon on 29 October 2021 ; the fourth point is resolution No 35 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Services between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, signed in Lisbon on 2 July 2021 ; from the last point are the statutory votes. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 50 minutes.]]
