ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] We will begin our plenary meeting with the reading of a set of information that Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has to give you. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No 103 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and Bills Nos 887 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 888 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 889 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 890 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 1365 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1366 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1367 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 1368 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1369 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1371 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1372 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), down to 11. the Commission, 1373 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1374 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union is coming to an end today. In the parliamentary dimension, 26 were the major events promoted by the Assembly of the Republic and in which Parliaments of the national parliaments of the European Union, candidate countries, parliaments of other regions, such as the African parliaments or the Western Balkans, and the European Parliament, with which we had an intense working relationship. It was events that we promoted under the aegis of the Trio de Presidencies declaration, at parliamentary level, that I signed with my German and Slovenian counterparts, which constituted the compass by which we guided ourselves, from 1 July 2020 and so will be until the end of 2021, in six months of intense activity, strongly conditioned by the pandemic crisis of the COVID-19 and its multiple consequences. It is now a word of thanks to all Members and to all Members. Members and, in particular, Mr President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos, who played a very important role in preparing and monitoring the parliamentary activities of the Portuguese Presidency, which, as you know, went far beyond the initial plan, despite all the difficulties that the pandemic has brought. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These difficulties, however, have not prevented us from fulfilling our mission and honoring the popular mandate. I would also like to convey my deep appreciation to the coordination of the parliamentary dimension and to all the services involved, and it has been many, without which we could not have achieved the results that we have achieved — and that I think they deserve us and the parliamentary institution — by demonstrating how true what the Treaty of Lisbon sets out, when it says that national parliaments are actively contributing to the smooth functioning of the European Union. All and all, thank you very much. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the PS and BE Members.]] We will enter the first item on our agenda, which was required by the CFP, and which consists of the joint debate of Bills Nos 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ) ; 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the right to 25 days of annual holidays ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ) ; 525 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ) ; 825 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter the regime of collective dismissal and dismissal due to job extinction and repeal dismissal due to inadaptation, strengthening the rights of workers ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ) ; 47 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recognizes the right to 25 holidays in the private sector (Tenth sixth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February); 76 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates 35 hours as a normal period of work in the private sector ( sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code ) ; 79 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensuring the right to 25 days of annual holidays (tenth sixth amendment to the Labour Code ) ; 536 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — ensures more leisure time by reducing the maximum limit of the normal working period and the right to 25 working days of holidays in the public and private sectors, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and the tenth amendment to the General Law on Public Works, approved in Annex to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June; 887 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Alter the collective dismissal regime, proceeding to the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 in general; and to the Draft Resolution No 1368 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government negotiate, within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation, the repeal of the presumption of acceptance of collective dismissal due to acceptance of the compensation paid by the employer. The second item on our agenda refers to a possible vote, which is already confirmed, and I therefore ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who take this into account. We will open the debate with Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP has made this agenda in the face of a reality that demonstrates that it is absolutely central and unacceptable to respond to the problems experienced every day by the workers of our country. These are problems that have not been dragged for many years by successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, but have gained significant expression and dimension with the impact of the epidemic and with the use, which is taking place by the patronate, the COVID-19 virus to feed other viruses that fatten in our country: that of exploitation, that of unemployment, that of precariousness. These are also viruses that need to combat and eradicate and therefore the CFP presents a set of proposals to respond to the problems of workers. Unemployment figures continue to express a very worrying situation, with more than 34 000 unemployed in May compared to the previous month. Until May this year, 178 collective redundancies have been launched, reaching more than 1800 workers, to which many thousands of others have been fired with resources to the most various instruments, including job extinction. It is a reality that cannot be ignored, which requires intervention that effectively involves the catadupa of redundancies that have occurred and that are expected to intensify. Today, firing is easier and cheaper and is said by the workers of the Eurest (European Society of Restaurants, Lda. ) , the workers of Altice, the Santander bank, the workers of the restaurants Madureira, the workers of the Refinery of Porto, Cofina or Global Media, among many other examples we could give here of workers who are faced with dismissal and who go to this situation with amputated rights, considering the changes made in labour law. Today, the rules of dismissal due to inadaptation and extinction of the job leave the power in the hands of the patronate to fire whenever and whoever you want. In the termination of the job, it became the employer to choose, with criteria selected by itself, whoever wishes to fire, no longer requiring the placement of the worker in a compatible job, even if it exists in the company. In the dismissal due to inadaptation — this aberration introduced into labour law — became the basis for dismissing the so-called 'productivity' or 'quality' of the work rendered. And, given that it is the employer who assesses the said breakdown of productivity or the quality of the work provided, it is easily perceived that it is a dismissal for subjective reasons and without just cause. Today, whoever is dismissed receives lower values in his compensation for dismissal and whoever wants to challenge the collective dismissal, whoever wants to defend and fight for his job, for his reintegration, must abdicate his compensation, which is his right. This is because the law assumes that compensation is the acceptance of dismissal by the worker. With the initiative that the CFP brings here, the CFP corrects this set of injustices that persist and restores the rights of workers who are faced with dismissals — rights that the present moment confirms are urgent to restore. We limit the criteria for collective dismissal and for dismissal due to job extinction, we revoke dismissal due to inadaptation, we withdraw dismissal whenever there is a compatible job for the placement of workers, we rest the compensation values one month for each year of work, and we must count all working time for the calculation of compensation, and we rest the right to challenge dismissal, even when the worker accepts compensation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u6	This fight against redundancies is the defense of jobs and workers and it is also the defense of our country's national production. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] This reality joins the reality of precariousness. Precautionary is a plague that reaches hundreds of thousands of workers who spread and contaminate themselves, taking the most diverse forms: false green receipts, long-term contracts, false research scholarships, false stages, employment-insertion contracts, temporary work, outsourcing, digital platforms, part-time work, hourly work, advances. They all have as their common element the insecurity of working bonds associated with the limitation of fundamental rights. They are workers who respond to permanent needs and who have precarious links. This is the reality that we need to put an end to, not to find an acceptable level of precariousness, because there is no acceptable level of precariousness. Precautionary is to combat and eradicate, not to legitimize or to manage its increase or decrease. The CFP proposal takes strong steps to combat precariousness: we extend the characteristics relevant to the presumption of the work contract; we reduce the situations in which it is possible to use the term contract; we repeal the extension of the experimental period for 180 days in the case of workers seeking the first job and long-term unemployed; we repeal the very short-term special contracts; and we also increase the period in which the employer is prevented from making new admissions, through term or temporary contracts for the same functions performed. This is because we reject and combat this intention, which is intended to impose, to replace workers with rights by workers without rights, because this is also the intention of capital and patronage and of all the parties that contribute to encouraging precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u8	To the reality of exploitation and intense working rhythms that reaches hundreds of thousands of workers in our country, to the increasingly evident need for conditions to articulate professional life with personal and family life, the answer that is required is the reduction of working time for 35 hours for all workers and the right to 25 days as a minimum holiday time. This is also what we propose here, since the importance of the principle of dignity in the relationship of work depends to a large extent on the social and economic value of work, ensuring decent living conditions for workers. This is because the right to a holiday and paid holiday — the conquest of April — is a constitutional right. Because it is urgent to ensure decent hours for workers, decent times and time to live, time to live beyond work, time to be in family, time for culture, time for sport, time for leisure. Because civilizational advances in technical and scientific fields allow today to produce more, with better quality, greater efficiency and less time, and these advances must be at the service of the best working and living conditions for the workers who produce the wealth of our country. The reduction of working hours for 35 hours is of the fullest justice, more than 100 years after the struggle that has originated and is deeply linked to 1. May, International Workers' Day, "eight hours of work, eight hours of rest, eight hours for the family and for leisure". Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members are of no use to worry about the time the children spend on daycare or at school, if they do not want to move on to the working hours of working parents and working mothers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, workers in our country are not condemned to live with low wages, with precarious links, nor must they be subject to irregular schedules, long working hours, hour banks or intense work rhythms. The proposals presented by the CFP address specific problems of concern to workers. The proposals we bring here improve working and living conditions, because the recognition and appreciation of workers' rights are absolutely central to a path of progress and social justice. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u11	The Bureau records two entries for clarifications, including by Mr João Paulo Pedrosa, the PS Parliamentary Group, and Mrs Helga Correia, the PSD. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u12	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u13	All right. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, you have the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Diana Ferreira, the Socialist Party warmly welcomes the set of initiatives presented by the CFP and it is not difficult to recognise that the CFP is increasingly ahead of the reflection on the future of work and the rights of workers, and it is therefore important to signal this. The Socialist Party also reflects on these issues, but has a history of action to improve the lives and conditions of workers. It is a very significant history in conciliation, increasing licenses, sharing, combating precariousness, increasing the national minimum wage. Therefore, we follow the reflection and also have a practice, much of it, accompanied by the Communist Party Portuguese. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa told me a few days ago, with his kindness and pedagogy, that the Socialist Party had even changed since 25 April. He changed the Socialist Party and also changed the Communist Party. And I think we've both changed for the better, just look at the achievements we've made over the past few years and also in the Budget for 2021. I think we've both changed for the better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The influence and reflection of the CFP are also important for the set of measures which, for example, the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) has in matters which the honourable Member mentioned, in particular the Agenda for Worthy Work, with EUR 230 million for the so-called 'permanent employment' and EUR 140 million for the Youth Impulse, which has to do with the increase in wages, as the honourable Member also referred to in the rostrum. Just see that the data of the INE (National Institute of Statistics ), published this week, come to say that, for every 100 jobs created, 162 are with no term contract, which means that these 100 others who were on-term work and become with no term contract. Therefore, we have a very significant gain here, but it is also important to say that we cannot tie workers to a fixed position because, today, with the money of the PRR, with vocational training, we have conditions so that many young people, many workers, can change jobs and value their income with better wages and better working conditions and that is fundamental. However, Mrs Deputies, we cannot be mistaken because today the right political will come here to say the following: « The Socialist Party welcomes the proposals of the CFP, but does not always follow them fully ». And why? Because the goal of the political right is to bring back the hard-won rights of workers in Portugal. I would therefore like to ask you whether or not you think the fight to do in the coming days should be around this agenda for decent work, young people's impulse and fighting right-wing invetives against workers' rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u15	For clarifications, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. My first word in this debate is regrettably. We regret that some political parties, as is the case with the Portuguese Communist Party, preach one thing and actually do another. Members and leaders of the Communist Party say that they defend all workers and their rights, but today in a debate in which amendments to the Labour Code are discussed, they refuse to discuss strengthening the labour protection of non-maintenance informal caregivers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the agenda of the CFP, which laid down on the agenda a number of initiatives aimed at several amendments to the Labour Code, is more than an exercise of the political demagogy of the Communist Party to turn the Socialist Party to the wall, at a time when the State Budget is approaching 2022. This is no more than an exercise for the State budget of 2022, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, it is proof that the PCP makes the Socialist Party, while remaining to know whether the PS will, or not, pass with distinction in this exercise of its partner of management. Then you'll see! The boyfriend is starting today, as you could see from Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa's intervention. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party believes that labour legislation must be at the service of companies, their workers, the economy, economic growth and not at the service of tactical games by some parties in this Parliament. The Social Democratic Party proposed the draft resolution No. 1167 / XIV / 2. the, which recommends to the Government the strengthening of the labour protection of informal caregivers, because we believe it to be a matter of greater relevance and that it lacks speed on the part of the political power. In 2019, Parliament approved the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, in which it was established that the Government had 120 days to identify measures to strengthen the labour protection of non-principal caregivers, workers who exercise their professional activity and, at the same time, are non-principal caregivers. It has spent more than a year and the Government has not yet identified them, despite the Secretary of State, even today, told us within the Commission that the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations has made an exploratory survey identifying areas which, under Portuguese legislation, do not comply with the directive. That's not enough, Mr. Secretary of State. The informal caregivers deserve more and need the government to define how it was established and what are the labour-strengthening measures. Mr. Secretary of State, the Government cannot, consecutively, be leaving the caregivers behind. It is time for us to really know what the measures are and how they reach the ground where they are needed. The CFP has already wanted to make a veto of the secretariat in this Parliament and thus prevent the discussion of the draft resolution of the Social Democratic Party. The CFP did not want to vote on this project in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u17	Oh, Mrs. Member... [[At the moment, PCP deputy Diana Ferreira opens her head in a negative signal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u18	What we asked for, Mrs Member — and it is not worth being shaking your head! — it was for the Government to identify the measures, which should have been done, and for them to reach where they are most accurate. My question is very specific: is this how the CFP and the honourable Member, who is a spokesperson for the CFP, defend the rights of workers and, in this case, of informal caregivers? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u19	Mrs Diana Ferreira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u20	Mr President, I thank Mrs Helga Correia and Mr João Paulo Pedrosa for the questions that have raised me. Mrs Helga Correia, the CFP is very pleased to discuss proposals for informal caregivers in the field of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u21	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u22	In fact, so much so that we have even presented legislative initiatives that guarantee a set of labour rights for those in informal care.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u24	Perhaps it would be good for the honourable Member to review the PSD's position on these matters in relation to the specific proposals of the CFP in the context of enlargement, even of the working rights of informal caregivers, and the CFP also made a significant contribution to solutions that were found in informal caregivers. Mrs Helga Correia, we are very pleased and hope that the PSD will make an agenda on the issue of informal caregivers because of course we will participate in this same discussion. What we do not understand, however, and what seems to us to be deeply demagogic, is, in the debate of a set of matters on labour rights, Mrs Deputy used the question of informal caregivers as an excuse to try to escape the concrete responsibilities that the PSD has in her hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u25	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u26	... the increase in the precariousness that it left in our country, the cuts it made in wages, the cuts in social benefits. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs Deputy, the Portuguese workers and people do not forget what they suffered from the PSD and CDS government or from the degradation of living conditions they had during that period.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u27	We've got the country out of bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u28	Mrs Deputy, these were the responsibilities that the PSD and the CDS should assume.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u29	There you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u30	They are using informal caregivers, their needs and the answers that need to be given to informal caregivers and dependent people in order not to respond and to escape the responsibilities they have in the degradation of the living conditions of workers. The serious situation we have today also resulted from the action of the right and the worsening of the social and labour situation that the PSD and the CDS did when they were in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u31	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u32	Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, there are some questions that would be of interest to clarify. The effective link, Mr Deputy, does not prevent any worker from looking for any other job that satisfies him more. What an effective bond and an effective fight against precariousness prevents a boss from dismissing a worker only because he wants it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u33	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u34	This is, acting without any criteria and choosing that worker on which, indeed, he intends to perform dismissal. Therefore, Mr President, it is not the effective bond that binds a worker or prevents him from taking any professional course throughout his life. What the effective bond means is that the boss does not have absolute power to fire the workers and it is absolutely unsuited to stop the dismissals that are taking place. Mr President, what do you have to say to the Altice workers who are faced with collective dismissal? What do you have to say to the workers of the canteens of Eurest, with whom the PCP was on Monday, who made a protest in port because they continue to be the target of a collective dismissal? There is a worker who has a job, who is being replaced by a temporary worker and who is being fired in this collective dismissal. What does the PS have to say to thousands of workers right now who have dismissal as a solution? Sir, that is not the way. The way is to stop dismissals and, above all, limit the criteria that allow layoffs, but also ensure that those who are in this situation today are no less protected than they were 10 years ago. This step, the PS has not yet decided to take. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u35	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for a speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week has been marked by a wide spectrum of redundancies, with 700 workers threatened at Santander, 300 at Altice — some, in fact, have already started to be contacted by the company — about 1000 at BCP, a few hundred in canteens at the restaurant, in several medium-sized enterprises. We are facing a new wave of announced redundancies, as happened in October 2020, with more than 1,000 workers covered by collective redundancies. If nothing changes, this wave of layoffs will be faced with the rules that the troika and the right left in the Labour Code, those rules that facilitated and embarrassed the layoffs, which cut the value of the compensations to half. But, if we are like this today, it is because the PS has refused to move in the rules that the troika introduced into labor law. We have made this debate in the discussion of the State budget for this year and that was the position of the Government, that it does not move in the inheritance of the troika. After that, we returned to this debate in the Assembly of the Republic and the Socialist Party's position was that it did not move in the inheritance of the troika. We are again making this debate and, say it, not even to resume the 20 days of compensation that the PS itself has at times defended, not even for that, the government has been available. To date, the policy of the PS and the Government, reinforced by the recent statements by Mário Centeno to condition the debate of the State budget, is that the inheritance of the troika is untouchable. It's not! Mr. Secretary of State Miguel Cabrita, there will be no policy on the left for work and for the response to the crisis without moving into the inheritance of the troika in the Labour Code, with regard to dismissals and not only. We are talking about redundancies, but, as far as redundancies are concerned, the law still maintains such presumption of acceptance of dismissal from the moment the employer transfers to the worker the compensation that is his right. This rule, which in good time a Government of Antony Guterres has revoked, but that the right has resumed and that the PS has maintained until today, is a pure standard of humiliation of the worker. It is a norm that aims to take advantage of the situation of fragility, the state of need of the worker when he receives the letter of dismissal, to buy his silence, to prevent him from exercising the right to challenge an unlawful dismissal, which is his right, by law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u38	It must be remembered that the worker who receives compensation will always be entitled to such compensation. If he wins the trial, the action in court, he will be entitled to more than that compensation, but even if he loses and the company is right, that compensation is always from the worker. Why is there a need to keep this piece of shit in the law of work? [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u39	Why does the PS maintain affection for a norm whose sole purpose is to numb workers? in this debate, however, there are other issues that are under discussion: the fight against precariousness, the priority to be given to combating old forms of precariousness, including the abuse in term contracts, temporary work, the use of very short-term or experimental contracts, but also the response to new gross forms of precariousness, which are made through the 'dislaboration' of labour relations or algorithmic management of the provision of work. It is not the regulation of the platforms that are under discussion today, but we will also have to go to this debate and, for that reason, the Left Block has already presented a preliminary draft. The reduction of working hours is also under discussion, making it public and private within 35 hours per week. In fact, today, in practice, we work more than the daily limit that has been acclaimed over 100 years ago by the International Labour Organization. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members, does this make any sense? Oh, my God! We work longer hours, because we do extra hours that should not be done or that are not paid, because there is an informal extension of working hours, with abuse in telework, abuse through new technologies — platform workers do not even have employment contracts and work 12, 13, 14 hours a day, far beyond legal limits! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, reducing working hours is a civilizational achievement to have more time to live, so that we can reconcile our professional life with our personal and family life, but it is also a job creation measure. Yes, this is the time when we should move forward with this measure of reducing working hours. This reduction, in fact, is moving forward in a number of countries. He's advancing in Japan, but we don't need to go that far. France has 35 hours a week. There is a report by the French Senate which makes a highly positive balance sheet of 35 hours, whether on conciliation or on net job creation. The Spanish Government is currently launching a pilot project to reduce working hours. That is what we should also be doing in Portugal. On this point, the PS and the Government have basically had systematic refusals and hesitations. But more than that: the Socialist Party and the Government have not only refused the proposals to reduce working hours as they have also fought against left-wing proposals to cancel the extension of working hours which the troika has entered into in the labour law. Increasing working hours is done in many ways, it is not only through weekly hours, the number of hours we work per week or month, it is also by reducing holidays. What was the reduction of holidays for the 22 days if not an increase, without any compensation, of working hours? Why will the Government and the Socialist Party insist on also maintaining this inheritance of the troika in the labour law? Returning the holiday days that have been stolen from the workers on the right and the troika is a matter of justice and respect for the rest of the workers and is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u40	There it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u41	Once again, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, therefore, there is no lack of proposals from the left in this debate on layoffs, combating precariousness, regulating working hours and working days. Once again, it remains to be known what the Socialist Party will do and with whom it wants to vote these proposals again today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u42	Mr President, the Bureau shall record an application for clarification from Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, this discussion is not new in this House, some of the projects presented had already been presented in the previous Parliament and we had the opportunity to discuss this subject widely. We are debating these issues again today, without dogmas, without prejudice, but with the same conviction and firmness with which we discussed them three years ago. The fight against poverty and social inequalities have been and are at the centre of the political struggle for the Socialist Party and for the whole left, not only because they impose a limit on the economic and social development of our country, but mainly because they represent a scourge to the most basic of a social state. Therefore, the Socialist Party is present in this discussion as it has been in recent years, in the design and implementation of policies that have allowed our country to achieve the lowest levels of inequality ever and one of the lowest unemployment rates in recent decades. In the previous legislation, the Government fulfilled its commitment to regain confidence in the economy, to create quality employment, to reduce precariousness, to raise wage value. He placed the person and the worker at the center of the labor relationship. We increased the minimum wage, returned the holidays that had been eliminated, reviewed the basis for calculating the contributions paid by workers to green receipts, approved various legislation to combat precariousness and also approved a system of employment quotas for disabled people. In 1996, the historical descent of the 44 hours per week to the 40 hours per week was obtained by a Government of the Socialist Party. It was also with the Socialist Party that the generality of public administration workers had access to 35 hours of weekly work. And it was again in a Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the other left-wing parties, that this right was returned to the workers. As much as they try to whiten the past and as much as they strive to create a parallel reality all this was possible, it was only achieved, because the policies and measures are of the Socialist Party and the Government is of the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have no lack of political will, we do not excuse the debate, we do not deny the confrontation. We defend the quality of life of workers, as we have demonstrated over the years, and we also do not accept the ultimate vision of those who defend that « being with us is being with the workers and being against us is being against the workers»,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u44	... because the workers know and recognize everything the Socialist Party Government has done for them, they do not allow themselves to be influenced by polarized speeches. What they're interested in is concrete, reality, and that's what they know, because that's what you're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts. Today's debate is a meaningful debate, a debate to be held here in Parliament, but also with the social partners. We know that the work is never done, but we cannot devalue everything we have already achieved in recent years and that we will surely still achieve. That is why, Mr President, the question I leave you with is whether the Left Block does not consider the measures taken in the fight against precariousness and income recovery policies in the last five years, subscribed by the entire left parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u45	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u46	Mr President, Member of the Socialist Party, we remember these proposals well. While recalling that there were no proposals from the Government of the Socialist Party in 2015, they were impossible to remove the kingdom from the impossible by the relationship of forces and by the agreements concluded between the Socialist Party and the Left Block. We are well aware of the increase in minimum wage and the course that has been defined, the cancellation of cuts in public administration, the replacement of holidays. The problem, Mrs. Member, is that the Socialist Party has since resolved to build a wall between itself and the left, between the government and the left, and that wall is the inheritance of the troika in labor laws. The question we ask the Socialist Party is whether it is available for that wall to cease to exist. That is, if it is available to end the inheritance of the troika in the labour laws and, therefore, to end those rules that the right has placed in the labour law and which today mean easier and cheaper layoffs; they mean days of vacation that have ceased to exist and therefore more hours of work, without remuneration, without compensation for that; they mean the cut that has been in the remuneration of the extra work; they mean this degradation, those cuts that remain in the labour law today and that make us have fewer tools to deal with the impacts of the crisis that we are now living. Madam Member, allow me to answer that question, because that is really the question you are asking in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u47	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Work is back today, and well, the debate, and the Greens, taking advantage of the agenda of the CFP, and without prejudice to the importance that we attach to the other proposals that are also under discussion, bring to discussion a legislative initiative with the aim of devoting the right to 25 working days of annual holidays. Indeed, it is not necessary to make a great effort to recognize that labour legislation has, over time, been the subject of changes, causing an increase in imbalance in labour relations, but always at the expense of those who work. It was the pretext of competitiveness, growth, employment, crisis or even external taxation that all served to weaken and detach the worker's position in the labour relationship. We have, therefore, seen for several years, but with particular emphasis in the period of the last PSD Government and the CDS-PP, an offensive against whom it works, marked by the sharp degradation of living conditions of most Portuguese families. However, this unfair and immoral emphasis on exploitation was the result of options that were materialized through these changes to the labour code and which resulted in the devaluation of work and even an unprecedented attack on the fundamental rights of those who work. We are talking, for example, about changes in order to weaken and block collective bargaining, about the disappearance of our legal system of the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker, or about the changes that have reduced the number of working days. And, as expected, these options have only been encouraging layoffs, making work cheaper, putting people to work more and earning less and, above all, further weakening the worker's position in the employment relationship. Today, over these years, what we can conclude is that these changes have caused dramatic social situations and have not solved any of the problems of the country and the workers, on the contrary, have made them worse. Thus, and despite the need to reverse other measures in labour terms, the Greens believe that it is time to bring more justice to labour relations, with the right to 25 working days of annual holidays. It should be recalled that, when we talk about holidays, we speak of an undeniable right, which should not be conditioned to certain criteria such as attendance and effectiveness of service or, even, the seniority of the worker, and which aims to provide physical and psychological rest and ensure conditions of participation and articulation of the professional, family and staff of those who work. As we know, physically and psychologically restored workers end up having more favorable conditions to work better. thus, any measure aimed at degrading labour relations is harmful to the worker and to the performance of the work itself in conditions that they want to be worthy. In fact, several studies indicate that higher periods of leisure and rest are associated with increased productivity at work, not the opposite. From the perspective of the Greens, workers must be entitled to a period of 25 working days of annual holidays, without being subject to conditions or dependent on factors such as attendance. It is therefore time to start reversing the measures taken by the PSD/CDS-PP government also in the workplace, which were very harmful to workers, who thus began to work more and receive less. This is because four holidays were eliminated from a sitting place, three days of vacation were reduced and the compensatory rest was eliminated, among many other measures that resulted in the devaluation and fragility of workers and which accentuated the degradation of their living conditions. In addition, with the amendments introduced in 2012, the scheme for the increase of the holiday period was abolished on the basis of attendance, which had also been established in 2003 and which remained in the Labour Code after the revision in 2009, passing the holiday period to have a duration of 22 working days, in accordance with Article 238. the Labour Code. The false arguments raised to justify these changes were those of the custom — increasing productivity, competitiveness and fighting the deficit — but the reality shows us that they have resulted in redundancies, increasing precariousness, loss of income, more working time and less time for the family. In the face of these changes to the Labour Code, it is necessary to create conditions so that workers can have more time available for rest and for family activities until, today, it is increasingly difficult to reconcile professional life with family life due to the demands that are imposed. In this way, for the Greens Ecological Party, ensuring a period of 25 working days of annual vacation to all workers is a moral imperative and a measure of the most basic justice. We are talking about a period of vacation that should not be subordinated to the criterion of attendance, and must be expressly enshrined in labour laws, as a form of valuing work and workers, which is essential for real development, but also for the justice and social progress of our country. For all that is said, The Greens, through this bill, propose the consecration of 25 working days a year for all workers and will certainly follow all the legislative initiatives that we are also discussing today and that, in our view, come in some way or other, bring more justice to work relations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u49	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group, through Mr Nelson Silva, to present the draft laws and resolutions and to intervene in the debate. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u50	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A true tsunami of collective redundancies is now under way in our country. Here are some examples: in the Eurest, there were 262 workers in Sumol, there were 80 workers in the Global Media, 81 workers in Ryanair, there were 23 workers in the Altice, there could be 300 workers in the Millenium BCP, there could be 1000 workers in the TAP (Air Transport of Portugal ), with the sponsorship of the Government and the Minister of Infrastructure, there are over 200 workers at risk. In addition to having been dismissed through collective dismissal, all these workers have in common the fact that, because of an unfair standard of the Labour Code, they have to abdicate their dismissal compensation in order to be able to challenge their collective dismissal. In other words, each and every one of these workers will be placed before a perverse dilemma between remaining with compensation, which will guarantee them and their families the minimum of subsistence in the context of unemployment, and renounce their rights, or then assert their rights and put themselves in an even more fragile social situation than the one which unemployment has already brought them. But what does it mean to require the worker to deliver the full amount of compensation, when we know that the value of this compensation will always be the minimum that the worker will be entitled to receive due to dismissal, regardless of the success of the challenge? What does it mean to deprive the worker of this value, when we know that a process of challenge of dismissal in Portugal is a true way of crucifixing? I recall that the workers of BBVA ( Bank Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria ), fired in 2014, had to wait six years for the outcome of their process and that the workers of the New Bank, fired in October 2016, spent almost five years yet had not even had the first trial hearing. Doctrine is overwhelming with this norm. It considers that, by limiting the right to effective judicial protection of workers, this rule is unfortunate, unfair, inconsistent or even unconstitutional. Many academics claim that this solution in nothing benefits the employer or contributes to social pacification, having a neutral economic effect, since the challenge of dismissal by the worker does not generate additional drawbacks to those who are associated with the judicial action itself. In view of this, and trying to test the social sensitivity of this Parliament, the NAP proposes not only the repeal of this unfair standard, which is limited to the right of workers to access the courts, but, so that this is not an obstacle to the consecration of this advance, we also propose that the Government put this revocation into discussion in the context of social consultation in order to achieve the consensus of the two sides of the labour relationship, which is so precious by the PS and the PSD. Let us wait to see if they will follow the NAP on these proposals. Today, however, the NAP also brings the real debate measures, which aim to promote greater reconciliation of work with leisure and family life. Today, those who so much like to talk about the need for such measures have the opportunity to adopt two very simple measures. On the one hand, we want to put an end to injustice between public and private workers and ensure that the 35 hours per week, as a maximum limit of the normal working time, are also a reality for workers in the private sector and not a privilege for the public sector. On the other hand, we want to guarantee 25 working days of vacation in the public and in the private, since the holidays aim to provide the worker with physical and psychological recovery and to ensure greater availability, integration into family life and greater social and cultural participation. Reducing the hourly load and ensuring more holidays for workers, without loss of pay, is giving more time for leisure and family life, bringing more tranquility to the worker and consequently greater productivity. It is to combat the logic of ‘being always connected’ and to ensure more physical and mental health for workers. It is to combat gender inequalities, since, by leaving more time free, it allows a more equal distribution of domestic work. And, of course, we cannot underestimate the potential for reducing polluting emissions, which may be associated with the least need for house-to-work/work-to-house pendulum displacements, due to the reduction in working time and the increase in vacation days. But we know that the problem of PS and the right is not the advantages, but the supposed disadvantages. Are these disadvantages real or pure fiction? Let's go to the facts: Portugal is one of the six countries of the European Union with less productivity, only being better than Bulgaria, Greece and Latvia, at the same time being one of the nine countries of the European Union where it works more hours. That is, contrary to what the PS and the right tell us, the high hourly burdens are not synonymous with greater productivity or economic competitiveness. Moreover, the facts tell us precisely the opposite and demonstrate, on a scientific basis, that reducing the workload of workers means increasing productivity and increasing employment. This was the case in Portugal, when in 1996 the working time was reduced to 40 hours per week, 5 % of net employment was created only in one year. Thus, in France, by reducing working hours to 35 hours, it was able to create 2 million jobs in four years, increased productivity and ensured more dynamism in social consultation, and in this country it was found that this measure, compared to other public policies, is the cheapest way to achieve an increase in economic competitiveness. The suspicion Microsoft applied a four-day workweek in Japan and says it has increased productivity by 40 %. We should look seriously and without ideological prejudices to these data, whose results do not allow for another interpretation other than that that the reduction of working hours, without penalising wages, is the most effective and cheaper way to increase employment, while increasing the competitiveness and dynamism of our economy. Today's debate is on social justice. It is about whether we want to move forward to social-sensitive labour legislation that is able to respond to the challenges and problems of the 21st century, or whether we want to continue to promote inequalities between the public sector and the private sector and maintain in the private sector a working time equal to 25 years ago and to have Byzantine rules that only want to eliminate the rights of workers in a fragile situation. The choice is to stand still in an archaic past or move forward into the future. The NAP, as always, chooses the second option, we will see how much longer the PS and the right will take, too, to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u51	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group and Mr Pedro Roque has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The CFP understood to schedule a set of draft laws relating to labour matters, to which others of the EB, the ENP and the NAP followed, by means of drag, in a set of 10 diplomas that deal with matters such as the reduction of the maximum limit, for all workers, from 35 hours of work and the right to 25 days of annual holidays, among other topics. We do not question the legitimacy of the CFP and the other parties to propose legislative amendments in this area nor do we have such an opportunity. However, what seems to be at stake—and the CFP does not even try to conceal—is its ultimate motivation. She was, in fact, adjournedurbi et orbi by her parliamentary leader, following the recent parliamentary days of this party, and I quote: "There are four initiatives for political stability. Four initiatives are aimed directly at solving the problems of workers and the people and political stability is achieved only when there is a policy corresponding to the needs of workers and the people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u53	He never spoke so well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u54	« The more the policy executed with the hopes of the workers and the people, the more political stability there is. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] I hope I made a good quote. In other words, the CFP depends on the political stability of the adoption of a set of amendments to the Labour Code. Labour legislation is thus used as a lever for approval of the next year's State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u55	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u56	The Government and the Socialist Party — it is worth remembering! — they do not have an absolute majority in this Parliament. However, having not wanted or known, at the beginning of the legislature, to ensure the necessary and sufficient written agreements to ensure political stability, it is still in terms of budgetary approvals, and has even withdrawn the support it has provided in the last legislature, by the Left Block, has lived in the taste of the wind and the agenda of the CFP, which seeks to sell increasingly valuable support in the year of autarchic elections, in which it is traditional a strong rivalry in the dispute with the PS by the leadership of some of the municipal chambers of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that labour legislation is too important to be used in an instrumental way. The Labour Code is the result of a tripartite effort of consultation and understanding, and is therefore balanced and stable. Above all, it is an instrument which reconciles apparently divergent interests between work and capital and which is at the service of economic development, which can ensure the sustainability of social and labour developments. We therefore continue today, as always, to believe that it should be the partners and the Government, at the head of CPCS ( Standing Committee on Social Consultation ) and in the first instance, to generate the necessary consensus in any changes in the field of labour. Only then will Parliament exercise its legislative function, with the guiding principle of respect for the balance obtained in a tripartite manner. Moreover, the principle of balance and stability are fundamental to the legislative work building. Only in this way can workers, entrepreneurs, lawyers or investors be guaranteed mutual trust. Still, it is still curious what we have checked on the part of other parties. By the PCP or the Left Block, we admit that, ideologically coherently, we have projects that profoundly debalance the Labour Code. No wonder! They are parties that have a conflicting view of labour relations and thus devalue and abhor even the convergences achieved in social consultation. However, on the part of the PS, an established instinct for political survival and the maintenance of power can be decoupled, even if it has to abdicate from being a party respecting social consultation, the irreplaceable role of the partners and the agreements obtained, which are based on our labour law. Thus, the immediate question is to go, PS and Government, to walk in the opposite direction as necessary by the national economy. That is, is the PS available to support bills that, because of their unilaterality, have adulterated the balances of the Labour Code, only in the name of tacticsism and maintenance in power? More assertively, will this be the exchange currency to guarantee the PCP's favourable vote in the approval of the State budget for 2022? [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social consultation is the institutional stage for reconciling interests between companies and workers. The obligation of the Government, as one of the vertices of tripartism and therefore also of the party that supports it, is the promotion of the same dialogue and not that of the possible feasibility of diplomas which, covering apparent good intentions, do not do more than debalance Portuguese labour law, making it more rigid, dissuasing investment and job creation and thus ultimately acting against the workers' own interests. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u57	Mr Fernando José of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by welcoming the initiative of the CFP, as well as the BE, the NAP and the ENP for the projects presented, claiming that the concerns reflected are also concerns that unite us in a common objective and on which we have come to follow a path of consensus, in the densification of workers' rights. The fight against job insecurity, the promotion of the Agenda for Dignified Work and the promotion of collective bargaining are themes that are reflected at every moment in government measures and priorities in the political action of the Socialist Party. Therefore, we will enable the Bill No. 525 / XIV / 2. a, of the CFP, concerning the fight against work precariousness and the strengthening of workers' rights. We therefore follow a path that has been pursued here by the Government, the Socialist Party and the whole left, an assertive course and which, even in an unprecedented crisis context, continues to be pursued without blind cuts, without the withdrawal of rights and with the fight against job insecurity — I reaffirm — as the central objective of government action. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Indeed, in the fight against this crisis, we have not taken a step back in the achievements achieved in recent years, we have not taken a step back in the restoration of rights. It must therefore be reaffirmed that, contrary to the previous crisis, the responses now found by the Government to combat the effects of this new and difficult phase of our lives have not been incorporated into austerity measures. These are therefore brands that clearly differentiate the Government of the Socialist Party from the right-wing Government PSD / CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This right-wing government was in addition to the demands of the troika and did not spare any effort in the context of crisis to sacrifice even more Portuguese workers, withdraw rights and attack collective bargaining, through the veto of the issuance of extension gates, leaving the workers unprotected and the discovery of conventional standards, in a collective contract which, in that period, suffered one of the greatest cuts of memory. In contrast, this Government has implemented measures that reflect better conditions and greater stability for Portuguese workers, measures that are the recognition that « the word given is an honest word ». And that, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Members, for example: the progressive increase in national minimum wage; the extraordinary updating of pensions; the full replacement of pay and holiday and Christmas allowances; the replacement of 35 hours of weekly work; the defrosting of career progression in public administration; the replacement of holidays; the increase of the compulsory enjoyment by the father of a parental leave from 15 to 20 working days; the reduction of the maximum duration of contracts for a certain term from three to two years and of contracts for an uncertain term from six to four years; the elimination of the individual hour bank; the period of 35 working days as a limit for the publication of the extension gates and as a form of dynamisation of collective bargaining. And now: the amendment of the regulation on the transmission of more protection to workers, more powers to the Act (Working Conditions Authority) and better coordination with the DGERT ( Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ) in the monitoring of the procedural and substantive regularity of collective dismissal processes; a brake on the expiry of collective agreements, to avoid abusive complaints in the current context; and the strengthening of the ACT inspection frameworks, which for the first time complied with the ratios required by the ILO (International Labour Organization), i.e. 493 labour inspectors. in this road to combat precariousness, the PS refused to fire public officials, having ended with the special requalification and mobility regime, where the PSD/CDS-PP government had placed thousands of workers who allegedly would not be needed in the state. Once again, in the reverse way, thousands of workers were integrated with whom they recognized themselves as inadequate links and which constituted permanent needs of the services. On the contrary, the public school, the social state and the National Health Service were strengthened. Here we come, we are sure that it will be possible to continue to do even more and better, it will be possible to correct and do different at every moment, but we cannot erase the enormous effort done so far and that, even in the current context of an unprecedented crisis, it has had in the Government's measures continuity in the redoubled effort in support of workers and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: In this process of strengthening labour rights, it should also be noted that in 2019, and following an agreement reached with the majority of the social partners, amendments to the Labour Code were adopted in order to combat precariousness and promote collective bargaining. However, by not closing the door to all discussions aimed at combating job insecurity and strengthening labour rights, we believe that, in terms of collective dismissal, for example, other issues should be considered in the framework of the legal regime and require articulated reflection. With the certainty of the path taken and that more will be achieved, we must look to the future that is coming. The new digital platforms, our professions, the telework regime, the promotion of reconciliation between family and professional life and the valorisation of collective bargaining are challenges that are there and for which it will be necessary to find the proper answers, these responses — there — that will have to be framed and properly articulated and that cannot be poured into packages of avulsive measures. It is in this sense that the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which has already been the target of public consultation, constitutes the framework for a thoughtful reflection on the changes to the legislation in force which are becoming necessary. On the other hand, collective bargaining will have to find in these responses a way of renewing itself, which will, for example, be given the wide scope in the regulation of telework and other matters which only to collective bargaining can be found, through dialogue and consensus in the necessary conventional clause. As we are sure that we will still have a way to go and respond pragmatically, in the search for the necessary consensus, to the challenges of the future, where more than 50 % of the professions are expected to undergo significant changes and that workers will require a specific qualification or deep requalification, we reaffirm our commitment to the Dignified Work Agenda and to the densification of the regulation of the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u59	In order to clarify Mr Fernando José, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u60	Mr President, Mr Fernando José, considering what you have done, I would like to ask you a few very specific questions. He said that the PS did not take a step back in the replacement of rights — I think this was the expression he used in his intervention. But, Mr President, over the past few years there have been many steps in the replacement of workers' labour rights which the PS did not wish to give, from the very outset, in the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker and in the elimination of the expiry of collective bargaining. This, to mention also matters with which you said in your speech, have concerns, although, in practice, apparently, the concern of the Government and the PS with regard to collective bargaining is only for two years. I mean, the problem exists, but you just want to solve it for two years. Mr President, there have been even steps taken by the PS which have been tremendously harmful to workers, in particular with regard to the extension of the experimental period to 180 days. And, in the last year and a half, many of these workers were also fired in the experimental period, without any kind of social protection. Therefore, with regard to the steps that the PS has to take in relation to labour rights, there is still a long way to go, although the PS could already begin today, in particular with the approval of the CFP bills under discussion. The honourable Member said he was going to make the legislative initiative on precariousness viable. But, Mr President, it is important to know what is the response the PS has to give to the workers of the Eureka, the Santander Bank and the Altice, who are being targeted for collective dismissal and who are going to a situation of dismissal with cuts in compensation values, cuts that come from the time of the PSD government and the CDS and that the PS does not want to eliminate, according to previous legislation. What is the PS's response to these workers? Will the PS continue to deny fair dismissal compensation to these workers? That's what this is about, Mr. Deputies. It is to deny workers their right to fair compensation, in particular by not altering the legislation that does not even give them the possibility of being able to receive compensation and be able to challenge their dismissal. These are two rights that workers have at the same time and that the PS, in the position it is taking, is denying hundreds of thousands of workers in our country. at this moment, Mr, it is this reality that we are talking about and, behind these workers, there are families, there are children and there are young people. These are realities that we cannot ignore. It was therefore important to know whether the PS will continue to deny this right to workers. It was also important to know whether it would continue to deny the replacement of 25 holiday days. We remember that the 25 days of vacation have already been a right also enshrined in the Labour Code, with limitations, it is true that it met a set of criteria. But it was important here to know, I repeat, whether the PS will also deny the replacement of that same right, considering the intervention now made by the honourable Member. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u61	In reply, Mr Fernando José of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u62	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, we have to appreciate the steps that have been taken so far. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u63	We must value these steps and, once and for all, leave the protest policy behind. We must walk forward, and surely we will continue to walk together. With regard to collective dismissal, there will be much more to be done, and articulated, than just discussing the issue of compensation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u64	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We are once again discussing a wide range of initiatives — a dozen — on changes to labour legislation, in particular the Labour Code. If I wanted to analyze one by one, there would be very little time left to analyze each of them. in this sense, the CDS will make a more general approach. Much of these initiatives do not bring us anything new, are only representations of representations that the leftmost parties have made over the last few years, notably with the theme of the reduction to 35 hours of the normal working period in the private sector, or of the recognition of the right to 25 days of annual holidays...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u66	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the room. We must respect the speakers. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, much of these initiatives are nothing new, and only representations have been made by the parties to the left over the past few years, in particular on the theme of the reduction of the normal working period to 35 hours in the private sector, the right to 25 days of annual holidays, changes to the collective dismissal regime and dismissal due to job extinction and, moreover, the revocation of dismissal due to non-adaptation. Mr President, it has been a constant, whenever these initiatives are presented in Parliament, to weave numerous criticisms of the work reforms carried out by the PSD/CDS coalition government. Well, let's go to the facts and demystify the reverses. Mrs. Members, back to the year 2012. When the PSD/CDS government carried out a job reform, it was heard of everything in this House : « This is a work package which has nothing to do with competitiveness, productivity or combating deficit or debt, but which has everything to do with layoffs and unemployment», said Francisco Lopes of the CFP ; « This government wants to unlock the door to the dismissal of millions of workers», said Francisco Lopes of the CFP ; «What the government is doing with this proposal is only stimulating dismissal», said José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes; « What will happen, as in the past, is the increase in unemployment," said Jorge Machado of the CFP ; « Creation of employment with such proposals, Minister? Oh, my God! Don't! However, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the following years have not only given no reason to these disgraceful groups, as to international bodies and — no doubt! — the former Minister Vieira da Silva acknowledged the positive effect of the reforms carried out in 2013. The OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) recognized the work reforms undertaken between 2011 and 2015, considering that « the Portuguese employment protection legislation reforms are among the most important implemented by OECD countries in recent years. Do not keep on seeking. ” But, if these findings are relevant, it is more important to understand and analyze the numbers of its implementation in the labour market, in particular those in the Green Paper of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, which has as foreword Mr Vieira da Silva. Starting with the evolution of the employment market, the Green Paper confirmed what the CDS has been systematically saying, that much is reflected by the work changes of the PSD / CDS government. Let's go to numbers: the employed population began to decline cyclically in 2008, when we had about 5149 million in the second quarter, and which dropped to 4355 million in the first quarter of 2013. From this quarter, the cycle and the employed population began to grow consistently. As far as unemployment is concerned, we have found that the Green Paper has also seen a positive change since the first quarter of 2013, in which it is beginning to fall. Having said that, it is clear that the reforms that the left parties still criticise were essential for us to begin to reverse the cycle of reducing employment and increasing unemployment in 2013. But on the left, Mr. Members, do not learn, or do not want to learn, and resubmit these initiatives, ignoring the involvement that is inherent in the labour market. If we do not ignore, as a fundamental principle of worker law, the principle of worker protection, we do not ignore the importance of social dialogue between employers and workers for healthy labour market experience. This dialogue is not only important and indispensable within companies, but also at the centre of social consultation, which is the forum where workers and employers are represented. It is in this body that the conditions for the evolution of labour legislation are best created. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, subjects such as those which are being discussed today, which are related to working hours, the right to leave or dismissal, should and should, firstly, have to be discussed in the context of social consultation. It was essential that this debate should begin with representatives of workers and employers. The CDS values and believes in social consultation. The major advances made in labour law have mostly occurred because there was a serious debate and an agreement between representatives of workers and employers. The CDS does not fear the capacity of dialogue or agreement between the social partners. On the contrary, we think that it is essential and essential, so that any change in terms of labour legislation can be achieved through social consultation. If the left is afraid or suspicious, that's something you should have changed already, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the world has changed as well. We therefore reaffirm that these matters should always be preceded by debate and social agreement. If, in normal times, this debate was indispensable, then in pandemic times, much more would be needed. Are the parties proposing these amendments to the labour laws not aware of the uncertainty in which we all find ourselves? Currently, we still do not know the impacts of the current pandemic on the labour market. We have not yet been able to know what effect, in terms of maintaining or creating jobs, or raising unemployment. For the CDS, it is very irresponsible to be changing these laws, without knowing, first, what is the impact of the current crisis. If we adopted much of these amendments here, we would probably be contributing even more to increasing unemployment and economic and social instability. It would be very irresponsible for us to do so, particularly at this time. The CDS posture is, and will always be, the same. Reforms such as these, which alter days of holidays, working hours and work contract termination schemes should always be preceded by a serious debate at the heart of social dialogue and, if possible, a broad consensus and social agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u69	To change these laws when we are in the midst of a pandemic crisis, in the midst of a social crisis, in the midst of an economic crisis, with unknown effects, is not only irresponsible, but also very dangerous. The CDS will vote against all these proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u70	It's the government's turn to intervene. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrite, which I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today a series of diplomas, from different proponents, on questions relating to labour matters are under discussion. Firstly, the Government welcomes the legislative agenda of the CFP and also welcomes all the proposers, taking the view of these proposals, above all, as an assessment of the issues relating to employment and work by the political forces and by the proposers. It is an appreciation of which, without prejudice to natural differences which may exist in the assessment of each of the proposals in particular, the Government shares. In fact, the priority for labour and employment issues, not only about job creation, but also about its quality, is deeply reflected in the programmatic matrix and in the work of the previous government and the current government. This has been evidenced by the consistent growth policy of the minimum wage since 2015, the reorientation of active employment policies, the fight against precariousness and the promotion of collective bargaining. These were, and continue to be, teachers of the government's strategy of political action. It was years of sustained evolution, employment growth and job quality, improving the overallity of labour market indicators up to the pandemic, employment growth, decreasing precariousness and wage increases, a framework of confidence, stability and predictability, but also of significant changes and improvements. Some of these changes and improvements occurred through parliamentary initiatives, such as accountability of subcontracting chains, improvement and agility of special work contract recognition action, or parental leave scheme in 2019, and others from government initiatives, such as the extended set of changes to labour laws in 2019, with a specific focus on combating precariousness and on defending and promoting collective bargaining. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no different in this Parliament and it is no different even in a pandemic. As is known, the Portuguese economy and society have gone through significant shocks. We have lived a decade marked by two crises of great magnitude: the first one has extended until the middle of the decade and has involved a prolonged period of external assistance; the present one is a pandemic crisis, sudden, unpredictable and with unique features. In fact, the pandemic has caused a profound and immediate shock on the economy, businesses and employment, a profound shock that only public support has allowed during this year and almost half of it to numb. However, during the pandemic, the Government has also taken measures to protect employment and to extend the social protection of many categories of workers. The Government does not cease to increase the minimum wage by continuing its commitment in this area, and it does not cease to take measures to defend collective bargaining. But in this decade marked by crises, we also witness profound changes in the economy, society and work. We are experiencing an acceleration of changes in global markets, of the impacts of automation, of energy and climate transition, and also of digital transition, with translation into new forms of work and the deepening of already visible pressures. Moreover, the pandemic has also promoted and exposed these changes, particularly as regards new forms of work. That is why the framework we live in is a convergence framework for the acceleration of various changes and a context of very particular difficulty, induced by the pandemic. It is a framework in which the pressure on employment, which stems from the pandemic crisis, is combined with the expansion of new forms of work and new economic and labour realities in a general context of accelerating change. That is why the situation we have today, and that we will have in the next decade, is a different picture from the reality that we have before us, a framework that poses new and unswerving challenges to public policies and regulation of the labour market, challenges and changes that often also involve old challenges and old inequalities. That is why we need to focus on responding to the difficulties of the pandemic and on the imbalances it has emphasized, but also on responding to the profound changes that are taking place. We need to focus on a work agenda that is dignified, coherent, transversal, capable of responding to new realities, while at the same time correcting trends and imbalances that they can accentuate, in particular at this time of crisis, and serious crises, as we have experienced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we should look at employment, work and labour issues. We need to build a new agenda not only for the present, but also for the future of working relationships, focused on promoting decent work, its different dimensions, oriented to respond to the difficulties and challenges we face today. We need to build an agenda that responds not only to new labour issues, but also to old issues, that new realities and changes also question, such as precariousness, or undeclared work, to meet the challenges of change and the future of work and to ensure that the work of the future is a work with dignity for all. It is in this framework that we need to have an integrated view of the agenda of decent work and its promotion. This is also one of the most structural and main conclusions and guidelines of the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which is, as you know, in the final stages of drawing up and incorporating contributions, after an in-depth debate in social dialogue and a period of public discussion. This promotion of decent work is precisely the first of the recommendations in the Green Paper. We must promote this agenda in its different dimensions, in combating precariousness and in combating undeclared work, and in responding to new forms of work, such as platform work. The Green Paper clearly identifies several areas, not only this one, and dimensions of promoting the quality of employment and labour relations, not focusing solely on the so-called « new challenges », both those induced by technological advances and digitalisation, and those of climate transition. On the contrary, it identifies areas in which we need to act in these areas and also relevant issues to promote the quality of employment and labour relations, in this context of profound change. These are examples of improving the instruments of combating precariousness where it is justified, better regulation in this area of temporary work and the deepening and hardening of the fight against undeclared work, perhaps the most serious form of precariousness. It is also in this context that the subject of precariousness has gained expression and equity within the pandemic, justifying an in-depth debate around these matters. I am also referring to the issues relating to technological change, work on platforms, the use of artificial intelligence, algorithms and so many other matters contained in the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which invite us all to an open and plural debate. It is this integrated view of responding to the challenges of the present and the future of the labour market, to the new framework created by the difficulties of the pandemic, to the economic and social evolution that we see taking place every day, on behalf of decent work, that the Government is committed to building, in a spirit of dialogue and work together with the different political forces and, of course, also with the social partners and dialogue, a cross-cutting and integrated agenda for promoting decent work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u72	Mr. Secretary of State Miguel Cabrita, the Bureau records the registration of six Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u73	Mr President, I shall reply together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u74	You then have the floor to make a first request for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u75	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, there is a concern that the CFP has maintained throughout several interventions, in view of the moment we are currently living, that it has to do with the issue of redundancies. And contrary to what has been said, even by the PS Parliamentary Group, the issue of values due to redundancy workers is not a matter of mere importance in the lives of workers because it is not indifferent to receiving, as it is received today, 12-18 days of the value to be received by dismissal, or actually receiving, the whole month, as it should be the fair compensation to workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u76	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u77	As it is not indifferent to work 15 or 20 years in a company and to have, as you have today, a maximum of 12 years to receive the credits you are entitled to or to receive all the time and every year worked at the service of that company. The question of the values that are due to workers is not a minor issue in the matter of dismissal, as it is not a minor issue that the worker can challenge dismissal and also be able to receive compensation, compensation to which he is entitled.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u79	We therefore insist on the issue of redundancies and the rights of workers in redundancies, not only for what is happening now, but for the future situation, which can be aggravated, because, Mr Secretary of State, there is a reality that we cannot ignore, which is the possible worsening of the social situation, up to the end of the period in which a group of companies resorted to the layoff — and in which they are unable to lay off — and which, by the end of that period, may proceed to several redundancies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u80	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u81	What was important to know is what the government wants to face this very concrete reality with a real risk of increasing redundancies in our country and, consequently, increasing unemployment. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u82	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u83	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it was important to know what is the proposal that the Government has in fact, in particular, for the field of work, which the Government has to propose to the workers who are currently threatened by the wave of redundancies that is already under way. Is the Government's proposal to maintain the right-wing rules for redundancies? Is the Troika still being cut in redundancies and the law of the workers that prevents them from contesting illegal dismissals? Is that what the government proposes? Does the Government propose that the right cuts be maintained in labour law, with regard to overtime or to the court on vacation days? What proposals does the government have on this? These are the proposals we are discussing today. What dialogue does the Government want to keep with the left on these central issues for the response to the crisis — labour laws, work organisation regime, regulation of work? Is it to maintain the wall that the government has erected around defending the inheritance of the troika in labour law? Or, on the contrary, is the government available to break down that wall and, therefore, to withdraw the inheritance of the troika from the labour law and thus to change these cuts in dismissal, this fearless law on dismissal and to revoke cuts on vacation or overtime? What does the government have to say about these matters? What does the government have to say about reducing working hours or what does the government have to say about combating precariousness, in particular about the need for work contracts with workers from the platforms, which are now completely out of any framework? We know what was the government's response in the past: it was to make a « Uber law », in accordance with the interests of multinationals and impose an intermediary to prohibit any contract of work between the worker and the platform, which was the law that the government approved in 2018 with the PSD and the CDS. We ask whether the Government has changed its position on this matter and whether there will be binding contracts with the workers of the platforms. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u84	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Carla Barros, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we are now facing a debate that has not brought us any news. The Left Block, the PCP and the Government try to test that always dating, which happens months before the State Budget and, in this case, four months before the State Budget for 2022 — the Left Block and the PCP ideologically always consistent with what they ask, but unfortunately the country does not support. And it does not support — because the period we live in is a particular period — neither those smaller things that apparently the Left Block and the CFP may want to introduce. These are hard times, in which the government must indeed have more judgment than ever. Unfortunately, the government always gives this « kit », nor does that « kit » involve increased and heavy charges for the State budget. Even if that 'coin' implies commitments for future generations, even if that 'coin' does not mean giving rights and better conditions to all workers and only some, the Government always gives 'coin' to the Left Block and the CFP on behalf of its political survival. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u86	I thought that the Secretary of State was keeping his intervention in order to clarify, after all, what we are discussing in this debate and what is the Government's position on these 10 initiatives by parliamentary minorities. It was necessary for the Government to have the courage to come here to Parliament — even above all, it stood to the end and was very attentive to the debate — to say what is in question here, because then the sense of vote will probably be what we all have all guessed. But you had no courage, Mr. Secretary of State, to say what is at stake here! What is at stake is that these less working hours, more holidays — we all know, and the country — would add more burdens to businesses, would add more costs to businesses. And companies are at a stage of economic recovery of the pandemic. In fact, we still live in uncertain pandemic numbers. The June issues of economic life themselves create some uncertainties for us. And now comes the Left Block and the PCP say they want to suffocate more companies? Oh, my God! More layoffs, more job destruction, more unemployment! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must have judgment; there needs to be judgment and courage on the part of the government to say this, clearly, to the Left Block and to the CFP. We can't go this way! in this regard, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u87	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u88	Mr President, if I may, I would extend my speech, as has been permitted by the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u89	Mrs Deputy, you have been allowed as you have been permitted, but requests for clarification have a two-minute intervention time. The Bureau is tolerant, but this is not an intervention, it is a request for clarification, so I would like to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u90	Mr President, I will then continue my speech at the next stage. Thank you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u91	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Alexandra Moura of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, when the political agenda deals with decent work and the Green Paper on the Future of Work is discussed, we cannot fail to bring to this debate some data on the Public Administration. We are debating the need to strengthen the ability to provide better working conditions for workers, including the means necessary for workers with special needs. We also discuss the need to deepen the investment agenda in the digitisation of public services and administration and to improve the connection and integration of services. But in this debate, we cannot, in any way, exaggerate everything that has been done in the past six years, measures that we know have brought significant improvements to the majority of public administration workers: the reduction of weekly working hours to 35 hours, repossessing the previously created injustice, including inequality between central public administration and local public administration; the defrosting of careers; the increase in the minimum wage with due consequences on the adaptation of the table; the end of wage cuts and the guarantee of annual wage updates; growth in more than 67 000 jobs since 2015, among so many other measures! [[P.S.'s applause.]] To talk about wages is to talk about work and talk about job maintenance. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember and point out that in the midst of this crisis this government, the PS government, did not operate like others: there were no cuts. There were no cuts of wages and we maintained the regularization of precariousness through PREVPAP(Special Regularization Program of the precarious links in Public Administration ), a program of which we are very proud. Mrs Carla Barros, referring to the rights of workers, refers to the restitution of workers' rights as a « kit » or « kit» is a good demonstration of what the PSD thinks about work and the rights which were returned from the left during the previous term. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having said this, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to take advantage of your presence to ask you—and to reflect with us— about the measures that the Government has been implementing and that effectively guarantee the valorization of workers, their incomes, social protection, or even of the benefits of accidents and occupational diseases in the Public Administration and that they ensure that it is effectively capable of responding to the needs of citizens and families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u93	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have recorded the intention expressed by the Socialist Party to enable the Bill No. 525 / XIV / 2. the PCP, in what it means for the life of much of our population and workers; what it means as a brake for the repeated use of term or temporary contract, when clearly these are not the functions to be performed; what it means about the reduction of the experimental period and the limitation of impunity that reigns in the real law of the jungle in which labor relations have become. And we want to see if this really happens from conversation to action or if they are just beautiful words. But that is why, because of the intention expressed here, the CFP wants to raise two questions to the Government. Firstly, I would like to ask whether, in order to combat precariousness, to implement these or other measures, there will indeed be a strengthening of the means of inspection. What role will the government and the ACT play in this? It is that, today, no laws, no matter what they are, are applied many times and there is indeed a more than cross-sectional escape to labour law. It does not reassure us that measures which then do not have any implementation and where there are no mechanisms to monitor them and to implement them. Secondly — and in conclusion — I would like to ask what guarantees the Government can give when the State is the first to set an example and it is also the first to use the provision of services to ensure such fundamental aspects as canteens, cleaning, security. PREVPAP is made to solutions, and new workers are already being created in a precarious situation to the COVID-19 response cycle, which are now seeing their contracts to be completed and dispensed. In view of this, what assurances does the government ultimately give in response to those who live in precarious conditions? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u95	You have the floor, for one last request for clarification, Mrs. Germana Rocha, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, there is no doubt that one of the best contributions to the social elevator is the creation of employment and the promotion of working conditions, both fundamental for the creation of wealth, for the development of the economy and the country. in this context, the labour issue, through the adoption of fair, balanced and responsible measures, is a strategic and crucial issue for the follow-up of this same development so necessary at a moment of deep economic and social crisis in which the pandemic has shown the already existing weaknesses and in which the weak availability of resources, in the face of the breakdown of income, has made more than 400 000 poor in Portugal. The government brings many beautiful words, promises and more promises, but in particular "a hand full of nothing". It is certainly not possible to promote the resumption that the country so precise when the labour issue is seen as the currency of exchange for the approval of the State budgets, as if a kind of auction were concerned. On the eve of the beginning of the negotiations of the next State Budget, Antonio Costa acces to the left parties with the hypothetical revision of labour legislation, at the same time that calls the land the former Minister of Finance and current Governor of Banco de Portugal, to warn that stability in the legislation for the resumption of the economy, and the former Minister Vieira da Silva, to say that, after all, it is necessary to move into labour legislation. in this theatre, which is not new, staged by the government and the parties of the left, it is no longer curious that it is this same left to recognize its own incompetence in combating precariousness in the six years of the reign of management that has made six State budgets available, now showing a piece, already spent, to take care of its political-party support. When the country's progress is intended, it is not governed by the solovancs, without direction and without strategy and with a very high tax burden that suffocates the lives of Portuguese people daily, a government that fatens the state machine as never to serve its customers and without effect on the quality of the services provided to the population. It is certainly not these policies that employers, workers and Portuguese people need. They need, first, conditions that allow the full realization of the work, through serious measures rather than mere figures of illusionism. That is why it is more than time for the government to tell the Portuguese truth, to tell what comes in terms of work and if, after all, you will follow Mário Centeno, Vieira da Silva or your left-wing comrades, in the name of their political survival and power by power! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u97	To reply, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u98	Mr President, I thank the Members and Members for the questions they have raised, on which I will make very quick notes. Starting with the requests to clarify Members Carla Barros and Germana Rocha, of the PSD, which I very much appreciate, I must say that I did not detect exactly questions, but rather the expression of a position, which is perhaps a known position, that the PSD has had — the coherence is praised! — over the course of these years, but which also allows all those who are in this Chamber and outside it to know exactly what they have in relation to the PSD in relation to labour rights and the quality of employment. That is, they have absolutely nothing or, in the words of Mrs Rocha, with « a hand full of nothing ». And they don't even try to deceive people. So from this point of view, I wanted to welcome the crystal clearness of the position that the PSD had here. This is because, in fact, over the years when there has been significant progress not only in job creation but also in improving the quality of employment, improving all indicators, progress and recovery of collective bargaining, in the advancement of rights here in Parliament, and also in action by the Government, the State and the Public Administration, in fact, the PSD has always held a position contrary to these progress, and when it abstained it was countering, because we are shielded from social agreements. With regard to the question posed by Mr Soeiro, in relation to the supplementary work, I would like to remind you that this was precisely one of the subjects which in 2019 was reflected in the most favourable treatment principle in the Labour Code, following the amendments we promoted to labour law. It will not perhaps be the amendment that the Left Block would defend, but it was an amendment to allow, in the case of collective bargaining, there could be negotiating margin, ensuring that it does not go beyond the limits that exist in the law in any collective employment contract. With regard to the fight against precariousness, which you have asked a number of questions, I would like to say that, in this particular respect, the Government does not abdicate the scrolls it has. We may not have a consistent position on several matters which were adopted here in 2019, but the fact is that today we have a set of amendments and innovations in labour laws that have made it possible to significantly improve the labour market situation in this regard, particularly with regard to the legal limits of the use of term contracts, which are, as you know, at least two years old, when they became six years old in the Troika period.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u99	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u100	It was three years ago, we are in two years, with much more demanding new renewal rules, which I know you know. With regard to the elimination of some of the possibilities for recourse to end-term contracts, there was still recently a ruling by the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of this matter. I also know that we do not agree on the substance of the questions, but it was still an amendment that we introduced and I wanted to reiterate. When we talk about temporary work, I refer to the introduction, for the first time, of a maximum number of renewals of the temporary employment contract, since, within the limit, people could be in daily contracts for two years. at this time, there is a maximum duration of the temporary employment contract similar to that of the term contract, a maximum of six renewals—it was the first time that, in Portuguese law, there were renewals that were introduced—or access to the rights of collective bargaining of temporary workers from the first day of the contract of use, of the temporary contract in a given company.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u101	What about the troika?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u102	I believe that these are advances that, as I say, with all respect for the differences that I know we have in some of these matters, or perhaps not in these matters, but in other related matters, will recognize that they have been important to many workers. I could mention more examples, but what I wanted to say in any case is that, saying this, and underlining these advances and their importance, I have no doubt that there is work to be done in combating precariousness. In fact, the 2019 law itself provided an assessment of its impacts and effects, as is typical of many laws, and I believe that in this case it makes particular sense that it is so. Of course, the time of law approval in 2019, after a year of parliamentary debate, ended up for reasons that no one could foresee, because it is not particularly favourable to an impact assessment, since from the beginning of 2020, we know a pandemic – which no one could foresee or, of course, the government – which, as I said recently, we have tried to combat and mitigate, fight for its health effects and fight and mitigate in its economic and social impacts. I have no doubt — and I also take advantage of the reply to Mrs Alma Rivera — that there is much work to be done in the field of precariousness, in different dimensions of this fight: in improving the regulation of temporary work, in the greatest requirement for companies and their practices, in improving the access of workers to temporary work figures and other rights. in the same way, in the fight against undeclared work, I believe that this pandemic also exposed that there are still categories of workers which are insufficiently framed in our economic, social and labour systems. Even with the support given during the pandemic and which were designed in many cases specifically to reach these people, because they had no other framework mechanism, I think that this undeclared reality of work—which, in many cases, is truly underground economy— has to be fought by all means. It is absolutely intolerable and truly a matter of human rights. Labour rights are always human rights, social rights, but in this case we are talking about human rights, and that is what the government is looking at. in this sense, moreover, on the question of supplementary work, I would also like to mention another aspect which Mr Soeiro stressed, which is the question of overtime which is not paid. This is unacceptable, so we must be able to work towards finding mechanisms — if we can find them — to ensure that, regardless of the discussion about the value of extraordinary work, we can improve our instruments so as to ensure that we have less undeclared work, or underdeclared work, or, more recently, as I said, completely clandestine work, which we are deeply committed to. In response also to Mr Soeiro, with regard to the issue of work on platforms, the Government has already expressed its position. The Green Paper on the Future of Work, which is a document which, as you know, has a scientific coordination and a mechanism of presentation and work a little wider than strictly a proposal from the Government, is very clear on this matter, and the Government endorses the whole position proposed in it. This position is intended to conceivate a presumption of labour, i.e. a presumption of the existence of a contract of work for workers on platforms. Even when this presumption does not occur, our perspective is that there is a necessary extension of access to rights by workers in situations where there is insufficient regulation or in matters in which it exists but which is not yet sufficient for us to have an effective advance of working conditions, of access to labour rights, of social protection of work on platforms, and there is, as you said, a specific legislation relating to TVDE (individual and paid transport of passengers on uncharacterised vehicles from an electronic platform) — to simplify the 'Uber Law' — applicable to other operators, as you have pointed out, which is an own legislation, which has been built and which has created a legal framework. I must say that I have a slightly different view of Mr Deputies' view because I understand that, despite the imperfections that the law may have, it was a very important step forward at the time it was built, since it allowed to create a predictable, clear and regulatory framework for labour relations in this sector, and it is in the process of revision of that law that this specific reality could possibly be treated. As regards presumption, the way in which we build it and the framework of different subsectors and different platforms—now, it is worth saying that they are very different from one another, since there are very different types of platforms, with different characteristics at work or up to the level of qualification, remuneration, their geographical framework—is a matter for which we are available to work. I cannot guarantee that we will agree on everything, but we are willing to work on it. Finally, in reply to Mrs Ferreira, I would like to say that Mrs Ferreira said that the issue of redundancies compensation is not just a matter. I answer to you, with all honesty and with all frontality, that, in fact, in our perspective, I believe there is no question of anything but when we talk about layoffs. All issues surrounding the issue of dismissals are extremely sensitive and are subjects of the greatest importance, which have to be seen in a global balance that we need to build. Now — and it is a parenthesis for other references — on the 'tsunami' of collective redundancies and the enlargement and growth of the collective redundancies mentioned here, I mean that we need to look at employment data and even at the data of collective redundancies. There was a very significant increase in unemployment right at the first time in the pandemic, but from there there was a tendency to stabilize and even decrease over these months of 2021, of course very subject to the evolution of the pandemic itself and to the issues of the confinement or defination of economic activity, as is normal. But I would also like to point out that if we were asked, one year ago, to the Members here and to me, whether the pandemic was going to take all this time and said that at the end of this time we would have a low unemployment rate of 10ths above what we had in March 2020, we would say that this would not be possible. But it was. With the public support we have built, with very clear rules and with protective mechanisms of employment. I'm sorry for this deviation. I wanted to return to the answer I was giving to Mrs Diana Ferreira's direct question...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u103	Mr Secretary of State, I ask you to briefly, because the time for answers is not unlimited either.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u104	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I thought you were using global time. I would just like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that Portugal has overall protective legislation on the issue of redundancies for regular workers, for individual dismissal, for collective dismissal. In international comparisons, it is systematically among countries that, in spite of everything, in a difficult situation, more protect workers. Even with regard to non-permanent workers, Portugal is in the most protective half of the OECD countries which are generally compared. So we have to see this balance globally. Secondly, to conclude, by taking up the question of public support, the extraordinary measures to support employment and businesses, which we have put in place for their protection, have obligations to maintain employment. Of course, we will be alert to developments and how we have extended support several times. We have shown that we want to extend them as long as possible and necessary, but we will be very attentive, specifically, to the development of employment numbers and, in particular, to unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u105	The Government informed the Bureau that Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration also wished to intervene in response to requests for clarification. Mr Secretary of State, I will ask you to be brief, because, as I said recently, the regiment figures of questions and answers have time limits, although there is quite broad tolerance on the part of the Bureau. In any case, we do not lose the idea that there is a Rules of Procedure to be complied with. Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration José Couto, has the floor to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Alexandra Moura for her question. On the destruction of the troika wall, which Mr Soeiro was talking about, I would like to reaffirm what he has already said: we have completed the phase-out of the thawing still in 2019 ; we have returned to the normal development of careers, as regards changes in remuneration, progress and changes in level or step ; we have had a set of wage updates either by 2020 or by 2021 ; we have operated, already in 2021, the penosity and insanity allowance, which the Assembly of the Republic has approved in the last State budget; in terms of social protection, we have strengthened the protection of the parenthood of CGA workers ( General Fund of Opinions ), consistent with the general social security regime which had been approved in this Parliament and which has left out the CGA workers, by passing the allowance for child assistance from 65 % to 100 %. With regard to accidents and occupational diseases, we ensured the right to the effective repair of accidents at work to CGA workers, integrated either in EPE (enterprise public entities) or in regulators, who since 2009 had no one to verify their degree of incapacity and therefore did not have access to the compensation to which they were entitled; the right to accumulation of remuneration was restored, a proposal made, moreover, insistently by the PCP and the Block, with the partial permanent disability benefit that had been withdrawn from the workers since 2014, ending again with the difference of treatment between the social security workers and the CGA workers, which allowed to break further this wall. With regard to recruitment matters, we simplified and shortened the competitive procedure for general recruitment; we regulated the competitive procedure, either for nurses or for senior diagnostic technicians, constituting the recruitment reserves of the 1000 superior technicians, and we have already completed two of the tendering procedures; we authorised a significant set of contracts for indefinite time and, finally, other measures for responses to non-permanent needs, particularly in the context of the pandemic and long-term replacement contracts. I would like to say, with regard to Mrs Alma Rivera's question, which I also welcome, that we have already closed all the deliberations of the CABs (the two-party evaluation committees) and have significantly accelerated the PREVPAP process. We are currently at a very final stage of the programme, missing only one approval of the remaining and decreasing processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u107	Mr. Secretary of State, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u108	In conclusion only, I would say that, contrary to what Mrs Alma Rivera said, we have reduced service benefits in the second half of 2020. According to the latest data, there was a decrease of 8, 4 %, if we compare with the same period and throughout the semester, and 20, 3 %, if we compare with the last day of the quarter. Therefore, in terms of the provision of services and the careful use of the services we do, I think we are reasonably talking about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u109	For an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I use this second intervention to give a brief explanation to Mr. Secretary of State. The PSD, more than ask, challenged the government to speak clearly in this debate, challenged the government to come to say what it will defend on behalf of workers and businesses. The PSD has challenged the Government to speak clearly and to have a speech according to the vote it will make at the end of this debate. The government would have to have that ability to clarify the Portuguese and to tell what was coming. You didn't, unfortunately, but the PSD is here to defend. We must remember, in order to defend companies and workers, the fiber, the strength and courage of our workers and our companies in time of pandemic. We must recognise the enormous commitment of national salvation and therefore... [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it's hard to hear! It is necessary to recognize this commitment and this strength, this commitment of national salvation, that workers and companies had in the country in time of pandemic. We all heard, of course, companies and entrepreneurs say: "Well, I don't produce, I don't sell during this period, but I'm looking for insurance for workers", "I see if I don't send workers to unemployment," "I'm seeing if I can secure my company's jobs". What's this? It is a commitment to national salvation, it is a commitment to the country! That is why the government must be at the forefront of this effort, but it has not been. How many times, during this period, has the PSD called for support to reach businesses and families in time and time?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u112	How many times, during this period, has the PSD called for support to be given to more companies, more sectors, partners, self-employed workers, more families and the government has yielded and answered? [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u113	At this time, we must also say that Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration spoke in everything but did not speak in essence, in the recent news which reports that the Ombudsman has come to Parliament and has reported that complaints from citizens and businesses, regarding public services, over the past five years, have increased by more than 60 %. And who has ruled over the last five years? The Government of the Socialist Party! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Secretary of State omitted the essentials and the truth to the Portuguese and, therefore, a lot has to be said. Now, I ask the Government a comprehensive question which I do not know will be answered and challenge it, so for a next debate: after all, what support will it continue to give to businesses in this period of economic recovery? After all, will the government retreat blindly, abandon the support, recreate the support, respond more effectively? What measures will the government take at this new stage of the pandemic and the economic recovery of the country? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u114	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I know well what we have done together in the previous Parliament. There were several matters agreed with the Block that were important and it is only worth noting that they have been harmed and partially neutralized by a surprise agreement which the Government made, one night the following morning, in which it allocated a number of counterparties, in social consultation and employers, to compensate for the measures it had agreed with the left in Parliament, namely the extension of the experimental period or very short-term contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u116	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u117	in this crisis, we saw the effect of these counterparties offered to the bosses. The extension of the experimental period meant that these precarious workers, without protection, were the first victims of dismissals in the first wave of the pandemic. Moreover, they were victims of dismissals without even having access to social protection and therefore, yes, it is worth talking about dismissals. The Government and the Socialist Party did not present a single argument in favour of the rules of troika and right for dismissal. Why does the Socialist Party want to keep the cut for less than half of the redundancies? Why are you preparing today to maintain this right-wing standard in the law of work? Why should the Socialist Party maintain this bite that prevents workers from exercising the rights that the law already confers on them in relation to illegal dismissals? Why? Oh, my God! Why did the Socialist Party and the Government not even express the willingness to resume the position that the Socialist Party had in the past of the 20 days of dismissal compensation for each year of work. What is the reason for such affection for the rules of the right and of the troika as regards dismissals? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Finally, on the Green Paper, we know well and agree with the existence of a presumption of work adapted to work through platforms and algorithms and we have even a concrete proposal on what this presumption of laborability should be. We also know that the confederations have already strongly opposed the idea of a presumption that recognises subordinate work and therefore the work contracts with the platforms, and we know that there is an intense lobby that platforms are making, at European level and also in Portugal, certainly with the government. So I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government — I do not know whether they will still have the opportunity to respond — if, even taking into account the history of previous changes to labour law, the Government will give in to this employer blackmail against the recognition of labour contracts between workers on platforms and platforms, multinationals, digital platform operators, or will be available to pass a law against the opinion of employers' confederations, against the opinions of employers and also multinationals on platforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u118	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u119	If it is available to pass a law against the opinions of the bosses, the Left Block already has a proposal that may well be the basis of that law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u120	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I just wanted to make a very brief reference to an issue which has been brought here, in fact, above all a narrative, in which the PSD and the CDS sought to base their arguments in this debate. In some ways, these parties have sought to tackle the problems of workers and to solve the problems of workers, which the CFP has brought to this discussion. In the design of the PSD and CDS, everything is sold, everything is exchanged and therefore they have sought to address this debate in the view of the CFP seeking to find some currency of exchange or some means of sale of a vote — either in favour or against — in the State budget it was not well understood. I would like to make it very clear that this narrative is disassembly because it is not right, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u122	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u123	We discuss the problems of workers during the State budget, the response they have to have in the State budget, and we will do so in the discussion of the State budget for 2022 as we have done in recent years. Take, for example, that is where we solved the problems of precariousness, with the PREVPAP proposal, which we created in the State Budget for 2017,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u124	Yeah, yeah! With the precariousness to increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u125	...that was far away, Mrs. Carla Barros, and we need you to go even further, exactly! In the State budget, we discuss the problems of workers who need answers. Outside the State budget, we are trying to solve the problems of workers who have to solve outside the State budget, in particular with changes to labour legislation, particularly its burdensome rules, in particular those four issues that we bring today, relating to holidays, working hours, combating precariousness and ensuring, Mrs Carla Barros, from a deadlock to redundancies, which are absolutely essential. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD, as much as they try to twist this reality, can neither hinder nor devalue the problems of workers, nor the solutions that are being proposed today and which will have to be voted on. If you were looking forward to running into the State budget so that you don't have to be confronted with the vote on these initiatives, you got shot out of the culatra, because you're going to have to stand in our initiatives, because we're going to take them to the vote. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u126	Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is the mission of a State to create conditions for the development and full realization of its people and the labour market is the driving force behind the well-being of citizens and their families. So the question we have to ask is: what is the role of the State in this central development axis? The role of the State is to create economic, social and confidence-building conditions to ensure a dynamic and strong employment market. This is what we have seen since 2015 doing, without tibiasses, contributing decisively to the improvement of Portuguese incomes. We know that, to the right, it is difficult to accept this vision, but for us, there is no quality of life without increasing wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no increase in the quality of employment without incentives to hire, there is no fight against precariousness without strengthening collective bargaining, there is no quality labour market without active employment policies, there is no decent work without strengthening the ACT. All this is strange to the right parliament, we know, but it has become a reality for Portuguese workers and companies. But what is even more strange to the right, and also to Mrs. Carla Barros, is the way we are dealing with the crisis. It is that in the last crisis, in the one in which my generation was forced to give up so many and so many dreams, the choice was between more or less cuts... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and now the Portuguese know that the choice is between more or less support. And we regret that, in this debate, the right, and the honourable Member, have not taken advantage of it to recognize what is, indeed, in everyone's view: that the strategy for the reversal of labour rights is not only the only possible way as it is the one that causes the most damage to the economy, businesses, employment and, above all, to Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more employment, more full-time and permanent employment, decent wages, better qualifications and professional progression. In the last Parliament, with the commitment of the left parliament, a package of measures was adopted to strengthen collective bargaining and for the first time to reduce the levels of precariousness in the labour market, we stopped the fight for the reduction of the excessive number of contracts in time, restricting the causes that allow them to be concluded and also their maximum duration ; we limited the use by the State of precarious work; we revoked the individual hourly bank ; we made important steps in active employment policies ; we exponentially reinforced the ACT. But this fight is far from over. We know well who they were—it is always so! — the most affected by the crisis: they are the ones who suffer the most with precariousness. And in order for my generation not to be condemned to live again 'to scratch' and can continue to take dreams out of the drawer, we need to strengthen measures aimed at combating young unemployment. Our country still has high levels of non-permanent recruitment, and that is why it is as necessary as ever to promote social dialogue in strengthening measures to combat young precariousness and to reduce levels of insecurity in the labour market, to deepen the demand for supported professional stages and to continue to strengthen the inspection capacity of the ACT, which yesterday saw an increase in its framework in 70 new inspectors, reaching the highest number of ever-inspectors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the policies of recent years have allowed Portugal to reduce sharply the levels of inequality and that young Portuguese people, in particular, could increase the conditions for the realization of their life projects. We must continue to make our way: to protect the weakest, the youngest, but also our parents and our grandparents. We are all needed to move Portugal forward and, for this mission, we have, above all, those who have always been on the side of social progress, to continue this path of valuing employment and the recovery of the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u128	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on all the draft laws submitted by the PCP, the Left Block, Green Poles and the PAN, on the amendment of the Labour Code in terms of reducing working hours and increasing the number of holidays for workers, leading to the tenth amendment of the Labour Code, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this same subject has already been brought to this Chamber in 2018, and discussed considerably at the same time as the year in which it is being discussed today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that it is through dialogue and social dialogue between the government, employers and workers who are creating the conditions for the Portuguese to have more and better jobs, jobs with higher orders and closer to those that are being practiced in the most advanced countries of the European Union. rather than that which has sometimes been given to understand, wealth is not created by decree. It is the companies that create wealth and it is through them, through the entrepreneurs and workers who work in them, that Portugal can become more competitive, more prosperous and ensure a future of better well-being and more happiness for Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I say by experience: social dialogue is institutionalized dialogue in a market economy, dialogue between government, representatives of workers and businesses, with a view to promoting social justice and balanced economic development. Social consultation is the opposite of systemic antagonism and the structural cleavage of the society that the left to the left of the PS is committed to propaganda to ensure "fuel" for agitation, immoderation and systematic protest. A somewhat competitive, poorly competitive, poorly internationalized economy will make the country poorer, will further remove the wages of Portuguese wages from wages practiced in other European states, will allow more countries to exceed Portugal in the capacity to create wealth, but will leave the left to the left of the most satisfied PS, because they will find more Portuguese outraged with their situation and more willing to vote on the left of the protest and on the left of power that is anti-power. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the Socialist Party? What does the Socialist Party want? The Socialist Party only wants to be where it is, in power. [[PS protests.]] For what? Well, as I said recently, wealth cannot be created by decree, but can be distributed. So the Socialist Party became the champion of distribution, not of wealth, because it does not produce it, but of access to it through well-renumbered positions and positions. [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] Since the day he created the most extensive government in the history of the country, the Socialist Party has left no longer to extend to the rest of the Socialist Party. This way of governing, which, in fact, is not governing, is only maintaining power, it is however appealing to the left to the left of the Socialist Party, because if the Socialist Party program is the Socialist Party to preserve power and distribute places for its own, then the PS has no exit to its right and is hostage to the left of the Socialist Party. The PSD has a vision for the country and wants to make reforms so that Portuguese, as a whole, have more and better jobs and fairer, higher wages. This causes P.S. chills. And why? Because it involves dynamic governance, with a desire to improve the country and not only focus on distribution of places and management of media occurrences. The left to the left of the PS also does not want any of this, because a high and competitive economy removes its base of support or natural dissatisfaction with the degradation of social economic conditions. But the left to the left of the PS does not find support for its radical vision neither in labor associations nor in business associations, which in itself already shows the failure of their realism. It would therefore be for the PS, which is in government, to exchange votes in favour of the Budget for support for its sometimes tacit, sometimes explicit desire to control economic agents. It remains to be seen whether the Socialist Party will give in to this political blackmail and allow social dialogue, a fundamental instance, which the Socialist Party itself helped to create, be ignored and circumvented. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be waiting for the Socialist Party's position, a party that has recently surprised us with changes of conviction, according to the geographic location where it is located. Mr Prime Minister, now in Lisbon, now in Brussels, and now that he wants to sit on three chairs at the same time — in the Government, in Parliament and in opposition to the government itself — making agreements without respect for conciliation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u130	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u131	Mr. President, just one more second. I cannot finish without calling on the Socialist Party to respect social dialogue and collective bargaining and to ensure that all matters relating to labour legislation are discussed with trade union and business confederations at the heart of social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u132	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Lúcia Araújo, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u133	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The adoption of the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, in September 2019, was an important framework for social cohesion and the promotion of the improvement of Portuguese life. The Socialist Party, with the remaining parliamentary left, thus responded to a right of citizenship within the framework of public policies. The right to take care of their own and to be taken care of within a legal framework is a clear sign of progress and the development of society. The measures that are implemented through the articulation of various social security services and entities from various sectors, including health, education and justice, aim to ensure the training of caregivers, the right to rest, either in the integrated continuous care network, or at home, through home support and multidisciplinary support. Social protection measures, including support for informal caregivers, a subsidized scheme for access to the voluntary social security scheme, as well as reconciliation between the provision of care and professional life, in the case of non-principal informal caregivers, are also enshrined. And, despite all the constraints caused by COVID-19, the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, which has been a dynamic process, is already implemented and implemented throughout the country, with the changes introduced to the process of recognition of the informal caregiver. I cannot help but remind the PSD that, despite the concerns expressed in this House by Mrs Helga Correia regarding measures to strengthen and protect workers at the time of truth, the PSD has voted against the work changes over the past five years, not forgetting the criticisms made by the increase in the national minimum wage. [[PSD protests.]] at the end of my speech, I recall that the Statute of the Informal Caregiver should be considered in a set of advances that have been achieved, since the previous legislation, in support of people with disabilities or disabilities and their care, such as social benefits for inclusion or social complement for the elderly, among many other measures of more inclusive charism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u134	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are moving towards the end of this debate and I would first of all like to stress, and at the same time to congratulate, the presence and availability of the Government in this debate. I would like to highlight three points: first, the achievements and advances of the last six years of PS governance, with the promotion of employment, the increase of workers'incomes and the measures of the Agenda for Deserving Work. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, even in the midst of a pandemic crisis, unemployment has always remained in historically low numbers and that will not alienate the measures adopted and implemented by the Government of the Socialist Party,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that he never missed the Portuguese in the most difficult times, especially the crisis we face. Second point: the parties on our left say that more is needed and that they want to know what the PS will do. At the end of this debate, our society, the Portuguese, those who followed us, understand very well what the Socialist Party should do. The PS must take the initiatives for work progress, from the very outset, because only the Socialist Party has the right to do so and to lead. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Work progress must be made with the best proposals, but also with dialogue, balance and with the political support we bring together to improve the lives of Portuguese people. We must pursue this path of labour gains that we have achieved together and the PS has the best conditions, the support and confidence of the Portuguese to do so. We face emerging challenges: the need to regulate new forms of work and implement the PRR for the reactivation of the labour market, we have enormous requirements for the recovery of the crisis, placing employment at the centre of the economy. Today the Government spoke of the Green Paper on the Future of Work and the structural importance for the enlarged debate that is happening in Portuguese society to improve the world of work in Portugal. The Government here reaffirmed its commitment to the Agenda for Dignified Work, expressed its readiness for plural dialogue and for the meeting of political and social consensus. Third and final note: in this debate, it is important that there are no misconceptions and that there is no attempt to mislead Portuguese on political walls and borders, especially those that do not exist. There's only one wall, which is here on our right. It is a wall that resists the increase in national minimum wage, it is a right wall that precariouss and weakens the worker, it is a wall that resists the increase in the social protection of workers. The right you stay inside your wall. We are here with the appreciation of work, with the Agenda for Worthy Work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese have memory, they know how to evaluate what we conquer and deposit hope in us. The wall on the right joins its stones, but on the left we have no walls and it will not be the PS re-emerging them because this does not serve the improvement of the lives of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That said, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that this has nothing to do with the State budget. [[PSD laughter and protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members on the right, the discussion of the State budget for 2022 will be at its own time, but we also know that when we discussed State budgets that valued the incomes of Portuguese workers, the PSD, the CDS, the right joint voted against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we are discussing the reality of work, we are discussing the serious problems and difficulties faced by workers, businesses and families. Let us not go by the curtain of smoke, by the noise that the right will bring to this debate, with the ghost of the State budget, because this is not the issue, which will be dealt with at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u136	What ghost?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u137	The right has done so, Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, because I wanted to run away from the debate, because you have nothing to present for the improvement of the lives of Portuguese workers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The right has been sheltered in social consultation, which, when it is no longer appropriate for it to respect or dynamize, and has sheltered and shot at the State budget. We're calm. Today, we discuss the reality of work, we will continue with the Agenda for Worthy Work, we will continue to value income, improve the world of work in Portugal, deepen the achievements we have already made. from there the openness and support of the Socialist Party, including with its favourable vote, the proposals that have been put forward here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u138	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u139	I will finish, Mr. President. Nothing—I repeat, nothing! — it will divert us from this path and it is even painful to watch the parties on the right that if they want to affirm as an alternative and have nothing to say but noise,... [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] ... other than diverting attention, but not diverting the discussion that we have done today and that we want to do about the reality of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u141	With these, the Portuguese can't count, but they can count on the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u142	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration, José Couto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Members of the Government, I did not want to take any consideration of not responding to Mrs Carla Barros and so I would like to say that, obviously, I always remember that we have been here five years ago, but I also always remember who was here before us, who failed the Public Administration of human resources and means, that in five years we had to recover. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And what the Ombudsman said was about the increase in 2020,... [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u144	... above all in 2020, a time of pandemic, in which the workers were not only subject to all the vicissitudes to which other citizens were also subject, as they still had to guarantee the normal work and exceptional work that the pandemic involved, particularly in the field of support. So I couldn't stop telling you this. As regards other matters which I have not had time to address, concerning the « breaking of the wall », we also extended ADSE ( Institute for Protection and Assistance in Disease ) to the ITC ( individual employment contracts ), responding to an old aspiration of these workers in the public sector ; in terms of training, we reactivated the APEX ( Alliance for the Promotion of Excellence in Public Administration ) protocol, allowing several higher education institutions to ensure an 80 % discount on the value of propines in dozens of courses, including teachers, postgraduates and programs for executives ; we restructured the INA ( National Institute of Administration ), allowing the development of its institutional dimension, prestige and robustness of its structure to respond to an increasingly qualified public administration ; and we launched very recently, having already opened nominations, the StatageAP XXI, a programme in the Public Administration which will involve 500 stages. Therefore, this work has also been done and in formative matters, which is not an issue that should be disregarded because we need a qualified public administration, so I would like to leave these two notes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u145	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u146	Is it about the progress of the work, Mrs. Member? Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u147	Yes, Mr. President. In the light of Mr. Secretary of State for Public Administration, he asked the services to send to the Government the link of the hearing of the Ombudsman last week in this Parliament and also the report which the Ombudsman gave to Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic to correct the information that Mr. Secretary of State gave to the country today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u148	The Bureau then asked the services which transmitted the link between the hearing held last week with the Ombudsman and the report which was made available to this House. The registration of this application, which will obviously be satisfied, will be carried out at the closing stage of this legislative agenda of the CFP, and at the same time the electronic framework will add the final 2 minutes to the party that is responsible for the scheduling. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has marked this debate to establish and restore rights which are due to workers — to combat precariousness, to set the 35 hours of weekly work as a maximum limit for all workers, the public sector and the private sector, to establish the right to 25 days of annual holidays, to stop redundancies by revoking the rules that have allowed them to be facilitated. These are the proposals which are currently under discussion and which constitute some of the solutions advocated by the CFP for the granting of rights due to workers. Rights that are due because they were won by decades of struggles, but which were destroyed with the Labour Code and their changes to worse in lead years of the PECs (Stabilisation and Growth Programmes) and the aggression pact, with special responsibility of the PSD/CDS government, and which were not restored, as it would be fair, given the resistance of the PS governments. Rights which are due for basic reasons of social justice and which are necessary to solve the problems of workers with low wages, who impoverish themselves to work, subject to levels of unacceptable work precariousness and to the laws of the jungle that rule in the world of work before an ACT little more than inoperative, subject to the sabotage of collective bargaining by the great patronage and the deregulation of labor relations that prevent the reconciliation of work with family life. Rights to be enshrined and restored, for added reasons, at a time when the pandemic is used as a pretext for harming workers and taking back plans, exacerbating exploitation of workers and social inequalities, increasing poverty and exclusion. The contrast between the shocking increase in profits of some large companies and the increase in poverty among workers in times of pandemic, as the public had seen, would in itself be more than enough reason for the approval of the bills that the PCP brought to the assessment of this Assembly. We are talking about realistic, fair and necessary demands. In some cases, we are talking about rights gained by workers, rights which were in force and which were withdrawn from them without any other reason than that of the very nature of right-wing policies to withdraw workers' rights to promote the great patronage, increasing their profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u151	In other cases, we are talking about the rights of workers who in a just and developed society would be unquestionable: the right to a stable job; not to be dismissed without just cause; to reconcile working life with family life and parental responsibilities, as stated in the Constitution of the Republic; to reconcile work with just rest and with the right to leisure as an indispensable condition for the replacement of the labour force. The attack on workers and their rights has been an identifying mark of right-wing policy for decades. Subsequent amendments to the Labour Code, determined by the PSD Government and the CDS, but also by PS governments, have been balancing labour relations in a single sense, always against workers and their rights, always in favour of the great patronage and its privileges. When the Portuguese people defeated the PSD and the CDS in 2015, there was a great expectation of changing the laws of work of a favorable sense to workers. There has been a recovery of rights and income, for which the CFP has contributed a lot, but there has been no change, and it imposes, in the sense of the recovery of fundamental rights of workers. It was by choice and will of the PS that this recovery of rights did not occur and was the successive rejection of the PCP proposals by the PS which led to the situation that still persists today. The large employer continued to be able to sabotage collective bargaining; it was promoted to lapse and the principle of the most favourable treatment of the worker as a matrix of labour law was not taken to limit the extreme precariousness of working bonds; the mechanisms of deregulation of hours and working hours were not changed through group or individual banks or the imposition of night or shift work; arbitrariness in collective redundancies, redundancies due to inadaptation, extinction of the job, or at all and for nothing; the intervention capacity of the Act, which remains unable to prevent even the most gross violations of labour law, has not been stopped; the amounts of redundancies, which remain at balance prices, and, instead, has still been increased to double the experimental period, as if there were not enough the existing precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u152	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fight against job insecurity should be a civil combat, as it was in the past to eradicate child labour. In science, in the arts, in the show, in education, in health, in the multiple forms of falsely independent work done through digital platforms, in contracts per month, week, day or hour, in the work provided through temporary work companies, in the digital platforms that take part of the thin wage there is a whole world of precariousness to which it must be said enough. By the way, Portuguese astronomer and astrophysicist Nuno Peixinho obtained international recognition that allows him to have his name attributed to an asteroid, but does not have recognition in his country that allows him to have a permanent contract as an investigator.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u154	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u155	Combating precariousness, setting the 35 hours of weekly work as a maximum limit for all workers in the public sector and the private sector, establishing the right to 25 days of annual holidays, halting redundancies by repealing the rules allowing them to be facilitated, these are proposals that are currently under discussion and which constitute some of the solutions advocated by the CFP and that workers need to defend their rights and living conditions. And I wanted to make it clear that even if the PS approved all of these initiatives, this would determine our position on the future State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u156	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u157	They should be more at ease with this statement, but it is to be worth it. during this debate we heard the usual arguments to reject the solutions proposed by the CFP. We have heard the question of social dialogue, as if it were not the Assembly of the Republic, the sovereignty body responsible for legislating workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u159	Those who intend to transform social dialogue into a kind of corporate chamber capable of conditioning the exercise of legislative power, no longer want to guarantee the great patronage a right of veto over all and any change in labour law that goes against their immediate interests. We have heard about the competitiveness of companies as if it has not already been demonstrated that it is not with the policy of low wages that has been put into practice that guarantees the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. We have heard the question of the negationism of the class struggle, considered as something of the past, as if those who oppose all and any changes in labour law in a way that favors the workers did not know very well which side they are on. The CFP knows which side it is and will never abdicate from the fight that our times demand by valuing work and workers. The CFP, as its right is, has called for the vote on the bills we are debating to take place today. It is important that every political force now assumes responsibility for its options. The Portuguese who live from their work need to know who they can count on. They won't miss the PCP. That is why we address ourselves to the new generations of workers, so that they may gain the awareness that nothing will be given to you. Everything will have to be won by your struggle. [[Congratulations from the PCP and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u160	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this debate. Let's move on to the voting period. We have 211 ladies and gentlemen. Members registered, and we are therefore in a position to begin the votes. Mr Duarte Pacheco informs me that Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, who accompanies this meeting by teleconference due to prophylactic isolation, has taken account of his sense of vote in the votes we shall make. We will generally vote for Bill No. 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the right to 25 days of annual holidays ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 525 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] This bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 825 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Alter the scheme for collective dismissal and dismissal due to job extinction and repeal dismissal due to inadaptation, strengthening the rights of workers ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will proceed with the general vote of Bill No 47 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recognizes the right to 25 holidays in the private sector (Twelfth Sixth Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 76 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates 35 hours as a normal period of work in the private sector ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 79 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Guarantees the right to 25 days of annual holidays (Tenteenth amendment to the Labour Code). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 536 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensure more leisure time by reducing the maximum limit of the normal working period and the right to 25 working days of holidays in the public and private sectors, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and the tenth amendment to the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will now vote on a request made by the NAP, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of the Bill No 887 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Change the collective dismissal regime, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1368 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government negotiate, within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation, the repeal of the presumption of acceptance of collective dismissal due to acceptance of the compensation paid by the employer. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP and abstentions against BE, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the vote. Mr. Nelson Peralta will do his best to inform the House about the ladies and gentlemen. Members present at the session by videoconferencing. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I announce that they were present at this plenary session, by video conference, the following Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group : Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques, both of Madeira's electoral circle, and José Cesario, of the electoral circle outside Europe. They were also present by videoconferencing, because of prophylactic isolation, Mr. Deputies Pedro Cegonho, of the PS, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, and João Pinho de Almeida, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-06-30.u162	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are left with only the agenda for tomorrow's session, which will consist of a current debate, required by the Greens Ecological Party on the takeover of bivalves in the Tejo estuary: environmental, social and labor issues. I shall therefore give the sitting at the end, with my votes in a good afternoon for all. See you tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[It was 18 hours and 4 minutes.]]
