ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has several communications to make to the House before we enter our agenda. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I begin by referring to the Bill Nos 905 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 906 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 907 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 908 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). The Resolution Projects Nos 1395 / XIV / 2 were also entered. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1396 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1397 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, and 1398 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. of the first item on our agenda is a debate, with the participation of the Government, on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union for Slovenia, provided for in the Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation Act, by the Assembly of the Republic, under the European Union Construction Process. To open this debate, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Slovenia is part of the same trio of Portuguese presidencies, which also counts with Germany. It's a trio that works pretty well. This was the case in 2007, in 2008, and will be the case throughout this year. The priorities of the trio programme were agreed together and represent an alignment with the strategic agenda decided by European leaders, with two essential focussing: the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and the effort to accelerate the recovery of our economy, our societies and our schools, also inducing transformation in order to ensure the success of the dual green and digital transition. This continuity is seen in the four essential priorities identified by the Slovenian Presidency, which are Europe's open resilience, recovery and strategic autonomy, the Conference on the Future of Europe, the defence of the rule of law and the role of Europe in the world, with particular emphasis on its responsibilities before its immediate neighbourhood. I would just like to stress this continuity in this initial intervention, the continuation of the Slovenian Presidency's priorities in relation to the work and the results of the Portuguese Presidency. So first of all, with regard to the resilience, recovery and strategic autonomy of Europe, we coordinated the efforts of the Member States, in close cooperation with the European Commission, with a view to accelerating vaccination so that we can achieve, as soon as possible, the massive vaccination of at least the entire European adult population, also encouraging the strengthening of the European Union (EU) cooperation effort with third countries, because each of us will only be protected from the COVID-19 on the day on which we are all protected, whatever the country and whatever the continent in which we reside. It is also up to the Portuguese Presidency to begin the first steps in training what we call 'the health union', particularly with the agreements we have reached to strengthen the competences of the European Medicines Agency and also with the agreement we have reached on the evaluation of health technologies. Therefore, the continuation of the Slovenian Presidency is evident in this case, as is it in the implementation of the national recovery and resilience plans, after the faster process of the history of European construction, in the ratification of the decision on own resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Following this process, which is the responsibility of the Portuguese Presidency, now on 13 July, is the time for the formal approval of the first national recovery and resilience plans, and the Slovenian Presidency will have a very proper responsibility for coordinating the implementation by each Member State of its own plan. It is very important to note the logic of recovery and resilience plans, because it is exactly the opposite of the troika logic. It is not a question of anyone, outside the parliaments and national governments, of imposing revenue and imposing the same revenue for all; it is a matter of each government, of each national Parliament finding its own way of responding to specific recommendations, of practicing and executing the green and digital transition and of making its own economic transformation. As for the second priority, the Conference on the Future of Europe, I remember that it was the Portuguese Presidency that unlocked this process. There was a difficulty in agreeing between the three institutions — the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council — on the conduct of the Conference on the Future of Europe and it was the Portuguese Prime Minister who unlocked this process. The conference has already begun and means the mobilization of all citizens and parliaments to discuss the policies that Europe must have in order to respond to the wishes of the people. As far as Europe's position in the world is concerned, it is also natural that the Slovenian Presidency wants to give its relationship with the Balkans, and it is welcome to hold the summit with the Balkans. We hope that there will finally be political conditions in one of the Member States so that the solution to which the Portuguese Presidency has reached, with the almost unanimous agreement of the Council, on the approval of the negotiating framework with Northern Macedonia, can be achieved. But I would like to leave a special word for the third priority taken by the Slovenian Presidency: the defence of the rule of law. It is very important for Slovenia to bring its actions into line with its intentions and words. The defence of the rule of law is the defence of the European Union as such and the European Union exists only in so far as it is based on the rule of law. And full compliance with the rule of law is not an option, it does not allow opting outs, it is even an indispensable condition of belonging to the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was under the Portuguese Presidency that the first high-level conference was held by the Council and the European Commission on the rule of law in Coimbra in May. It was under the Portuguese Presidency that the in-depth analysis of the rule of law in the second group of Member States was carried out in alphabetical order. But above all, it was the Portuguese Presidency that unlocked a process that was halted and could not continue to stop: the procedure relating to proceedings opened against two Member States under Article 7. I therefore, as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Portugal, can only be this, and I say it with great pleasure: I wish the highest happiness to the Slovenian Presidency and I wish the greatest commitment, the greatest commitment and the greatest commitment of the Slovenian Presidency to all its priorities, but with particular emphasis on that relating to the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u5	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PS, Mr Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Only next week will we be able to discuss in detail the programme of your Presidency with the Ambassador of Slovenia in the Committee on European Affairs. on that occasion, we will certainly have an opportunity to ask you about the theoretical statement of the Presidency's programme, especially on the real will to apply, especially as regards the matter, as Mr Minister has just stressed, the rule of law and in particular the freedom of the press, as well as to clarify some ambiguities regarding the continuation of the procedures involving Hungary and Poland, in accordance with Article 7. that of the Treaty, whose hearings have been initiated, it is good to remember, under the Portuguese Presidency of the Council. These are issues that require clarification and commitment from the Slovenian Presidency, especially when their priorities are, as the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs has just stated, recovery and resilience in response to the pandemic and the economic and social crisis, the future of Europe and the proclaimed commitment to the success of the conference, which, in good time, has opened and launched in just three months, the defence of the European way of life, with a high level of protection of human rights, and the credibility of the European Union at the external level. They are priorities that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supports, which stem from the principles and priorities contained in the Council's agenda for 2019 / 2024 and in the programme of the trio of presidencies, for which Portugal has contributed and which guided the German and Portuguese Presidency. It is not possible, however, to look forward to the next Presidency without us making a brief assessment of the Portuguese Presidency, so much so that, after its completion, this is the first time that the Minister comes to the Assembly of the Republic. Allow me, Mr Minister, to begin by congratulating you on the incredibly successful presidency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not use my words, but the words of the President of the Commission Ursula von der Leyen, who translate the general feeling into European institutions, capitals and public opinion. I recall the plenary session of the Cosac (Conference of the specialized bodies in Community affairs) at the end of May, at which Mr Prime Minister made himself available to respond, over 2 hours, to the Members of the 39 chambers of the 27 national parliaments, listening to all of them, without a single exception, eloquent words on the good performance of the Portuguese Presidency. Allow me, too, to extend my congratulations to the Government as a whole, to Portuguese diplomacy and administration, which, as a whole, have ensured the irreprehensible Presidency of more than 2000 meetings, from the Council to the most modest committee. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am not going to list the vast set of achievements, from the closure of complex files to the unlocking and the advancement of others. However, I should like to highlight: the agreement on the common sharing of vaccines and the approval, in record time, of the COVID-19 digital certificate of the European Union ; the approval of the instrument of recovery and resilience; the delivery and approval by the Commission of the first 12 recovery and resilience programmes, together with Portugal at head; the ratification by 27 national parliaments and the entry into force of the decision on own resources, having the Assembly of the Republic was the first parliaments to implement it; the political agreement on reform reform of agricultural policy by the Commission of the first 12 recovery and resilience programmes, with Portugal at the head; the ratification by 27 national parliaments and the entry into force of the decision on own resources, having the Assembly of the Republic was the first parliaments, the Social Summit of Porto, the social commitment and the adoption of the Declaration of Porto ; the political agreement on reform of the first European Union climate law and the fund for a fair transition; the Council agreement on the revision of the regulation on electronic privacy; the meeting of leaders of the European Union/India/India/India; the meeting of the meeting of the European Union/India; the meeting of the meeting of the European Union/India; the meeting of the meeting of the European Union and India; the European Union and the adoption of the EU and the EU and the UN and the United and the United and the UN and the United and the United and the United and the adoption of the United Kingdom of the United Kingdom and the ACP and the United and the ACP and the ACP and the ACP and the ACP and the ACP, the ACP, the conclusion of the ACP and the conclusion of the ACP and the conclusion of the conclusion of the ACP, the United Kingdom and the conclusion of the ACP, the conclusion of the ACP, the ACP, the ACP and the ACP, the ACP, the ACP, the ACP, the ACP and the ACP, the ACP, the ACP and the conclusion of the negotiations and the peace and the conclusion of the peace and the conclusion of the peace and the conclusion of the United Kingdom and the peace and the peace and the conclusion of the peace and the conclusion of the peace and the peace and the peace and the peace and the conclusion of the negotiations and the peace of the peace and the peace of the peace of the peace of the peace and the peace of the ACP, the peace of the peace of the ACP, the peace of the ACP, the ACP, the ACP, the ACP, the peace The list would be much more extensive, but these examples are elucidating that, in short, the Government has honored the Portuguese tradition of holding good presidencies. The same is to say that he honored the good name of Portugal and contributed to the self-esteem of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would also like to refer to the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency, in which the role played by Secretary of State Ana Paula Zacarias, who has played an unprecedented event : participation in almost all of the 47 debates of the European Parliament, in which the Government was present with a generalized positive political assessment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would also like to talk about our own parliamentary dimension, which we have not yet had the opportunity to debate in this House. On this subject, and in this case also as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, I cannot fail to congratulate the President of the Assembly of the Republic and the many tens of Members of all the parliamentary groups of 10 of the 14 standing committees that have contributed decisively to a parliamentary Presidency also recognized by our fellow Members as very successful and still this morning confirmed by the delegation of the French National Assembly that is visiting us in the context of the preparation of its own Presidency at 1. a semester of 2022. It was possible to hold 26 inter-parliamentary meetings and conferences, on average, one per seven days, involving 27 national parliaments and 16 third countries, with around 1700 participants, 158 speakers, including almost all the top figures of the European institutions and other international organisations, of which the most relevant example is the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, in addition to prominent members of European civil society and various national governments. It is worth a special reference to the technical staff of the Assembly of the Republic which has been mobilized for this mission and which has been inexhaustible in terms of competence and dedication. [[P.S., BE and P.E.L. applause.]] So the question has fallen on the fourth Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which is why Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs left this question to him: and now what role does Portugal play in the new Europe? I would like the conference on its future, which was launched on 9 May, to rebirth the ashes of the pandemic, the value crisis and the economic and social crises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Moniz, who will divide the time available to Mr Sérgio Marques. Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, Minister : in listing the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of course there is one that did not mention. It is one of four, but it is important, that it is to make the European Union credible, secure and to ensure security and stability in its neighbourhood. With this in mind, Mr Prime Minister, at the end of the Portuguese Presidency, had the opportunity to say that our Euro-Atlantic position is a constant of our geostrategic position that Portugal will never abandon. As you know, today, the Atlantic is the stage of a very big dispute. It is not a battle of the Atlantic, as it was in the 20th century, but a great geostrategic battle by the Atlantic, in which the world's main players, among them China, dispute a strategic geographical space from the economic and military point of view. Control of this space will dictate a great deal of the reorganization of our new world. As you know, the Azores, through the Lajes Base, through the Third Island, bring a very important transatlantic projection. Moreover, when President Joe Biden was elected at the end of 2020, he came to bring a decommissioning that is important to take advantage of. The Lajes Agreement was made in 1995 and is over 25 years old. The world has changed, the challenges are others, the requirements for surveillance, technology and monitoring are different, and, as you know, from a constitutional point of view, the Azores have the privilege of accompanying these negotiations and also being beneficiaries of the benefits they originate. The Azores consider today that this Lajes Agreement is, for the Azores, deeply unbalanced. What translates into a profit of the Azores because they have received these military facilities, the huge environmental liability — not yet quantifiable to date — and the advantages that are due to this cost that the Azores have assumed, have never been properly accounted for until today. And the question I ask you is simple: is it now that you are not in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and in which neutrality will no longer be an aspect, let us say, of refuge, available to review the Lajes Agreement? Will you be available to update it for 26 years? But, Minister, it is not for the benefit of the Azores, it is for Portugal, where the Azores have the role that constitutionally belongs to them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u9	Also in PSD time, you have the floor for an intervention Mr Sérgio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: It is notorious a climate of mistrust and doubt about the performance of the Slovenian Presidency; shadows resulting from positions at least controversially held by the Slovenian Government that contend with European values. But I leave this unsuspecting context aside. instead, I would like to bring to this debate a relevant and strategic issue, which should deserve particular attention from the European authorities. I am referring to a gradual decline in the strength and power of European business fabric over the past 20 years. On the other hand, American companies have significantly strengthened their position and, surprisingly, we have witnessed an impressive rise of Chinese companies, some of them exits from privatizations of public companies, followed by difficult restructuring processes. Who would say that we would witness “Schumpeterian” processes of creative destruction, sponsored by the Chinese Communist Party? in 2000, 46 of the 100 largest companies in the world were Europeans, but today are only 15 ; 76 are American and Chinese. in the last 20 years, the value of European companies in the framework of the 1000 largest companies in the world has fallen to half. This European business decline is worrying and will lead to geopolitical consequences. It is the political and geo-strategic relevance of Europe itself that may be at stake. But it is also a sign that European companies have not been able to anticipate the brutal shift towards the digital economy and new technologies. A more successful entrepreneurial culture, a more friendly and business-friendly environment, large domestic markets, better integrated capital markets, with a lot of risk capital supply and university excellence also explain this massive wave of value creation in the United States and also China. It impresses me - the very dense European mesh of small and medium-sized enterprises. But I do not fail to see an ambivalence — even a mistrust — often founded on ideological prejudices against large companies. Can we afford to waste a greater capacity on the part of large companies to invest in new technologies and in Research and Development, which enhances innovation? It is not by chance that investment in Europe in research is lower than the OECD average ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). I know that the mantra of digital transition and ambitious programs such as Horizon Europe, PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan) or the multi-annual financial framework will try to address this problem. But will it be enough, Minister? And aren't we too late? On the other hand, Mr Minister, and in this context, how do you understand that objectives such as the deepening of the single European market, where there is still so much to do and so much potential for growth to be released, have ceased to be on the priorities of the European agenda?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u11	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u12	I'm done now, Mr. President. I am aware that the great European market will always be fragmented due to cultural and linguistic issues. But Mr Minister, is this not an additional reason for, instead of smoothing up the effort to deepen it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u13	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u14	I should like to begin by congratulating Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Members and all the people who contribute to this debate on the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency. For the Left Block, the Slovenian Prime Minister's speech in the European Parliament did not come to light, but it is a source of concern about his priorities in the Presidency that is beginning. If, at the end of his speech, Janez Janša spoke of the European dream, which was unanimous in Slovenia, because the entry into the European Union symbolized — and these are his words — the « return to a family connected by values of respect, human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy», his speech made it clear that this dream had already become a nightmare in Slovenia. The Slovenian Prime Minister said that he wants a European Union to protect the rule of law and equality for all, but his Minister for Foreign Affairs has already declared that « in the next presidency Slovenia will represent the Council in a way that does not take a position on any kind of matter, particularly in LGBTI matters ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenders and intersex) ». It is not by chance that Slovenia was one of the Member States that did not subscribe to the statement sent to the European Commission on this situation. Moreover, Slovenia was, together with Poland, one of the few countries that openly supported Hungary in Orbán at the Council on 24 June. The problem is that this contagious neutrality legitimizes the authoritarian populism of extreme right and the Member States that are violating human rights and the rule of law. It is the Union itself that is called into question by this agenda of populist authoritarianism. Don't you agree, Minister? The Slovenian Government is accused of paying attention to the fundamental rights of its citizens, interfering with the freedom of the media, criminalizing opposition, recriminalizing protests and attacking migrants and refugees. Is this government's far-right agenda a real threat to the European Union, Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Another issue that concerns us is hard power terminology when the Slovenian Prime Minister refers to how European interests can be advanced. We completely reject this proposal, reject this safe speech. It is not with further militarization that the Union can solve its problems, it is with peace, with disarmament, with reduced spending on the military industry and with the investment of these funds in health, education and social justice that we will be able to truly change Europe and the lives of peoples. This is also a concern for the Left Block with regard to the approaching presidency. We finish by leaving here a last word about the Conference on the Future of Europe, which is also one of the priorities. It seems to us that this is an opportunity for a deep debate on treaties, their concrete application and the improvement of the lives of European citizens. We are committed to this debate, but we will do everything in our hands to ensure that it is as decentralized as possible, stimulating the participation of civil society and its institutions. We do not need a people's offline initiative just to set a timetable. We will continue to defend pluralism, justice, solidarity, real equality for all people. And we hope that the Slovenian Presidency will serve these purposes, because this is also the future of Europe, a Europe that will be united only if it is democratic, free and equal for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u15	I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: As has already been presented in this debate, the essential priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union maintain a line of continuity with the previous presidencies, in particular Portuguese and German. We are faced with guidelines that follow in the same direction, throughout the trio of presidencies, continuing, in the division of tasks that was planned, with greater or lesser refocuses to East or greater or lower professions of faith on European values. In fact, after many years with the doctrine of the American way of life, we now have the strategic priority of the European way of life, in a logic of deepening such strategic rivalries and competitions for supremacy to mask the follow-up of political-military blocs and economic powers. We must not fail to point out that when it comes to — and some have come to do so — this false dichotomy between the deepening of federalism and the prospect of the single market, without sharing other European Union line perspectives, it is important to draw attention to the fact that false dilemmas and false dichotomy do not mask the problem that the'scene chant' of the deepening cannot have as an alternative to keeping everything as it is or maintaining 'only' — with very large quotes — this single market which continues to benefit the great powers. The Minister has already referred to the priorities taken by the Slovenian Presidency with regard to the response to the pandemic, in which the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic, in the perspective of the Slovenian Presidency and in the presentation speech, is considered the European vaccination strategy with a clearly positive balance sheet. For these days, we have been confronted with information, in comparative terms, that Portugal is on the front line in vaccination campaigns in proportion to its population. This means that, with the difficulties and problems we have had, when comparing with what is happening in the rest of Europe, it is well confirmed and well demonstrated that we were right to alert to the need for another policy of response to the epidemic, particularly with regard to our country, as regards the diversification of the supply of vaccines to deal with this epidemic crisis and to put a final point in the situation of genuine scandal in which this public-private partnership was found with the large pharmaceutical laboratories where private interests and those of economic groups clearly prevailed before the interests of the people and the interests of public health. On the other hand, with regard to the so-called « recovery and resilience », there is a question which cannot fail to be raised in relation to the application of the funds and the way in which the political orientation of conditionality is based, not only the macroeconomic conditionality and the prospects that are already behind it, but also with regard to the PRR itself and the guidance that, from the European Commission, in the country-specific recommendations, conditions the sovereignty and decision-making capacity of the countries. So the question is: does the PRR and the application of its funds depend on the implementation of reform recommendations from the European Union in what is defined? It is an aspect that we cannot but question, remembering that statement «you be your own troika», which is, by the way, the message of the times. I am here, Mr President, because in the next round there are other issues that still have to do with the discussion we are having. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u17	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: As Mr Capoulas Santos has already mentioned here, we should be discussing the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency without having had the opportunity to discuss with the Ambassador of Slovenia, as tradition is. however, we know what are the priorities and we know that these priorities are not, as Mr Minister here said, isolated from a common programme of the trio of presidencies Germany / Portugal / Slovenia, which will end now and will obviously come to this same direction, with nuances arising not only from the complementarity of each of these presidencies but with the guidance of each of the governments, which is also special. I have a first question to ask, on the conjunctural issue of COVID, which will also be accompanied by the Slovenian Presidency, and which I have already asked Mr Minister, but which is not yet answered. Because of the evolution of the pandemic and what is already possible to know with the effect of vaccination, if a third dose is needed in relation to one or more vaccines or a second dose in relation to the single dose vaccine, in the case of those who have already had the disease and who have only one dose of the vaccine at this stage, are there, from a European point of view, a forecast of a centralized procurement process such as the one that has taken so far? And I ask whether this forecast will draw some lessons from the first phase, including the capacity of suppliers to respond, the diversity of the number of suppliers to be considered, the linkage with the European Medicines Agency, i.e. all that is possible to analyze the first phase in order to be able to apply to the second phase. I also wonder how the Union assesses the more or less successful effect of having had countries within the Union which, in addition to joining the simplified process, had autonomous processes, which led, for example, to the defination and reversal of restrictive measures, to have a different trend from other countries. Then, with regard to the PRR, Mr Minister said that logic is completely contrary to that of the troika. in some things it is, and we greet that. We remember that when the logic of the troika was built at European level, it was a socialist government that ruled in Portugal — the Minister was part of it — so it is good that a government of the same party, even with some different protagonists, now has a different logic, within the European Union, in response to a crisis. That's very healthy. Still, there's a part that's not true. The Minister said that every parliament is now provided to choose which way to its country. We really liked it that way and even claimed it. We wanted the PRR to be discussed in this Parliament before it was delivered to Brussels. Turns out it wasn't. So what we have is the possibility to applaud or not the PRR that the Government has presented to Brussels. So the day will come when we will be able, in addition to the right to applaud, to have the right to discuss, and that day will certainly be a happier day for this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, when we heard the initial speech that Mr Minister made, in which he clearly indicated Slovenia's priorities in this Presidency, we are a little concerned, precisely because there are two issues in particular which I would like to bring here — the Minister said that Slovenia would continue on the path of Portugal — which were two issues which, of course today, were not being dealt with by Portugal in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I begin by talking about what is involved in the fight against our lives: the fight against climate change. with regard to climate change, objectives, targets, ambitions — or, better, if they are lacking — we cannot fail to regret the fact that the Portuguese Government is satisfied with the results achieved by the Portuguese Presidency with the European Climate Law, so we have to make it clear that we want better work for the Slovenian Presidency. We are talking about a law that brings a set of supposed good intentions, without targets for the binding application of measures to adapt to climate change and without leading the economy to environmental commitments, by not moving in the financial interests of industries. This is an example of the fact that free allowances remain unaffected in the cement industry by 2030, not to mention in sectors which continue to be highly financed, such as livestock holdings, to the detriment of the benefits that should be attributed to agriculture. The European Climate Law places the competitiveness of the economy at the top of the priorities for defining the decarbonisation path. How can there be economic competitiveness without living conditions on the planet? Therefore, political negationism remains before scientific evidence. The other issue we would like to bring is the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency, since it seems to us that there is a certain undoubtedness here. How can we accept that the same government that does not appreciate a free press, that wants to eliminate the independence of the judiciary and that does not lose an opportunity to attack and limit the rights of LGBTIQ people + can say that it wants to make the rule of law in the Union a priority? This is indeed regrettable, since we are talking about a country that has already had quite progressive policies, so we are facing a civilizational retreat. What we hope is that the Portuguese Government was not intrusive in criticizing the Slovenian Presidency in terms of real human rights attacks, as has happened with the pursuit of the rights of LGBTIQ people +.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u21	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs: The pandemic has been launching numerous challenges, but the fact is that the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union has been, at various levels, a missed opportunity which, moreover, confirmed the alignment of the Portuguese Government with policies which are subject to the interests of the great powers and the large economic groups and which are also at the root of social inequalities. The case of diversification of vaccine acquisition options is a clear example of this alignment. from the Slovenian Presidency we will expect you to be able to regain this opportunity. But we also know that, if the path is the same, the result will not be very different. One of the priorities of this Presidency is the Conference on the Future of Europe. The Greens argue that it is, in fact, the need to give more voice to people, it is necessary to give voice to European citizens. However, we are talking about a process that already has well-defined objectives, from which we have great doubts that people really want to be heard — which must be at the heart of policies — and to meet their expectations and needs. In addition, the Social Summit was a clear example of how a sponge is passed in the policies of the European Union when there is a strong impulse to give an urgent and decisive response to the concrete problems aggravated by the pandemic. Another priority presented is a credible and secure European Union capable of ensuring security and stability in its neighbourhood. The Greens defend a Europe of peace, security and cooperation, which is not entirely conciliable with NATO, with the strengthening of militarization and with complicity and even participation in aggressions and interferences and with the prospect, above all, of the creation of a European army. We conclude with a fundamental proposal for the Greens Ecological Party, which has to do with the response to environmental challenges. But if for the European Union the market is worth more than the environment, everything is said and little will have to be added. That is why it is necessary as never a serious change, because declarations of intentions and “crocodile tears” will never respond to the environmental emergency we are living. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u23	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u24	Mr President, Minister, I would not fail to complete this round without telling you the following: many of those who attack the Government of Slovenia are the same as those who defend Belarus and those who diverted planes to arrest journalists. Those who attack European governments who defend European values and not imaginary values defended at home and in places we attend, some of us, are the same. That there was no intrusion in defending those who diverted planes to arrest opponents. I remind you, Minister, what was the only government in Europe — the only one! — which defended Portugal when Berlin closed the doors to travel here to Berlin. It was Slovenia, Minister! It was Slovenia that got up and said Berlin could not close the borders to Portugal or those leaving Portugal on a trip. Don't close your eyes, Minister! It was the Slovenian Prime Minister who said that Berlin was no exception and that he had to comply with the same rules as everyone else in the European Union. Where were all these opponents of the Government of Slovenia when Berlin closed our doors with such a democratic government that it stands for so much? I would also like to say the following: the imaginary values referred to by the Prime Minister of Slovenia are very clear today. It is that while there is a part of Europe that speaks of asylum for all, of universal income for all and of the rights of LGBTI +— and less, and equal, and for the side...— there are those who work every day, who pay taxes and who have to sustain a Europe with increasingly tax burden. The same ones who criticize such imaginary values in a Europe that no longer exists are the same ones who do not care to limit social networks, create censor stamps approved by this Parliament and by many parliaments of Europe, to limit the social networks of European citizens. Slovenia, Hungary, Italy, France... Follow-CL will be Portugal and Spain. We will not give up while these European imaginary models do not give in and this false European Union does not collapse into the hands of the good Europeans, those who work, who pay taxes and want to support this European bloc.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u25	To close the debate, you have the floor to Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to thank all the speeches, comments and questions and, if I may, I will reply in a more thematic order. Firstly, on the subject of this debate, the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency are common to all the concerns expressed here, because they are in relation to any presidency. It is necessary to be consistent with what is said in the acts that are being practiced, and Slovenia will have to show, as Portugal has had to show. As Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal, I only wish Slovenia the greatest success in its presidency. Obviously, as the Presidency of the Council, Slovenia, as before Portugal, will speak on behalf of all of us. And speaking on behalf of all of us, you must speak on behalf of the values of the institutions, of the pillars without which the European Union does not exist. Mrs Fabíola Cardoso said, from my point of view using a very happy synthetic formula, that Europe will be united only if it is democratic, free and equal for all. The responsibility of the rotating presidency of the Council, as of all the other institutions, at every moment, is to say and practice this. But, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, will allow me a comment because I was listening to her, expressing her reservations, legitimate from her point of view, in relation to the following presidency, and I was thinking, with my buttons: « What a nice compliment you are making the Left Block to the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union which has now ended! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then we have questions on the European agenda. Mrs Bebiana Cardoso and Mr José Luís Ferreira have expressed their criticisms of climate law, but they will certainly agree with me that this is the inaugural moment from the point of view of the binding obligations to which we are associated, as the Union. They will also be with me if they say that it was a very important effort not only by the Presidency of the Council, but also by the European Parliament to reach the necessary agreement in the law that is today the most advanced law in the world on climate commitments. In this regard, I would like to express my thoughts on the importance of the parliamentary dimension by our President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Capoulas Santos. No presidency as the Portuguese Presidency has so far stressed this centrality of the parliamentary dimension either in the European Parliament, as a co-legislator, because much of the directives and regulations that we have adopted, the vast majority, results from an agreement and therefore a commitment between the two legislators, the Council and the European Parliament, as well as in the size of the vote, in the size of the political debate, in the size of the monitoring and criticism of the role of the European Parliament. Work with the European Parliament is absolutely essential, but it would be incomplete if it were not, at the same time, a work with the national parliaments. from there the importance of COSAC and from there I would like to congratulate the honourable Member on his first address to our President-in-Office. But allow me also, as an illustrious member of the COSAC and President of our Committee on European Affairs, to address my congratulations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then there are the issues ahead. Mr. João Almeida, yes, we are very likely to have to face the evolution of the virus with the evolution of our own main weapon against the virus, which is vaccination. And, of course, by taking advantage of the good lessons learned from the strategic decision of European leaders and the Commission to make a joint acquisition of vaccines, we will do the same for the additional efforts that will still need to be done to ensure the protection of all. Mr Bruno Dias, yes, it is very important that we diversify vaccines, but vaccines that are technically approved and that are effective. Otherwise the same can happen to us with other countries that have resorted to vaccines whose effectiveness is smaller and which are now confronted with the limits of this effectiveness. And yes, the fulfilment of the Recovery and Resilience Plan is very important, but, as you know as well as I do, the goals we have to compromise on are the goals we set in our plan and not with any logic of troika. Mr President, I should like to say that 'each person must be in his own troika'. That is what the old troika suggests to us'. I, here for myself, prefer the phrase of Person that, in fact, is even better quoted when it is quoted in a Parliament: "Be plural as the universe! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Therefore, it is in plurality that we will achieve common objectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr.Sérgio Marques, your concerns tend to be mine, and it is not today that we differ. And, if I may, I would only not make the match between the United States and China, which you have so often done in your intervention. For me, they are different countries from the institutions' point of view, from the point of view of democracies, from the point of view of the economies. I confess, honourable Member, if I may, that I am incredibly close to the United States than to China in this respect. Mr. Paulo Moniz, has achieved something extraordinary: he has managed to move from the Slovenian priorities to the discussion of the Lajes agreement. But you have achieved something even more extraordinary, saying that now that I have no responsibilities in the Presidency of the European Union, I can deal with the Lajes agreement. We will deal with, and even have a specific committee in this Parliament, the Foreign Affairs Committee, where we work together to improve everything we can. But there is something that I wanted to make very clear in this plenary: the Lajes agreement has nothing to do with any involvement of Portugal with any European programme; it is national sovereignty itself. It is not for me to abandon the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union which I can now dedicate to the Lajes. I dedicate myself to the Lajes every day and to nothing dependent on Europe to make a bilateral agreement which is, in fact, essential for our foreign policy and for our appreciation of the strategic centrality of the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we move to the next item on the agenda, of which there is a debate on the annual report sent by the Government, on Portugal's participation in the construction process of the European Union, as provided for in the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation Act, by the Assembly of the Republic, within the framework of the European Union Construction Process. in this context, will be appreciated the Resolution Project No. 1394 / XIV / 2. a ( CAE ) — Assessment of the report « Portugal in the European Union 2020 ». To that end, I once again give the floor to Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the draft resolution which Parliament will adopt and which has already been adopted in the Committee on European Affairs. I am also grateful for the very commendable references contained in this report to Portugal's participation in European construction during 2020. Of course, we are at the plenary session of the Portuguese Parliament on the stage of political discussion, not in an assembly which seeks to approve the report and the accounts of any association. So let me never give up the idea that we are discussing the modalities and results of Portuguese participation in European construction, not about what happened in 2020, but about the challenges that tomorrow brings us because we are actively involved in the European process. There are five challenges to European construction, because in all of them it is very important to define the 'road' of the European Union and the Portuguese contribution to defining this direction. First of all, we have the challenge of Europe we want. Today we cannot ignore the profound divisions between Member States, between several sets of Member States, on the following essential issue: what Europe do we want for the near future? What conception do we have of Europe? What idea do we have of Europe? What are the fundamental pillars of Europe for us? Some, among us, want to answer this question erroneously, either by chance of history or by a conception, would imagine what would be a European identity based on civil or even religious aspects. No, the European identity is the identity of the political union that we have decided to build together, a political union based on pluralist societies, parliamentary democracies, the rule of law, the social market economy — these are the pillars of the European Union. in these pillars of the European Union lies in the diversity of our political conceptions, our religious conceptions, our national origins, our gender, our sexual orientations, our beliefs, our ethnicity. Today, more than ever, it is necessary to discuss and affirm this plural identity value, but essential in the values that form us, which are the values of the European Union. That is why the conference on the future of Europe makes sense. It is not to have the last discussion on the fourth revision, the last attempt to review treaties; it is about values, policies, and with the participation of all: governments, European institutions, national parliaments, but, above all, citizenship, the whole of European citizens. The second challenge, let us say, at the same time represents the added value of the Portuguese Presidency, which is the following: we can only have a digital and green transition, a successful economic and social transformation if we value and deepen our social model. the social conditionality in the new CAP; hence the very demanding social agenda of the ministers of social affairs; hence the founding moment in Porto on 7 May when the European institutions and all the European partners linked together to the same general agreement on social policy in Europe, both in the employment sphere and in the training aspect, both in the social protection aspect. The third challenge is economic governance. It is very tasty — personally, I have a lot of honour to do so — that the last event of the Portuguese Presidency was the opening of this debate on economic governance at the Lisbon recovery summit last June 30. Because we have suspended the Maastricht rules in 2021 and 2022, but we have to think about what the new rules of economic governance, budgetary discipline, financial policy and economic governance in general need in the future, in particular to push for our economic recovery. Also at this point, the Social Summit in Porto is an absolutely inaugural moment, because one of the main decisions validated then was the decision to include in the European Semester, that is, in the framework of the evaluation of our economic progress, the social indicators. It is not just a question of comparing the deficit, it is not just a question of comparing debt, it is not just a question of comparing economic indicators; it is also a question of comparing our own achievements in combating equality, reducing inequalities, promoting cohesion, promoting social fabric. The fourth and final challenge — for reasons of time, to focus on only four challenges — is that of the European Union's external action policies The multipolar world needs more and more of Europe. But Europe that the multipolar world needs is Europe capable of diversifying and multiplying its partnerships. from there the importance, for us, of meeting with India. the importance of the agreement with the United Kingdom. from there the importance of the restoration of relations with the United States as they should be — relations between the closest friends and the most consistent allies. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to say the following: the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union ended on 30 June, but it did not end Portuguese participation in European construction, nor did it end the Portuguese leadership in European construction, on the contrary, the success of the Presidency gives us more responsibility to take on this role, to be active contributors to the European project, as we want this project,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...democratic, socially advanced, prosperous, inclusive, respecting the human dignity of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u29	I now give the floor to Mrs. Isabel Oneto from the PS. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The extensive report that the Government referred to this Parliament on Portugal's participation in the European construction process is well illustrated by the commitment and work carried out throughout 2020. It is therefore pleased that we see the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs, adopted unanimously, to express a favourable opinion on the general content of the report, considering that it reflects the commitment and consensus between the main political forces represented in the Assembly of the Republic on the integration and participation of Portugal in the European Union, without prejudice to the differences in priorities and guidelines followed in this process. It is clear that the entire year 2020 was marked by the fight against pandemics and by the effort relating to the production of vaccines and the acquisition of personal protective equipment. But it was also marked by the difficult negotiation process of the Plurianual Financial Framework, in which Portugal was one of the main actors, in particular in conjunction with the Group of Friends of Cohesion, which joined, through negotiation, the Next Generation Programme, which not only reflects a robust financial response to the recovery of economies in the European area, based on the structural pillars of digital and environmental transitions, but also represents, precisely, the process of deepening European integration itself. The overall agreement on this financial package was, as the opinion adopted by the Committee on European Affairs states, the most important result of the German Presidency. But if the Community funds are already today, in record time, on the ground it was because the Portuguese Presidency has made a strong effort for the Member States'parliaments to approve in good time the decision on own resources and, even under our Presidency, the first issue of obligations of the European Union was to be launched, amounting to EUR 20 billion, which are already benefiting Member States, including Portugal, which was the first country to see its Recovery and Resilence Plan approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, this is surely one of the marks that Portugal leaves in the European Union, because it was precisely under the Portuguese Presidency that the process of recovery and resilience of the European Union began and that will decisively mark the future. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another marked mark of the Portuguese Presidency. I am referring to the realization of the Social Summit of the Port, the result of which alone among us, by the voice of the opposition, was considered a mere declaration of intent. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask the Government about this. Is it true or not, and I believe that the Minister here has already addressed this issue, in his speech, but I would like you to deepen it, that the social goals set out in the Port Declaration will be examined, in its implementation, within the framework of the European Semester? Oh, my God! Or do they have Member States, their national reform programmes and stability or convergence programmes to ensure the implementation of the social measures defined in the Action Plan on the European Pillar of Social Rights? Oh, my God! Do you or do you not have to ensure that the goals set are met, such as reducing people at least 15 million at risk of poverty or social exclusion? Oh, my God! We are no longer only linked to economic and financial indicators and to convergence, and we have introduced in these economic and financial targets what is the main matrix of the European Union, which is exactly its social and democratic pillar. Mr Minister, at the time we take stock of Portugal's participation in the process of building the European Union, there is another issue that we must not fail to address in particular because the opposition insists on transmitting the idea that Portugal has underestimated the values of the rule of law, which, in fact, has European and international recognition. It is sufficient to consider the re-election of Antonio Guterres as UN Secretary-General ( United Nations ) to measure Portugal's international projection. Mr Minister, it was either under the Portuguese Presidency that a process which had been stopped for more than two years was unblocked, thus passing on to four European presidencies before us, and which took place at the hearing of Poland and Hungary under Article 7. that of the Treaty on European Union, to respond to violations of the rule of law in their countries? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Who has felt Poland and Hungary in the General Affairs Council to respond to the systematic violation of human rights? Oh, my God! I am surprised that, in view of the statements made by the Slovenian Presidency, there is now no comparison with Portugal's work in the defence of human rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u31	Was it not the Portuguese Presidency that managed to include in the Council conclusions the strengthening of the implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the protection of vulnerable adults in the European Union? Oh, my God! Was it not under the Portuguese Presidency that the recommendation for equality, inclusion and participation of the Roma was adopted? Oh, my God! Was it not under the Portuguese Presidency that the agreement was reached in the Council, under discussion since 2017, on the revision of the regulation on electronic privacy? Oh, my God! Is it not under the Portuguese Presidency that the Council has reached agreement on the derogation of elements from the e-Privacy Directive to combat child pornography? Oh, my God! Finally, another question, Minister : despite all the doubts and controversies that were raised around the European prosecutor, was whether or not the Portuguese Presidency had finally started its activity on 1 June, with some 3000 procedures to investigate, related to the illicit use of European money, which is estimated to reach the EUR 50 billion per year in the Community area, particularly through VAT fraud mechanisms (value added tax)? Oh, my God! Was it or was it not under the Portuguese Presidency that we would be examining what is being done in the area of corruption and tax fraud? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u32	This is the result of the Portuguese Presidency, but was gradually built throughout 2020. So here we brought the debate and also to know that Portugal will continue to defend our values within the European Union in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u33	I now give the floor to Mrs. Isabel Meireles of the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u34	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Government's report on Portugal's participation in the European Union of 2020, as summarized in 465 pages, was marked by the response to the pandemic. Health has obviously become the front line of the Union's fight and joint action, led by the European Commission, which has produced, in an unprecedented amount of time, good results. However, in line with the pandemic, Portugal also had 9. GDP ( gross domestic product ) per capita of the European Union, in 2020, and 12. the worst actual individual consumption in the European Union. It is closer to the worst country, Bulgaria, than the European Union average. Portugal has about 700 000 unemployed. Despite this scenario, there are funds to be implemented from the Portugal 2020 Programme. There was no fight against poverty and inequality and we continue in a non-reformist course. The year 2020, of course, contaminated the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the Union. Right at the beginning of this presidency, the country learned that a Ukrainian was killed while under the protection of the Portuguese state. For 270 days, the Portuguese Socialist Government ignored and tried to cover this atrocity with a cloak of indifference and silence. It was shocking, it was shameful, it was unworthy! And when he heard of it, the government found a scapegoat to save the head of the responsible minister, Eduardo Cabrite. This scapegoat was no less than the SEF, the Service of Foreign Affairs and Borders, one of the most prominent elite forces in Portugal, which was torn apart without pain or pity. On the other hand, for years now, the imbroglio of migration has been moving from one presidency to another, and Portugal has been no exception. Worse: he set a bad example in the way he treated Odemira's migrants. We can't forget Odemira's migrants! This presidency, My Ladies and gentlemen, was a disappointment! It saved itself the parliamentary dimension, happily! Also disappointment at the sad performance of the European prosecutor's selection process proposed by Portugal. The Minister of Justice gave a severe blow to the moral authority of the rule of law and suffered severe criticism from the various European institutions, in particular from Parliament, which by 633 votes to 690 — MEPs — condemned the shameful action of the government which held the rotating presidency of the Council and therefore had an obligation to set an example, especially in an institution which is supposed to combat corruption. On Twitter the Prime Minister wrote « Portugal closes the presidency of the Council of the European Union with an eye on the future ». The problem of this presidency was an illusion: we are always looking forward to it! However, Portugal was overcome by the countries of Eastern Europe and obviously did not scare Commissioner Elisa Ferreira's words about the Portuguese structural delay and the waste of successive Community support frameworks. But for the Prime Minister, what counts is that Portugal can already go to the bank. Yes, Minister, you can go to the bank. Portugal is at risk of disposing of more money from European taxpayers. To access the « bazauca », it is sufficient for a PRR and a government of dazzles. The gula of fresh money had as a motto the superfluous and incomprehensible expenditure of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council: an empty press centre, buying facts, shirts, wines... And the Portuguese Presidency was not only a ghost, it was also a feast for a government that lost the total notion of reality. Even the Minister of Agriculture participated in this exhibition and expenditure festival: it was €211,000 partying, only for one day of the meeting of the Council of Ministers of Agriculture. The catering for lunch, dinner, a private concert with a fadist... for we know that the fairy of socialist governments is spending, and spending on European seeing. with regard to the pandemic, the country knows one of the most disturbing phases for our constitution. Freedoms are restricted with the greatest lightness and, in this chapter, it is appropriate to say that if Dr. Mário Soares, at times, put socialism in the drawer, Dr. António Costa put the Constitution in the drawer. This government has been very close to Brussels for six months, but is increasingly distant from Portugal and the Portuguese. This government is now a dead body, no longer alive, decomposes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u35	Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso from the Left Block has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u36	Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State, Mr. and Mrs Deputies : We discuss the annual report sent by the Government to Parliament on Portugal's participation in the construction process of the European Union, but the news of the day on Portugal in the European Union is the statements of the French Secretary of State, noting travel to Portugal and Spain during the summer. The impact not only on tourism but also on the lives of thousands of emigrants and their families in Portugal are enormous. The report we are discussing has more than 450 pages, markedly descriptive, on subjects as relevant to the European Union's construction process as the new Multiannual Financial Framework, the new Next EU Generation, but also Brexit, the rule of law in the Union or external action. Despite the scope of the topics discussed in the report and the depth with which some are addressed, the maximum common divider of the year 2020 could not fail to be the answer to COVID-19. Portugal always emerges in positions of appeal to joint and articulated responses between the 27, but reality has been, and it is, today, as can be seen by the example of the statements of the French governor, far away from this objective. Interestingly, this news comes almost at the same time as the news that announces that the United Kingdom will not exempt from quarantine all those who have full vaccination and arrive in the United Kingdom coming from Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u37	He'll be released!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u38	He'll be released! If I said « will not exempt », I'm sorry, I meant « will exempt ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u39	It was a fruitful dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u40	The essential issue — and that is what my example intended to demonstrate — is that there has not yet been a coordinated policy of opening and closing borders throughout 2020. There is no joint policy on the application of quarantines. More than this political coordination capacity, more than a capacity to base decisions on scientific information, appear to be casuistic reasons, coupled with economic interests, to decide on a case-by-case basis. Neither the authorization of events nor the cancellation of others, nor the questions raised by the distribution of variants make any sense. Discoordination is obvious in this case. Nor does the advance of vaccination seem to bring the security we all want. Once again, the initial delay, vis-à-vis other countries, is partly related to the non-relevance of the intellectual property rights of vaccines. Temporary suspension of patents would also facilitate vaccination worldwide, which is essential to contain the emergence of new variants. But the European Union continues to reject this path, preferring to defend the large pharmaceutical industry rather than the common good. We have heard for more than a year about the 'European bazauca' of the millions and millions that would solve everything, but, compared to other economic blocs, these amounts are small and are slow to arrive. The United States is moving forward to the third package of measures to respond to the social and economic consequences of COVID-19. Mr Prime Minister said that «we can already go to the bank», but the truth is that the money has not yet arrived and, when it arrives, it will hardly be applied in public policies that really change the economic paradigm because the treaties are suspended but have not been repealed. The troika looks forward to a near future. The pandemic has made it clear that neoliberal policies that resist European treaties do not serve to build Europe for the post-COVID-19. from the climate to migration, from the fight against poverty to the management of the pandemic, from the agricultural policy common to the rule of law, this Europe is deeply limited in the immediate response and does not dare the changes necessary for the preparation of a truly sustainable future. We, Portugal and the European Union are losing opportunities to build a truly different Europe. That is also what this report tells us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u41	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The balance sheet on Portugal's integration into the European Union and what happened at this level in 2020 confirms the warnings that the CFP has repeatedly expressed. Subject to the constraints and taxes of the European Union, and in particular of the euro, Portugal, even in a less adverse situation such as in recent years, has not exceeded structural dependence, deficits, problems and inequalities. Any social justice policy, raising wages and rights, improving living conditions, asserting sovereignty, inevitably confronts the constraints arising from the European Union and the euro. The evolution of the European Union was marked by increasing inequalities and asymmetries of development, accelerated concentration and centralisation of capital, and increased exploitation and social backwardness once again exposed to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. One fact that occurred in 2020, the realization of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union — despite attempts to reverse the expressed will of the British people and campaigns about impossibility or chaos in the face of the decision to dissociate the European Union — was a strong blow to the theories of the irreversibility of capitalist integration in Europe. Inseparable from contradictions and rivalries inherent in the capitalist nature of the European Union is at the same time a reflection of popular discontent with the European Union. The negotiations and successive impasses in the preparation of the Plurianual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 revealed deep fractures and contradictions that run through the European Union and demonstrated that capitalist competition in the single market prevails over any prospect of solidarity and cooperation between States, which, in practice, has been confirmed as non-existent. The recovery fund, in a significantly reduced version compared to initial values, particularly in its component of « grants », was assumed as the anticipation and reduction of future revenue and the increase of the loan component, boosting even greater indebtedness, particularly harmful to countries such as Portugal, already deeply indebted. The response to the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic confirmed and confirmed that neither the European Union is an area of cooperation and solidarity nor the euro shows itself as a « protective shield ». Once again, the European Union's response to each new crisis episode was, and is, the deepening of capitalist integration and its neoliberal, military and federalist pillars, in particular with new transfers of powers from States to the institutions of the European Union, dominated by great powers. He spoke recently about the suspension of the application of some of the effects of the Stability Pact. And it is true, but we have no illusions! The truth is that the budgetary treaty, the economic governance packages, the European Semester, the various conditions in the use of structural and investment funds, the imposition of the Banking Union, the establishment of the Union of the Capital Markets, the consolidation and enlargement of the single market, all these matters constitute a fabric of conditionalisms, particularly at the economic and budgetary level, which are increasingly subject to countries such as Portugal. And it is unthinkable to speak in an isolated way in economic governance ignoring all this reality. Even if it is intended to include short-range social indicators to compose the branch, the result is always enlightening of this policy of taxation and domination — a Europe of the great powers and of the large economic groups, such as those that have taken advantage of the pandemic for new offensives against workers and peoples. The year 2020 has once again demonstrated that the European Union is not reformable, that it is urgent a democratic and progressive rupture that will allow the building of a new political, institutional and cooperation framework between States, for effective social and economic development, peace, friendship and solidarity, in order to open the way to a Europe of workers and peoples. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u43	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u44	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Portugal's participation in the European construction process, and even the Presidency, have been marked for a very unfortunate moment, for those who see in the European project a form of Portugal assert themselves, which was the phrase of Mr. Prime Minister « we can already go to the bank ». That is all Portugal should not be in the European context. Portugal has gained, over the years, the fruit of different guiding governments—so it is not even a question of ideological dispute—the status of being a fully-fledged country in the construction of the European project. We are no longer an extended country in the European Union for many years. So we didn't deserve a Prime Minister who, at a time like that, had an unhappiness, to say the least, like the one he had. We had merit, because the Socialist Government wanted to have a good student behaviour, to some extent, being the first to deliver the PRR, to do so, to meet those that were – without telling Portugal – the demands of the European Commission for the approval of that PRR and then a unhappiness of those caused everything to be lost. You don't understand Mr. Minister, you don't understand. We are a country that should value cohesion and should value equal rights in participation and therefore we want to give money that comes from the European Union, and that goes to all other countries too, a destination that is worthy of Portugal's participation in Europe. And that worries us. Why are we worried? at a time when the European Commission, for example, reviews growth for the second half of the year, we see that the European Union will have a better performance than what was expected, except for two countries, and one of them is Portugal. So the moment we ask whether we can already go to the bank, the reality we have is that those who don't ask this kind of humiliating question will be better in the second half and we go to the bank but we don't get better. And that concerns us not only for the government's driving but for the reflection that this has on people, because it can continue to cost us the loss of relative position in GDP per capita, which has happened to us. in recent years, from year to year, we see countries that have the same conditions as ours, from an economic point of view, from the population's point of view, move forward in wealth per inhabitant. And that's worrying! We look at the PRR and the macroeconomic scenario of the PRR and we see that the expected growth of Portugal in the coming years, despite all this money injection, will continue to be little more than anaemic and therefore we will not recover competitiveness. And if, at a time when the European Union has to stop — and we agree there — to recover from a crisis differently from what it has done in the past, giving countries the opportunity to multiply European funds, as never before, if at that time we do not recover relative position and we do not recover competitiveness, then we will not recover at any time. Therefore, what concerns us at the moment in European participation is this competitiveness and this ability to assert ourselves, because only then will we be able to overcome two of the major challenges we have: digital transition and climate transition. To that end, we need the re-qualification of our human resources, the capitalisation of our companies, the reduction of the tax burden and the conditions for exports to continue to make our product grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u45	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u46	We are far from that, Mr President, and I am already far from the end of time because I have passed it. We are far from that, Minister, and we like to have assurances that our European participation will succeed in the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u47	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u48	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members : We are talking about Portugal in the European Union, so we are talking about Portugal which welcomes the fight against climate change and does not meet the objectives of the implementation of Community funds in this area. According to the report « Climate and energy transition: the unexplored potential of EU funds », it is clear that European Union countries do not use regional development funds to accelerate the transition to carbon neutrality. The report concludes that the States 'have been slow to support their climate commitments with European funds' and that they have only mobilised 10 % of the European Union's regional cohesion and development funds for the period we are discussing and now ending, this to finance clean-source energy. We recall that the European objective of using these funds in this period for climate action was 20 %. The report also shows that Portugal was the user of cohesion policy funds with a higher percentage for investments in public infrastructures, but only 7 % of these funds were used in investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency and research and innovation, still below the European Union average. As far as human rights are concerned, of course we must bring this debate, we do not see it, and we must say that neither the European Union nor Portugal position it in relation to certain attacks, either on the genocide that is being perpetrated against the Uighur people in China or on what is happening in Myanmar. Indeed, Portugal does not lose a few minutes, nor does the European Union, to consider the grave situation that is happening in Myanmar: we are facing an internal aggression of an army almost always defenseless people. That is, something very similar is happening to what happened in Tibet, an internal, systematic aggression, ignored by the international community, even possibly being too late. I would also like to recall the European Union's position on attacks on the civic rights of pro-democratic activists perpetrated by China in Hong Kong. The NAP has given an answer, but we have not seen Portugal follow that same answer. Finally, it is important to say that the year 2020 has shown what the European Union can be, a synonym for solidarity between countries. Although more needs to be done, we have verified it in the mega-operation of the acquisition of vaccines, ventilators, personal protective equipment, evidently with the many failures we know. However, we must not fail to recognize that, when there is political will, it is possible to break down walls that have been viewed here as unreachable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u49	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. in the case of Portugal, there is no need to break down the walls in relation to unmarried international couples who, since the beginning of the health crisis, continue to be unable to find in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u51	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u52	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: when discussing the construction of the European Union, the differences between the Greens Ecologist Party and the priorities and guidelines of this process, which are based on a European Union which is virtually limited to food markets and great powers, are clearly beyond the scope of the Greens. In fact, even with the pandemic, these priorities have not changed a comma. The Greens stress that Portugal cannot close its eyes to the path that has been made and to the results that have been achieved and reinforces that it must be re-equalized to where this European Union goes and with whom it is going. Portugal is committed to NATO ( NorthAtlanticTreatyOrganization ), in its ongoing structured cooperation, is in line with a process built outside Europeans and, in particular, Portuguese and has also given green light to the conditions and limitations imposed on us by the European Union in relation, for example, to the Recovery and Resilience Programme and the Plurianual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027, with clear interferences even to the development of the country. What we think is that it must be the Portuguese and those who represent them, whether the Government or the Assembly of the Republic, to define the priorities of our country, because it is us, and not the European Union, who knows where the money should go to invest. That is why it seems to us that it is time to look at what has been done and give robust answers, without, of course, giving up the defence of democracy, public services, the environment and a Europe of peace and cooperation where it is possible to affirm national interests and sovereignty, in a Europe of equal States, with respect to the specificities of each country. Finally, the Greens are again insisting on an issue which is very important to us and which has to do with carbonic neutrality, until it becomes increasingly incoherent and incompatible with defending carbonic neutrality and sustainability in accordance with the Paris Agreement and, at the same time, insisting on the Energy Charter Treaty, which is one of the greatest obstacles to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It therefore seems to us that only the firmness of the Member States and the European Union itself can put an end to these ties, and it is regrettable that there is no sign on the part of the Portuguese Government. In the face of all this, we know what the position of the Portuguese Government has been in the construction of this European Union so far, but what it is important to know is what position the Portuguese Government will take from here to face the challenges we have to face, also taking into account the path that has been followed by the European Union, which is almost an instrument of neoliberalism in which only markets and European citizens have little relevance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u53	We are now moving to the closing stage of this debate which, at least for today, will be the last. You have the floor again, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u54	Mr President, it is always a pleasure for me to be in Parliament and, if I may, I inform you that, immediately following this plenary, I will meet with the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you very much to the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I may begin by answering the questions considered and perhaps by responding to the most localized questions. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, we, the European Union, until we approve sanctions against individualities responsible for human rights violations in Myanmar and sanctions are only passed because Portugal votes in them, since approval is unanimous. Of course, Portugal was one of the first countries to support these sanctions. Both in the European Union and in the Human Rights Council, Portugal has also participated in international condemnation of what is happening in the Chinese province of Xinjiang. I understand the concerns of Mrs Deputies and Mr Luís Ferreira on climate change, and I therefore think that you are. Members should first welcome the report from the European Union on the level of compliance with the 2030 targets among all Member States and therefore put the Portuguese state in place - VV. Ex. So are they! — as the country that is closest to the objectives defined for 2030. As should also be welcomed, firstly, by the fact that Portugal has exceeded, and by large margin, the threshold of 37 % of expenditure contained and financed in the RRP directly affects investments with the green transition and, secondly, with the successful insistence that we have made in the context of the CAP reform so that this progress towards agriculture is environmentally sustainable, with the so-called 'green architecture' of the CAP. I understand the fundamental divergence I have with Mr Bruno Dias on the way, but not on the objectives, and of course the prosperity of the European Union is a fundamental objective and pillar of our Union and is intended to benefit the workers and the peoples of the whole European Union. That is why territorial cohesion and solidarity are essential values for the European Union and I believe that we have fulfilled them, particularly in the fight against the pandemic. If Mr. João Almeida will allow me, you have a matter of faith and you think things will go wrong in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u55	Mr. Minister too!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u56	We'll see! We'll be there to check it out. After that, he spent much of his speech trying to glosse a formula which, in my opinion, was rightly said by the Prime Minister. in the first time I even remembered that phrase by Fernando Pessoa that said it was typical of provincial syndrome not to understand irony, but, as my fellow, Mr. Deputy cannot have provincial syndrome, because people of my land, by definition, are not provincial. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] I therefore draw the obvious conclusion that you were spending so much of your Latin on it because you had no other criticism to make. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs João Pinho de Almeida.]] If you really had something, you wouldn't spend your Latin on it. As for the Latin of Mrs. Isabel Meireles, it is in a tone that I do not follow. In fact, I believe that the PSD should not follow it either, and I am impressed by the degradation of the PSD speech on Europe. For those who, like me, have become used to admiring so many people in the PSD who have given so much to the European integration of Portugal — Prof. Valente de Oliveira, Prof. Vítor Martins, Prof. Carlos Pimenta and so many others — it is hard for me to see that you are going down to that level. So, I just remember the best definition of fanaticism I know, which is due to the great Israeli writer, unfortunately already dead, Amos Oz, who basically said this: at the bottom, a fanatic is the one who is unable to finish a sentence but with a point of exclamation. It's all shame! , it's all « unworthy! », but I insist on the point that this is a type of speech that already has its niche in this House and agreed that it would not contaminate the centrality of the Assembly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I must tell you that it cost me, in particular, to have brought Dr. Mário Soares to that, because, Mrs. Deputy, to comment on Mário Soares it takes another level. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also take the views of Mrs Isabel Oneto. Allow me not to comment, because I am 100 % in agreement, and to see a specific issue of the day, and which I think is very important, put by Mrs Fabíola Cardoso on the discoordination of the measures of the European Union. Combating this discoordination, which, in fact, came into existence, was one of the most important purposes of the Portuguese Presidency. I believe that we have achieved a great deal and the proof of this is as follows: see as countries which, in the meantime, have taken positions which I have had to criticise because they seem incoherent are approaching the Portuguese position. Germany, a few days ago, in the wake of the digital certificate itself and our recommendation, decided to consider the possibility of a transport ban specifically directed to Portugal, but it did not take a week for the Minister who decided to say "after all, that was a bad decision" and for Germany to correct it. As far as the United Kingdom is concerned, it has evolved today towards an exactly symmetrical position in the position which Portugal has adopted in relation to the United Kingdom. The pandemic situation in both countries is, in fact, very close, additional care is needed and what we say is that for those who are already vaccinated, immunized or tested, those who have the digital certificate, there is no reason to impose the quarantine on them. Today, the United Kingdom has adopted that decision. As for today's statements by a member of the French Government, what I can say is that I have already received the relevant information. To be true, I will say it first in French and then translate it: "I am sorry about the bad buzz of my statements this morning. We'll clarify the cell again this afternoon. Do not keep on seeking. ” In other words, "I am desolated with the effect caused by my statements this morning. We're going to clarify the issue this afternoon. So, calmly, let's wait for what's going to happen this afternoon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u57	We have reached the end of this point and with it the end of the agenda for today. I now call on the Secretary of Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha to give various information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to note that you have attended this session, by video conference, Mr Paulo Porto of the Socialist Party, elected by the outside circle of Europe, and that the Members are in prophylactic isolation. Deputies Pedro Cegonho, of the Socialist Party, and João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-08.u59	The agenda for tomorrow's plenary session, which is scheduled for 10 a.m. in the first point we will have the discussion of the Bill No 103 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System and the regime applicable to the organisation and functioning of the courts. The second point is from the opinion of the Bill No 104 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Reform of security forces and services engaged in internal security activities within the framework of the rehabilitation of the competences of the Foreign and Border Service, together with Bills Nos 905 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — Amendments to Articles 12 are made. it's 13. the Act No. 53 / 2008 of 29 August approving the Internal Security Act, 907 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Approves the organic of the Portuguese Agency for Migration and Asylum, I. P. e 908 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 252/2000 of 16 October adopting the Organic Law of the Foreign and Border Service. Finally, we will have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We are thus at the end of this session. Thank you all very much for your participation. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 47 minutes.]]
