ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] The first item on the agenda is the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 708 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Protection and recovery of the ravine and 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recognition and protection of the ravine and its cultural identity. To open the debate, Mr Pedro do Carmo, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the presentation of this bill, address a very special compliment to all the ravines. Valuing the identity, diversity and shared experiences is always a good strategic starting point for the affirmation of communities, territories and the country. This is what we do with this initiative to defend and enhance the ravine. Even assuming the existence of a homogeneous and monolingual reality in the linguistic profile of Portugal, there is space for diversity. There's and there's got to be. This is the meaning of local initiatives to recognize the linguistic heritage as an identity of the immaterial heritage of the populations, accompanied by this initiative that gives voice to the Lower Alentejo. There has to be a future for the ravine and for your community, because only a people with memory and identity is able to build the time to come. The reality of the ravine and the significant increase in scientific production around its evolution and characterization show, today, clearly, another unique linguistic reality in Portugal, and even in the Iberian Peninsula, which, for its subsistence to the present, must also deserve a normative intervention, in line with the European and international movements to protect this type of linguistic immaterial heritage. As to its origins, it is estimated that, in its remote roots, the ravine can follow the stay, from the medieval period, around the Noudar Castle, a former headquarters of municipality, of population from Castela, having the maintenance of continuous contact between the lands of Barrancos and the neighbouring Spanish populations contributed to the permanence of this linguistic specificity, which scientific literature has traditionally translated to a dialect of Portuguese, a local language or, in some cases, a mixed language. José Leite de Vasconcelos conducted, in the 30th century, important studies that originated the Barranquenha Philology, a work in which he concluded the identification of a curious popular dialect, used in the municipality of Barrancos, which is based on the talk of Basso Alentejo, modified by the extreme-andaluz, which gave him a very remarkable feeling and which deserves his attention revealed and does not let himself die without his grammar and lexicon being duly investigated. More recently, in the context of a movement that convenes several researchers, the professor of the University Complutense of Madrid María Victoria Navas defended the revision of the status and typology so far attributed to this mixed language variety, preferring to identify the ravine as a minority contact language, more than just a dialect, a border speech or a raian speech, as other authors traditionally qualified it. Even though the scientific debate around its classification may continue, all researchers are unanimous in the detection of a clear and worthy intellectual cultural manifestation of protection and valorization. There is a real, differentiated experience that must be protected and valued and, in accordance with the guidelines of various international bodies on the protection and protection of minority and threatened languages, oral traditions and expressions, including language as a vector of cultural heritage, must be safeguarded and valued. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, the language can and should be understood as an ancestral practice and a cultural tradition, a reflection of local society. The baranque, a hybrid language, although without written tradition, unique in the world by its mixed character of Portuguese and Spanish, spoken by about 1300 residents and by all natural of the municipality for several centuries, is therefore a place of encounter of peninsular cultures. Where others divided, the language united, cemented relationships and formed their own identity. The vitality shown by the ravine does not, however, allow to remove all threats that have arisen over its survival. First of all, because according to UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), any language spoken by fewer than 5000 people tends to be threatened, so the evolution of current numbers of speakers in the ravine is a cause of concern. This reality adds the aging of speakers. The disappearance of the older generation may result in the irreparable loss of this linguistic heritage if no measures are taken. Finally, in this context, the lower physical isolation of the territory, which the development of the region and the media and transport has led to the intense presence of Portuguese as a language of the administration of the territory, school, the media and neighbouring lands, can also contribute to a risk of assimilation by the official language. It is therefore essential and urgent to preserve the ravine in order to avoid the irreparable loss of this invaluable linguistic heritage and a brand of identity. in this context, the safeguard goes through the strengthening of documentation and research on the ravine, a conservation impulse that must transcend the borders of the municipality of Barrancos because a local, regional, national and even European identity is involved. Europe is also richer by this diversity, made up of memories, that it wants part of the future. It is in this context of recognition and appreciation that this legislative initiative emerges, going to the meeting of the fundamental work already underway and corresponding to the local aspirations for the protection of a heritage with a truly national scale, deserving of consecration in the law of the Republic and the development of public policies of the national scale for its protection and valorization. The barranquillo resisted and removed borders and barriers that the States have built, because this is a people who resists, who fights isolation, who defends, who finds new ways to preserve their identity. The ravine is also the struggle of a people against massification and cultural globalization. The ravine is synonymous with authenticity and what is truly genuine in a people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[At the moment, Vice-President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I greet you with the wishes of a good and fruitful return to parliamentary work. Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings to the Assembly of the Republic a bill aimed at the recognition and protection of the ravine and its cultural identity. This is a distinct bill, which the PCP brings, which is different because, besides introducing the recognition and protection of the ravine, recognize its cultural identity: the habits and customs of a people, its traditions, its gastronomy, its memory. But allow me, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I talk to you about Barrancos, a people meeting, meeting, fraternizing and, above all, knowing how to live that is a constant. In any corner of Barrancos we can find a story, a lesson in life. Let me highlight two moments in the history of Barrancos. First, during the Spanish Civil War, it was in Barrancos and its people that many Spaniards, fleeing the dictatorship of Franco, found refuge and reception to escape to the right death. The people of Barrancos knew how to defend their neighbors. at another time, when Portugal was subject to the largest dictatorship, that of Salazar, the smuggling routes found in Barrancos a solution to kill the hunger of many Portuguese, of many Alentejos. So Barrancos has this heritage, the ravine, a mixed speech of Portuguese, in the Alentejo variant, and Spanish, in the Andalusian and extreme variant. from here this dialect, this language, due to the continued coexistence with the neighbouring Spanish populations, in particular that of Encinasola. But we cannot fail to emphasize the contribution of the city of Barrancos so that the language of Barrancos will continue to live and have strength. To this end, he contributed to the decisive intervention of the city of Barrancos, which in 2008 approved and classified the ravine as a municipal immaterial cultural heritage; and, already in summer 2017, promoted the study of the ravine for the national classification and teaching of the ravinequinho in the local school. We recognize the characteristics of this language, but we also need to recognize the difficulties that Barrancos goes through, as well as talk only about the ravine. This is a people who, like other peoples, the CFP does not stop defending for being distant. Barrancos is physically distant, but economically and socially, it is far more distant from the position of successive governments that keep it in the forgetfulness and abandonment. That's why, every day that passes, Barrancos gets further away. In Barrancos, we can easily identify those who resist, who build an identity, a culture and a language, who build their habits and traditions and keep them alive, but we can also find in Barrancos those who will enjoy and benefit from a unique culture. And we also found those who only go there at the parties and at the fair. We want them to continue to go there, we invite them to go there, but we also want them to defend the ravine, Barrancos and this territory. because of the problems of Barrancos and its economic and social development, we cannot continue to leave him to his luck, health, education, accessibility, transport. Even during the COVID-19, the Barrancos border was closed and was not given the same opportunity as was given to the other borders. Therefore, it is important to defend Barrancos and defend his language is to defend that entire territory and council. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u5	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting you, in particular Mr João Dias, for this very passionate intervention. Clearly, a man from your land. He slightly extravagant the subject, but in the times we live, it is understandable that he has this passion. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr President, in various matters and in matters relating to the preservation of traditions, by our nature and political position, of course we will follow these two projects. Not because we make an empty defense of traditions, but precisely—and in this case it is! — because there is a basis in academic work for us to follow them. Moreover, both projects note the work of Prof. María Victoria Navas, of the University Complutense, which points to the importance of the classification of the ravine as more than a dialect or a root language, but truly as a minority contact language. According to what is possible to consult, both in the projects as well as in the municipal chamber itself and at the University of Évora, the University is precisely working to make the ravine recognized as a minority co-official language, documenting its historical memory and experience and vivification in the community and even developing an orthographic convention and a grammar, precisely because the ravine is a language of oral tradition that does not have an established and formalized counterpart, as a tradition, as a written language. As has also been said here, the fact that there are a small number of speakers endangers the value of this minority language, its identity expression and the local cultural heritage, which we believe is important to defend. Therefore, we will support these projects, recognizing, valuing and preserving the ravine, being taught in schools, studied and investigated. However, we have an issue which can be worked out in the field of expertise and which has to do with Article 4. the PS project and Article 5. the PCP project, which proposes that the ravine be used as an official documentation language, in parallel, I assume—and perhaps it is necessary to explain this better—with the official language of the country. Exactly because there is no solidified written tradition, perhaps it is better to consider how this work will be done. But apart from that, and with these reserves that can be refined in the field of specialty, we will accompany this project, for your great joy, Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u7	For an intervention, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the day the Assembly of the Republic discusses the protection and valorization of the ravine, greeting Barrancos and his people. I greet a land with history and strong cultural references, a land of working people, who have been able to preserve their traditions in a very strong popular culture, including their very own linguistic characteristics, based on the baroque dialect, there has been a lot of reference. However, today let me remind you of the work we did here in 1998 and 1999 in the context of the Commission on Education, Science and Culture for the legalization of the Miradense language. I am the only remaining member of this group of Members in this current composition of the Assembly, and therefore I have the duty here to highlight the impact that such a decision had on Miranda do Douro and its lands. I remember well, ladies. Members, the symbolic session of this Commission which we then held in the Peace of the Miranda Douro Council. Its meaning was clear. It is in this same spirit that we participate in this debate today, hoping that the decisions we have come to make have a strong positive impact on the exploitation and development of the lands of Barrancos. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the language is a structural element of the culture of a people, constituting a fundamental identity value for their existence and affirmation in the world. Portuguese is a magnificent example of this, historically being a language that has approached and approached peoples, constituting the great factor of connection between the nearly 300 million luxophone citizens in the world. However, with our historical dynamism and our ability to interact and mix, our language was able to reinvent and mix with others, allowing many peoples of the Lusophony universe to create other languages and dialects that are equally important factors of identity affirmation. This is how, despite the cultural homogeneity in Portugal, there are specific and characteristic characteristics of peoples and regions that, also in the national territory, particularly in the area of the raia, have allowed to develop own language communication formulas, setting up mixed languages or dialects or transition. This is the case with the baranque, the mirror, the minderico or the castrejo dialect, these least known. The study of this multifaceted linguistic reality has long involved researchers and academic institutions, in a work strongly encouraged by the investigations of the great ethnologist and philologist Leite de Vasconcelos, my almost contained, natural of Ucanha, in Taruca. Vasconcelos' milk was very clear when he stated that «it is not Portuguese the only language used in Portugal (...). Here is also the Miradense..." and «... of the coexistence of Hispanics with the inhabitants of Nuudar and Barrancos has influence in Portuguese, which has very much competed for the formation of a special type of language, designated in the village by barranquillo, or speak barranquin, or speak to the barranquinha». This rich linguistic universe must thus continue to be worthy of our greatest attention, as legislators, being very evident the already practical results of the approval of the law that allowed a clearer affirmation of the Miradense in the Miranda do Douro plateau and even at national and international level. from there the importance of these bills, which follow other previous initiatives of several quadrants, including my political area, cannot forget the contributions of the former Member, elected by the circle of Beja, Mário Simões, that I so well remember having struck for this objective within and outside my party, to whom I also pay tribute. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] I am sure that the adoption of a legislative initiative that will protect and enhance the ravine, with the formulation now presented or with another, perhaps further, will be a serious contribution to the enrichment of our linguistic culture. In any case, the approval of these initiatives will be a clear political incentive for the ongoing initiatives by the City of Barrancos and the University of Évora to develop a large programme of preservation, study and valorization of the linguistic and cultural heritage of Barrancos, including the documentation of the barranquillo, the organization of an orthographic convention, the development of a grammar and dictionary, not forgetting, of course, the teaching of language. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know how to be bold. That this is not the mere manifestation of mere generic intentions, but more than that, that one can define a very clear legal framework in relation to tasks and responsibilities, involving all — political power bodies, academic institutions and research institutions and society in general — in intense collective work. We're not deluded! There's a lot to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u9	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u10	I'm done now, Mr. President. Of course, it is necessary to involve the younger ones and an increasing number of researchers and scholars, who not only from Barrancos and the Alentejo, in this effort to affirm the ravine and other dialects and minority languages. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PAN Parliamentary Group welcomes these two initiatives, which are part of the appreciation of the cultural diversity of our country, in particular of the linguistic heritage, so rich and diverse, that this is an example of the baranque dialect. For the NAP, it is essential to provide the populations with equal conditions for access to culture, taking into account the interior territories that are further away from the large urban centres. In the concrete case of the village of Barrancos, its image in our country, and even internationally, was marked, from 1997 onwards, by the practice of traditions that we cannot and should not follow. It is the example of bulls of death, a cruel and anachronistic practice that has merited the wide repudiation of society. at the same time, local power has acted to the detriment of other community festivals that are still preserved in the region of Barrancos, but that are at risk of disappearing. For example, I speak of the community traditions associated with Carnival, Easter, Christmas or other festive events, not to mention the valuable historical heritage, such as traditional crafts, important landscape wealth and diverse wildlife and flora of Barrancos, an area of the country where several protected species are included. Barrancos has, in fact, a unique identity that is reflected in the baranque dialect, but also in other ancient manifestations that deserve to be valued, and must be left behind those who did not follow the civilizational becoming, in particular the anachronic tradition of killing animals in a public square. It is important to change this image that was created by Barrancos, valuing other aspects of its unique identity, such as cultural, historical and environmental heritage. in this sense, the NAP recognizes the baranque dialect as a unique cultural value and accompanies these initiatives in order to promote its preservation and to avoid its disappearance. But here we remember something that is fundamental to preserving this dialect and to preserve the community way of life: people. And people have not set themselves in and Barrancos, unfortunately, is also one of these examples. The latest Census indicates that Barrancos has lost almost 22% of its population in the last 10 years, that is, Barrancos has become the Portuguese municipality that most people have lost since 2011. Barrancos has lost population since 1950, and the growing ageing of the population is evident, as is the case in the overwhelming majority of our country. There is no ravine that resists, as long as the council continues to lose population in this way. There is no internal resistance, as long as people continue to be deprived of access to absolutely essential public services, such as access to employment, accessibility, public transport, investment in the electricity grid so that the population will not be left to the dark for long hours, several times a day, as is still the case in Barrancos and in many regions of Portugal due to lack of investment in the network. That is why it is of no use to try to preserve the ravine dialect if we cannot fix people. The NAP will, of course, follow these two initiatives, but we warn that there is a need not only for civilizational evolution, but also for a reduction in regional asymmetries, which is still to be achieved. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u13	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing two legislative initiatives, one from the PS and the other from the CFP, both with the aim of establishing on the legal level, on the one hand, the recognition of the ravine, and, on the other, the adoption of public policies with a view to protecting, promoting and valuing the ravine. In anticipation, I would like to say that the Greens follow with sympathy the purposes and objectives of the projects now under discussion, since we greatly value our linguistic diversity and, therefore, as we did in the past, we will, in these terms, follow all initiatives that aim to establish the recognition of our linguistic heritage, a heritage that is important not only to recognize how to preserve, value and disseminate and which, in fact, represents an identifying element of the immaterial heritage of the populations. As the Director-General of UNESCO in the International Year of Languages pointed out very well in 2008, « linguistic diversity is one of the main guarantees of cultural diversity(...) », « contributes to sustainable development, strengthens dialogue, social cohesion and peace » and « with language peoples build, understand and express their emotions, intentions, values, notions and practices ». And now we say: if we come to the 21st century and in Barrancos if we speak of barrancos, it is up to us to ensure their survival for the future, which, of course, requires their legal recognition, but also the adoption of measures capable of preserving and valuing. Says who knows that its origin is most likely linked to the permanence, which comes from the Middle Ages, from people from Castela, around the Castle of Noudar. But as important as its origin is to see that we have arrived today, in an increasingly global world, and the ravine continues to be spoken in Barrancos. On the other hand, the singularity of this dialect has long deserved the attention of several researchers, which has already resulted in an important collection of scientific works both at the level of its characterization and its evolution. From this universe stands out the work of José Leite de Vasconcelos or the works of María Victoria Navas, Universidade Complutense de Madrid, and more recently also the research works of Joseph Clements, Patrícia Amaral and Ana Luís. Despite the different readings that the classification of the ravine might deserve by the scientific community, the truth is that there is a common denominator among all researchers, which is the finding of a cultural, immaterial and identity manifestation that requires recognition, protection and value. In conclusion, I would like to leave a note of recognition of the work and the efforts that the city of Barrancos has been making over the years and which, of course, has contributed a great deal to the failure of the ravine to globalize and reach our day. For us, the ravine will be valued, protected and we will therefore vote in favour of the two legislative initiatives under discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u15	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills now under discussion have two merits that we recognize. The first merit is to identify our country and our people with the diversity that makes them strong. That idea that some have a purity, an almost linear existence of a people is disassembled by reality. We are pleral, we are multicultural and that is what has made us strong over the years. I believe that this merit is recognizable in the two initiatives that are now under discussion. The second merit that should be recognised is that of the attempt to protect the ravine, which has a historical legacy and a claim in the people of Barrancos, in their maintenance and promotion. And, like everything that is memory and everything that is identity must be valued, these bills have the merit of taking this step and of becoming the force of a law that obliges the government to act on this matter. The Left Block hopes that these two merits will not be accompanied by a huge demerit, which may possibly haunt these initiatives. It is that so many times, unfortunately so many times, the memory and identity that comes from the past and the promises for the future serve only and only for people to forget about the present. And not by any chance, this kind of initiative always comes up on the eve of any election, in this case on the eve of the autarchic elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u18	We hope that these bills will not be promised to Barrancos so that the people will forget about the difficulties of accessibility, the fragility of their living conditions, access to public services. We hope that, in practice, it will not be the ravine now to be played merely and only for gains in the elections. We will give our vote of doubt, the vote valued by the two merits that I initially recognised, because we believe that the barrancos and the people of Barrancos deserve this confidence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u19	You have the floor to close the debate, Mr Pedro do Carmo, of the PS. It has 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the approval of this bill that defends and promotes the ravine, we stress that it is not possible to rewrite History as regards the abandonment and isolation of that territory by the Portuguese State over decades, but we began to write the future. We say we want to defend the ravine as a brand of linguistic identity of a national community and heritage. We say that we want to go along a sustained path of valuing the interior territories and their realities, either by defending identity or by generating new development opportunities. No, sir. Members, it is not a 'forgive me', it is a sign of commitment to the ravines and their language, different, unique and associated with unique experiences. This is all that must be protected and valued by a State open to diversity as a democratic brand of April and a point of affirmation of a strategic vision. The Portuguese State, through the Assembly of the Republic, thus joins the work that the municipality has been carrying out in safeguarding the ravine, especially in the last four years, of what is well proved, with some organizations, and will certainly continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u21	Hey, man! ...it's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u22	Step is taken. The step-by-step agreement with the past must continue. Barrancos deserves this and much more. There is only future with respect for memory and identity. This is how it is in the country, so it is in the communities of Lower Alentejo. The rural world, the interior, communities and territories need these signs, with consequence and sustainability, to generate new opportunities. Much has been said here, but little or nothing has been done. I cannot finish without quoting and recalling the memory of Jorge Sampaio. Jorge Sampaio, visiting the municipality of Barrancos, in 2002, said : « We must preserve traditions and realize the most distant peoples. » I say: we must respect all traditions, not just those we like. That's what we started doing here today. That's what the ravines have been doing for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u23	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u24	Allow me only to apologize for not using any expression in a barranquillo—and I could use many, because I am very often in Barrancos—but I did it on purpose. I did it to invite you all to visit Barrancos and visit the hospitality of a people and see a living language every day. Thank you all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u25	At the end of this point, Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to make several announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. I begin by announcing the withdrawal by the proposer of draft resolution No 510 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), which was in 8. I now announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill No 112 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 5. the Commission. Law No. 927 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 928 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 929 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 14. the Commission, 930 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 931 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 932 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 933 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 934 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 935 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 936 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 6. the Commission. I then refer to Resolution Projects Nos 1441 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR), 1442 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1443 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1444 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1445 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1446 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAN ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u27	We are now entering the second point of the agenda, which refers to the general discussion of Bill No. 516 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Transfers the seat of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Entity for Political Accounts to the City of Coimbra, making the tenth amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law on the organisation, operation and procedure of the Constitutional Court ), the third amendment to the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, approved by Law No 13 / 2002 of 19 February, and the third amendment to Organic Law No 2 / 2005 of 10 January ( Law on the organisation and operation of the Entity for Political Accounts and Finance ). I begin by giving the floor to Mr António Maló de Abreu of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin as did, one day, Almeida Garrett in the Hall of the Great Acts of the University of Coimbra, where decisive episodes of the History of Portugal, as was the proclamation of D. João I in 1385 — « ergo late the voice, but ergo -la libre», because, appreciated by the contemporarys, admired -on the comings of successive generations, from Eça to Saramago, from Antonio Nobre the Person, from Reggio to so many others. Also here and now they question themselves and question men, history, awareness of public responsibility, appeal to the intelligence committed to the fate and courage to face immobilist prejudices or small interests. Exactly one year ago, in September 2020, the PSD presented the bill now under discussion, considering that the judicial organization cannot stand aside from a more comprehensive process of decentralization lato sensu. Portugal is recognised as one of the countries of the European Union with the most centralised and centralizing profile. So, too, the headquarters of the generality of our high courts are in the capital. But several and important are the examples of geographical distances between the headquarters of political power and the headquarters of high judicial bodies. We will give a sign, an important step and a Guinea of inverse sense to the concentrationary saga if the House of Democracy approves this initiative and transfers to Coimbra the headquarters of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. [[PSD applause.]] It is more than time to open the way and look at the national territory as a whole, because there is no minor or indispensable ground. We have here the opportunity to move from words to acts and to honor the word given—also and no less important. For this relocation, the choice of Coimbra is obvious, because it brings together odd conditions: by its geographical position, by its indelible characteristic of University City and by the recognized relevance, at the national and international level, in the teaching of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u30	But allow me a warning to navigation: it is also essential that deep coimbra does not sit in wait to act, for governmental visits to demand, for crises to react. That it is affirmative and authentic, without fear of controversy and embraces the great causes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u32	That it does not give way to the politically 'accounting' and does not change what it rightly deserves for honor. It was always this way in this city where irreverence exercises freedom, marked by memories, songs, echoes of new struggles and challenges. Those who defend national cohesion can only support this initiative. One can and should decentralise, decentralise and relocate with irrevocable advantages for the country, provided that we know how to do it without becoming an embarrassment, that is, without increasing public spending, without inflationing the number of employees and without generating bureaucracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u33	Those who advocate balanced development of the country can only be in favour of this initiative. We have a proposal and we have a political will, because what is lacking is the strength of the convictions that lead and break, if necessary, when the country maintains a centralizing and macro-cephalic culture, in which power, based in the capital and to whom it is delivered, does not accept to lose the monopoly of all to promise favors for the exchange of supplications and support, even though ashamed and on occasion. And do not say that this relocation represents an institutional contempt for these high courts. As Mr. Prof. Manuel da Costa Andrade pointed out, in a statement of vote, of defeated but unconvinced, that he razed and embarrassed the opinion of the Constitutional Court, that he was President at the time, «it is clear that any place on the national floor—in which he lives and works at the rhythm of the same language, is watered with sweat and blood the same land in search of bread, pays tribute and worship to the same patrian hands and makes the same history—has the same dignity and legitimacy to receive one of the most sublime institutions of the rule of law». [[PSD applause.]] In the same sense, the statement by Mrs. Judiciary, Dr. Mariana Canotilho. The PSD — and I think all of us — could not agree any more. The approval of this bill does not conflict, however, with the institutional prestige of these courts. On the contrary, it reinforces it, giving them a new centrality that will distinguish them, by positive, from the other higher courts. And it will not be practical constraints that will prevent it. All the more, and of course, the PSD will be available to hear, consensualize and change what is to be corrected in the field of specialty, but without ever abdicating from the principles or leaving behind what is nuclear. This is time, this is time here we assume that everyone fits what we best have, and not just what remains or rises. This is an imminent political option that is solely for the legislative power. We are faced with a duty of hope in the men of today's politics, while hope does not despair. The change was never the work of a soloist nor was it ever easy, but demands the conquest by the lucid effort of all. There is therefore an exit from this centralist alley, apparently with no way out in sight.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u34	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u35	Miguel Torga, a whole trasmontano, wrote to us: "Recommence.../ If you can/ Without anguish/ And without hurry. / [...] Until you reach/ Do not rest». And that is all I ask of you when I have asked for the word: word of honour. [[PSD applause, having PSD deputy Ana Miguel dos Santos applauded standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u36	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some time ago, the Minister of Territorial Cohesion said that, as much as his Ministry "do the pine and go to order" with the other ministries, it is very difficult to relocate services. That is, there is a ministry that bothers itself with excessive centralism and the other 18 ministries drag their feet because, for them, the Country is Lisbon and the rest is landscape. This is not acceptable for those who, like us, consider decentralization a priority. It is clear that the relocation of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Administrative Court and the Political Accounts and Financing Entity (ECFP) is not a decentralisation, i.e. the PSD bill, if approved, will not lead to any real transfer of powers or competences.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u38	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u39	Still, the relocation of these organs is a step in the right direction, the way to approach, also physically, the decisions of the people and to stop feeding the Lisbon macrocephaly. But it is appropriate not to use this relocation as a pretext for the Socialist Party's Government to continue delaying the allocation of funds from the Constitutional Court so that the Transparency Entity will finally see the light of the day, or for the ECFP to be able to perform its functions effectively, or until there is finally a secretary in the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, which is waiting for decision, staffing and staff — imagine! - 18 years. Finally, let it be clear that, for the Liberal Initiative, using false arguments or particular convenience to maintain these organs in Lisbon is simply—for those who use these arguments and to use a word that everyone will understand—disgusting.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u40	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u41	Mr. President, good afternoon to all. Today, the PSD could have followed the example of the NAP and took advantage of its schedule to discuss shortcomings in the premises of the Constitutional Court, which are of such order that only one year ago did not even ensure wi-fi coverage throughout the building. Or, then, take advantage to propose a legal amendment so that the Entity of Accounts will be able to fix its employees in its staff framework, or even to see an agenda of a debate with the Government to explain the cut of EUR 264 million in the expenditure of the sovereign bodies in 2022, provided for in the Stability Programme. In today's debate, however, the PSD wanted to move away from the essential and remain by the accessory, in a discussion of pure cosmetics and a charm for local elections: the relocation of the Constitutional Court, the Accounts Entity and the Supreme Administrative Court of Lisbon to Coimbra. In the background, the PSD, following the good tradition of the central block, which we have also seen as regards Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority), wants to make a decentralisation by decree, as if there were a magic wand for the problems of territorial cohesion and depopulation of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u42	So how do you do it?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u43	However, this PSD proposal is not effective in achieving the territorial cohesion objectives it says it wants to achieve. To prove it, it is sufficient to look at the example of the Transparency Entity which, having had its headquarters decentralized, also by decree and also by proposal of the PSD, to this day and two years of its creation in the law, continues to exist in practice. This proposal from the PSD is also inconsistent. Let's see: he says he wants a decentralization and he opts for a model that centralizes everything in Coimbra ; he says he centralizes in Coimbra, due to the representativeness of law teaching in the city, but then he leaves in Lisbon the seat of the Supreme Court of Justice. As if that were not enough in the State budget for 2020, the PSD votes in favour of a strengthening of funds for improving the facilities of the Constitutional Court, but now it is said that this investment has not helped because it is ultimately to change everything to Coimbra. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of these inconsistencies? Finally, this PSD proposal is also irresponsible, since it does not present any estimate of the costs of the transfer of these facilities, which is strange coming from a party which, whenever it comes to ensuring the strengthening of social rights, does not hesitate to ask for accounts on the cost of these proposals. Only in the case of the Constitutional Court are we talking about the need to arrange facilities consistent with the dignity of the body, to transfer and reorganize a library with thousands of books and an area of 262, 5 m2 and to transfer or convert 99 people, between judges, judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, members of support offices and other officials. How much is this charming operation for the local elections of Coimbra?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u44	The diploma is one year old!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u45	Ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, do not count on the NAP for electoral numbers without any planning and organization! This is not how we will achieve a proper functioning of such institutions, which, for the most part, are a guarantor of the democratic rule of law. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u46	I give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza of the Left Block for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted the PSD to see the debate on decentralization and the conditions of administration of justice in Coimbra run in the full campaign. Coimbra deserved more consideration of the PSD than its use for electoralist tricks!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u48	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u49	contrary to what some say, it is not the transfer of the Constitutional Court to Coimbra that is despicable, it is the electoralist trick that despises this measure...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u51	...and the decentralization of public authorities as well. As a mere electoral play, this is the worst contribution the PSD can make to this cause. But, against this small PSD strategy, we want to discuss these two issues seriously, as they deserve. I then begin by the conditions of the administration of justice in Coimbra. The Palace of Justice is set up in an old college, initially built in 1543 and adapted in 1928. The urgency of the construction of a new Palace of Justice in Coimbra has more than five decades. Each of these more than 50 years witnessed the overcrowding of the available spaces with immense meanwhile created valences, civil sections in a state of severe degradation, location of criminal judgments and execution of penalties without any joint, disrespect for the rights of access of persons with disabilities, working conditions of judges, lawyers and employees far below the minimum requirement. On the other hand, because of this failure to respond to the old Palace of Justice, he was witnessing a dispersion of courts and judicial services through the urban mesh of Coimbra : civil judges in the tower Arnado, Court of Labour in Cells, Public Ministry and Criminal Instruction Court on Sofia Street, Administrative Court in an old post building, etc. etc. All this with high costs for the public record, charged with the payment of very high value incomes by the occupation of these various buildings. Government after government, urgency was always urgent and so continues — everything on the paper. The question is the following: Does the PSD provide any answer to the degradation of the conditions of the administration of justice in Coimbra? No, don't bring it. It announces, with a pump, an imaginary Karlsruhe, while maintaining the palace of concrete justice in concrete Coimbra, to be the emblem of a decrepit and unworthy judicial park of a 21st century democracy. Only fat fire to do an electoral favor to the right coalition in Coimbra! The installation of the Constitutional Court in Coimbra is therefore risky to have the same consistency as the installation of the State Secretariat of the Valorization of the Interior in Bragança. The appreciation gained in realisation and robustness with the installation of a government office in Bragança? Don't! They will say it is symbolic, a sign, as Mr Maló de Abreu recently called it. We are wrong when the effective decentralization is, after all, strictly symbolic, made only by signs! The serious fight against territorial inequality and living conditions is not made of symbols when symbols serve to disguise policies to accentuate this inequality and to degrade these conditions, such as the policies that the PSD put into practice when it was government. To think that the problems of the territory are fighting by moving one court from one city to another is to play with those who feel, every day in their lives, problems in an unequal territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u52	That's a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u53	It does not combat the inequality of the territory without ensuring the lack of day care or the position of the CTT ( Correios e Telecommunications de Portugal ), without halting the increase in the price of the houses that began on the coast and has already spread to the interior without rail, without transports that bind the country. On these debates, the PSD says nothing and that is natural. It is in them that the Left Block is committed, because our commitment is with serious answers. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Hey! We want serious decentralization and therefore we support the effective fulfilment of social rights and the presence of public services throughout the territory. We really like Coimbra and therefore do not use it for electoral tricks. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u54	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents to us today a proposal for the transfer of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Entity of Accounts to the city of Coimbra. If it is true that, in theory, the Greens have nothing to do with the transfer of these institutions, it is also true that we have gone to this debate with doubts about the sense of vote. Our hope was that, during the introduction of the bill, the PSD would clarify some points on the purposes and foundations of this proposal. But he didn't. Let's get to the facts. We look at the explanatory statement of the bill and, with some surprise, we realize that the PSD is concerned about the approach of the institutions to the citizens, but then we remember the amount of public services that the PSD closed during the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas and we are left in doubt. In fact, throughout the country, numerous health services, schools, posts of GNR ( Republican National Guard), decentralized services of the Ministry of Agriculture, including rural extension services, among other public services that required populations and that kept the institutions so close to the citizens that the PSD is now talking about. This is no longer to speak of the biggest blow in the history of local power: the extinction of phregueses promoted by the PSD and the CDS, which, after sitting down, extinguished more than 1000 fregueses, with severe damage to the populations, especially to the populations of the interior, including the populations of Coimbra. The PSD then says, in the same explanatory statement, that the balanced development of the various territories also involves an adequate distribution of the judicial map. So the PSD, which has closed dozens of courts throughout the country, is now talking about an appropriate distribution of the judicial map and the approximation of institutions to citizens? You don't understand, because, in fact, it's not easy to understand either! The PSD which closes public services—and many, including courts—and which dispenses thousands of public administration workers, leaving services without professionals, is the same PSD that has now shown great concern about the need to bring institutions closer to citizens. It's not easy to understand! On the other hand, there is another element of which we can escape, and that is exactly what we expected the PSD to clarify in this debate. One of the reasons why the PSD presented this proposal concerns its contribution to the independence of the judiciary in relation to political power. These are the words of the president of the PSD, who in fact are in line with the text of the explanatory statement accompanying the bill. But we do not understand how and how the transfer of these institutions from Lisbon to Coimbra helps to strengthen the independence of the judiciary in relation to political power. And, as the PSD has not yet been able to explain, we will wait until the end of the debate to see if the PSD helps us to understand the scope of this contribution to the independence of the judiciary from the political power, passing the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Administrative Court of Lisbon to Coimbra. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u56	For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, just a brief point: my party strongly defends decentralization, believes that it is essential to decentralise, decentralise, but believes that this is a matter of processes and not of catching up on small blocks of the state and spreading them to the country. We must start with the principle, and the principle is to start by changing processes. It is that taking it to the Constitutional Court and taking it to Coimbra will only serve to ensure that the real amendments that need to be made are not. We've spent tens of years centralizing or keeping the country centralized. The time has come to take real measures of decentralization and deconcentration. However, it seems to us that this is not a measure conducive to this decentralization and to this deconcentration.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u58	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal that the PSD brings here is a very bad service to the cause it says to defend, which is that of decentralization. It is true what Mr Maló de Abreu said in the rostrum, that Portugal is a centralist country. But, I wonder, does the PSD have no responsibilities in centralizing the country? Oh, my God! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u60	Don't you? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] The biggest opponent in the creation of administrative regions was the PSD, which sabotaged all and any process of creating administrative regions. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u61	What now? Did we cross our arms?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u62	It was the party responsible for the extinction of dozens of courts, for the closure of dozens of courts in the country outside, not of central courts, but of the courts to which the citizens resort. It is not to the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Administrative Court that citizens in their day-to-day need to appeal, but to the courts that you have closed and that it was necessary to reopen in 2015 after you have been removed from government. These courts, yes, need populations. Those are the ones we need! [[PCP applause.]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u63	You, who have closed, who have extinguished hundreds of parishioners by this country outside, who are responsible for the closure of hundreds of schools, for the closure of health extensions, for the closure of post stations? Oh, my God! You are responsible for the greatest centralism actions this country has known, are responsible for the desertification situation in the interior of the country. And now they appear here, as an arrears of decentralisation, and « take the carton» the magical initiative of decentralization of the country, which is to transfer the headquarters of two courts, with national jurisdiction, from Lisbon to Coimbra. Well, this proposal has all the advantages of demagogy. That is to say, you make this proposal and who dares to say that this is a non-meaning and credible proposal because you will say: « what? Oh, my God! Would it not make sense that Coimbra could be the seat of the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Administrative Court? Oh, my God! » Of course you do! It is obvious that Coimbra — as Professor Costa Andrade points out in his statement of vote — would have dignity, like any locality in the national territory, to host the seat of a court with competence of national jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u64	So, what's the problem? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u65	Therefore, it is very easy for you to say: "Well, if you are against this proposal — centralist villains! - They're against Coimbra! Do not keep on seeking. ” But then we can consider the following: I came here now and, if this, autarchically, I do, in accordance with my priorities for autarchic struggle, suggests that the headquarters of the Supreme Court of Justice should leave the Land of Peace — this symbol of centralism — for Bragança. And he said, as you say, "well, this must be completed at the end of 2022." And then you asked me this: « Well, then, but where does it go? To be ready in 2022, do you have the key there? Is 2022 from here 15 months... do you know where he's gonna put it? And how much would that cost? What would that imply? What would you do to the noble hall of the Supreme Court of Justice? Was it going to be a charming hotel? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] That is to say, on the specific issues that this proposal would involve, you say « zero », absolutely « zero », because that is not what you are interested in. You are not interested in making a proposal or decentralisation of the country — which has always been averse — or a serious proposal, saying: "Well, there are these facilities here. It's possible to put this court there. Concerning the Ratton Palace, it is not a charming hotel or local accommodation, but we will install... » Now, you say nothing strictly about this, because they do not actually believe in the credibility of your proposal, which is not really a credible proposal, has only one objective, which is to try, try, try, in despair of cause, win half a dozen votes in Coimbra. This is your only goal. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u66	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, you eventually turn what could be a serious proposal into a mere 'depressive treasure' for the elections of the next week. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u68	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to stress, as has already been mentioned by several speakers, that there is indeed a debate that the country has to do on decentralization, deconcentration and relocation. This, in other words, is only about the relocation of a higher court. Let us therefore be clear as to what we propose and not adopt a revolutionary, transformative spirit, because we are transferring the headquarters of two higher courts. Let us look at things with the calm, the weighting and the scale of what is proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u70	It's 50 years from here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u71	However, the fact that it has a smaller scale than a transforming decentralization does not mean that it is done irreflectively, improvisedly and not sufficiently structured.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u72	Let's vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u73	And, as has already been pointed out, the PSD is perhaps the worst enemy of the eventual displacement of the Constitutional Court to Coimbra, because what it presents, a year after it has entered the bill that we discussed here today, is exactly the same as a year ago. There is no study, there is no cost/benefit analysis, there is no answer about what happens to workers and employees who today serve in the judicial secretaries of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, whose lives, obviously, depend on this element, and whose experience and ability to guide the processes they are there is absolutely indispensable so that two higher courts, fundamental to the Portuguese legal order, can continue to function. So build the house down the roof. It points to a goal, in a way that is not even realistic in the dates it proposes, in the absence of data on location, and looks with this—of course, in the worst possible context, in terms of timetable — to have some cause gain for electoral refreshments that should preserve both the dignity of the courts, which is putting on the table, or the dignity of the co-members, who, of course, want to deceive with this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, neither do we follow the argument that, in any way, this would be prestigious for any of the institutions, since it would be extraordinarily prestigious for any of them. Coimbra has already been the capital of the kingdom. In fact, for many years it was the place where there was the monopoly of legal education in Portugal, this monopoly, which, at some point, also broke, from 1913 onwards, with the opening of a second faculty of law. Therefore, regarding this aspect, Coimbra meets all these requirements, of dignity, of solemnity, so they would be very well installed in Coimbra, in this sense and in this sense. But for that, something else was needed. We had to do the housework, which the PSD didn't do. It was necessary to have brought more to the debate than, indeed, what is here. In the time we still have, I think we can go into two or three additional questions about the content of the courts and the service they want to transfer. I shall focus not so much on the Constitutional Court, which we have discussed a lot about, but on the Political Accounts and Financing Entity and also on the Supreme Administrative Court, which also include this proposal. It is curious that the Political Accounts and Financing Entity, which controls the campaigns and the financing of political parties, is located in Lisbon, perhaps for good reason. It is found here, because it depends on the Constitutional Court. But perhaps we should think about how it makes sense that its headquarters is 200 km away from the overwhelming majority of the political parties' headquarters that it has to monitor. We know that the Liberal Initiative is based in Porto, but it is an exception. And, being an exception, I think that, in order to judge the best way of being able to monitor the accounts and the activity of the parties, it is certainly not sending the person responsible for this supervision to a place 200 km away, where of course this task would be most poorly performed. Therefore, in this respect, with regard to this part of the proposal, it will not deserve our support either now or afterwards. As for the Supreme Administrative Court, the opinion of the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ( CSTAF ) — which had undergone a technical reading, did not make inadequate considerations in this debate, was quite rigorous in what he underlined — again placed his finger on the wound, exactly where it should be placed. What is the main problem of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction at the moment? It is the change of the premises of the Supreme Administrative Court, which has until recently been re-adapted and where it has the capacity to perform its functions as a court of appeal, a tribunal of referral and a court of reference to questions in which there is no direct interaction with the citizens, in which the question of proximity is not raised, and in which, contrary to others, they defend fundamental rights and may potentially have this problem, clearly, is intended for a link to the services whose administrative acts he has to know and must challenge, which are those of the central administration, those of the ministries, are those practiced by the Council of Ministers, that - let alone! — are in Lisbon. Therefore, in this debate, we must be serious at two levels: by preparing housework in greater detail, but also by recognizing that countries have capital — and have capital for one reason — and that some services must be in the capital. It doesn't mean that everyone has to be. This does not mean that other countries do not demonstrate that higher courts can be found elsewhere. Not at all! It just means that, if we want to make a difference, we have to properly justify this position, and not go after the next day's gain, the immediate gain, the attempt to settle a few more votes, because, yes, this is certainly not the court, neither democracy, nor the city of Coimbra. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u74	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I want to say, firstly, that this proposal which the PSD brings to us today is a proposal which, in fact, has a certain symbolic character in itself, but is not strictly symbolic, because, if it were only symbolic, there would not be some of the difficulties that have been raised here and which could exist, because, effectively, these courts would go to Coimbra and, therefore, it would not be just an idea or a change of name, so to speak. Secondly, I would like to say that, in our reading and in my view, it is not in fact a question of decentralisation, in the sense and in the technical-legal term of the matter, or even of deconcentration, which is basically an idea of the distribution of national institutions by the country, of the value of other cities in the country, clearly in my view. So this is a relocation, more than anything else. From this point of view, these proposals always find resistance and always find criticism, from the point of view of potential relocations. We know that this is and has always been so, with hospitals, for example, even within the same city, when they change places. This was the case when the Government of Pedro Santana Lopes, in a PSD / CDS government at the time, sought the placement of several institutions, including the Government itself, at various points in the country. These proposals always find various types of resistance. But the criticism arguments we have heard here on the left, in my opinion, are somewhat absurd, because they are based on two or three very simple ideas. The first idea to try to attack this proposal is the one that is to mix matters up.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u76	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u77	That is what we have come to do, for example, by Mr António Filipe, who said « then, you do not want regionalization, now you want the Constitutional Court in Coimbra? Oh, my God! » As if one thing had to do with the other, as if I could not be—and I am! — against regionalisation and municipalist and defender of decentralization! It's got nothing to do with it! Baraling matters is not a way to discuss what's on the table!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u79	And what is on the table is just the proposal that the Supreme Administrative Court, the Constitutional Court and the Entity of Political Accounts and Financing move to Coimbra. This is what's on the table, and no more than this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u80	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u81	The other technique, which was no longer that of Mr António Filipe, but that of Mr José Manuel Pureza, is a different technique, which is to say: « As long as the country is not all perfect, this cannot be done». [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] In other words, « while there is someone who does not have access to this or that, he cannot; while there is some difficulty, he cannot». That way, nothing is done, never! You never do anything! Instead of solving the problems one by one, we are always waiting for the great utopia, the great perfect country, which will never happen. And we have to ask, even, who says this here, "then, but how can it be? » For example, you criticized the judicial map. You say: "There must be a court everywhere! In other words, even where there were no cases or cases, «there had to be a court there, there was a fundamental need». « That has to be! », it was said here. But the Constitutional Court for Coimbra... « Ah, that, no! That, no way! That can't really be! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]] These are arguments which do not take up, as I do not, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, your argument. The honourable Member tells us a number of things here. I was listening to him and I was willing to ask him a question, and I am going to ask him: Is Infarmed already in port or was it just something sporadic, meaningless and purposeless? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I also understand the debate on the time of this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u82	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to your speaking time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u83	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, I understand the debate about the time of the proposal, which would always fall at some point, but which actually falls at the time of the vote. I understand that discussion. Now, does the Socialist Party come to talk to us in electoralism? Oh, my God! ... Mr. Prime Minister was in Coimbra announcing a motherhood that should have been done for decades! It's surreal! It's unacceptable! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Obviously, we consider the proposal, but we will follow the proposal made by the PSD. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u84	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, I know you want to use the 3 seconds you still have to intervene, but I ask you not to significantly exceed that time. Please, sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, responding to Mr Telmo Correia, the Socialist Party and the Government, looking into reality, can learn from things that go less well. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u86	It's too bad the PSD and CDS can't do the same exercise. In fact, it is difficult to transfer a root service to another place one day, and that is what is proposed here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u87	Leave everything here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u88	Creating and establishing a specific service in a given location is additionally viable. I transferred it, as we know...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u89	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u90	I will finish, Mr. President. In fact, the question that you are asking is precisely that, and that is the demonstration of the reason why the matter lacks study and time, and not last-minute electoralism, Mr President! This is what despices and does not solve the problem: the excess of electoralism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u91	Mr António Maló de Abreu, speaking again, was the closure of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have listened carefully to the interventions that have been made. They said: "We are absolutely in favour of decentralization. We are in favour of deconcentration. We're in favour of relocation. Your problem is that they really don't want to. They're verbal, but they don't, they don't go from words to acts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u93	You've done so much!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u94	They forget, not Coimbra, but forget about Guimarães, forget about Viana do Castelo, forget about Guarda, forget about Portalegre, forget about Aveiro, forget about the Country. They're in Lisbon! [[PSD applause.]] The President of the Social Democratic Party, many years ago, I repeat, many years ago, defends the transfer of the Constitutional Court to Coimbra. We submitted this proposal 365 days ago, a year ago. Only today, unfortunately, is discussed. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, I think you know who's sitting here... [[At this moment, the speaker displayed an article from the Express newspaper, with a photograph from the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.]] It is Dr. António Costa, he is the Prime Minister, who told the Express on 11 August 2018 « (...) I think it was good that other institutions could be based in other cities. They often ask me why the seat of the Constitutional Court is not in Coimbra, and I myself wonder. That's a good example. I don't see any reason why that doesn't happen. It's an example, it's a service that can easily move. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] Your problem, sir, is your inconsistency. Your problem, sir, is your lack of credibility. Your problem, Mr President, is your lack of courage, because they don't say what they think, they don't do what they say and they should do it. It is unfortunate that I see the Socialist Party outside this discussion, not that of the Constitutional Court for Coimbra, but that of decentralization, deconcentration and relocation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u95	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u96	Let's go to the debate, in the field of specialty! Have the courage to do it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u97	We now move on to the third point of our agenda to appreciate, in general, the Bill No. 148 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Model of financing hospitals integrated into the National Health Service. In order to start the debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current Health Bases Act establishes in Base 4 that it is the basis of health policy, and I quote, « the management of available resources according to criteria of effectiveness, efficiency and quality ». In the same vein, the Base 20 of our Health Bases Act determines that one of the principles whereby the National Health Service ( National Health Service ) should base its work is “financial sustainability, with a view to effective, efficient and quality use of available public resources”. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the fact that the SNS has its grave and chronically compromised sustainability: on the one hand, since 2013 at least, it has a deficit annually, and the State budget for 2021 had, even before beginning, a negative value of EUR 89 million; on the other hand, debt to suppliers — which in July this year exceeded EUR 1000 million — is a recurring problem, with negative consequences for such effective and efficient management of public resources. None of this is neutral for the system and all of this has an impact on citizens' access to a quality and clinically useful SNS. Moreover, if, by the end of 2019, the SNS had already shown many weaknesses, the COVID-19 pandemic has not only exposed these limitations, as in many cases aggravated them. With all the care activities to be carried out — consultations, surgeries, rehabilitation and complementary means of diagnosis and therapy — it becomes even more important to find more efficient mechanisms for financing and managing hospitals integrated into the SNS. If this is not done, we will continue to inject money, which is sufficient to ensure the viability of the Budget, but which will not fully translate into earnings for users and in working conditions for health professionals. The SNS, being paid by the taxpayers, must be financed efficiently, depending on the health gains obtained and not on the number of acts produced or prices fixed administratively. The SNS needs to encapsulate health professionals because they are paid and responsible, not because they are forced to stay. It seems to us that this is a particularly timely time to look at the SNS beyond the State budget, in addition to each capital injection to pay off the debt, changing a revenue that has not worked. In the CDS, we have defended another model of hospital funding, based on health gains. in this sense, we presented, in the previous legislation, the Bill No. 998 / XIII / 4. a, that was down here. We maintain the same conviction about this idea and therefore we maintain this proposal, which has already been proved in other countries and, in practice, in Portugal, in some private hospitals. Funding based on health gains places the patient at the center, instead of procedures, and creates organizational incentives to maximize the result achieved for the benefit of the patient concerned and not of a specific hospital service. This implies reorganization, coordination and multidisciplinary work, in a model that precipitates and also penalizes hospitals, based on the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of results, after all, the premises established in the Health Bases Act. It involves compiling and working indicators, which will require a broad consensus platform, from which the gains obtained can be assessed. For example, data on hospitalization rates and their duration, on medication and prescribed treatments, on reintroductions, on hospital infections, on mortality rates are, all of them, data that exist and have been analyzed from the point of view of clinical quality, which is essential, but of which there is a lack of consequences, from the point of view of hospital management and subsequent funding. For the CDS, this is a particularly timely time to promote the gradual application of this alternative financing model, precisely because we live in a scenario of limited public resources and high demand pressure.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u99	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u100	I will finish, Mr. President. This is a proposal that guarantees the criteria of effectiveness, efficiency and quality, as laid down in the Basics Act, as well as an instrumental step towards the realization of the best health care in time and time for all citizens. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u101	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is consensual that access to health care is a basic right, but there are deep differences on how to ensure that right. The healthy ideological differences between those who advocate various solutions cannot, however, constitute a license to ignore the example of systems that have shown in other countries to give a much better response to those who need health care. Ignoring these examples sometimes has dramatic consequences on people's real life. The CDS bill here under discussion has virtues, because the reform of the funding of the health system is essential for improving its efficiency. But you need to go further. Reforming the financing of the system without profoundly altering its architecture is to stay in the middle of the bridge. Even so, we will vote in favour of this bill, hoping to have an opportunity to introduce improvements, in the sense of greater decentralization and a better choice of the indicators presented. As for the structural solution, this will go through the comprehensive and profound reform of the national health system, which the Liberal Initiative has already announced will present during this legislative session. The Portuguese deserve better health care than they do today, provided with quality and time, and deserve the freedom to choose who gives them such care. Enough of half solutions and remedies. The Portuguese deserve more than this.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u103	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The quality of health care and the services that provide these care is deeply related to the social and economic prosperity of a country. This health crisis that the country and the world have gone through has allowed us to perceive, in a very visible way, the impact that national health systems can have on the ability of adaptation, reorganization and resilience of territories and, above all, on the preservation of global health. The NAP therefore defends a robust National Health Service, capable of capturing and fixing qualified human resources and providing services of high technical, scientific and human demand. This is, and must be, a priority. We recall, in fact, that it was not as long as the Portuguese did not have access to the most basic health care, which had come true with the SNS. The right to health is undoubtedly an unquestionable right, which must be accessible to all and to all in good time. The emergence of COVID brought us that same evidence and the government invested more resources and resources in the SNS. But a political strategy in health cannot be summed up at critical times. Health must be a strategic political priority of any government, and cannot be underestimated in the face of other government decision-making sectors, because there is no economic wealth or social development without health. When we talk about investment in the SNS, we have to see the problem as a whole: the need for more and better investment, the capture and fixing of qualified human resources, the internalization of responses and services and the appreciation of health professionals. But we also speak of an area that the NAP has always defended and brought the debate: prevention. In our perspective, there is no effective management of SNS if you do not bet on prevention. Portugal continues to wager more remedial and rehabilitative health than preventive health, with which we could save many millions of euros on the public record and many years of life lost to the people. In fact, Portugal is one of the countries of Europe which spends less on preventive health care. In 2018, public and private expenditure on preventive health care in the European Union represented 2,8 % of total expenditure on health. However, in our country, this expenditure represented only 1,7 %. When, on average, 82 € per person in preventive care in the European Union, in Portugal, in the same year, you spend 32 € per citizen or citizen. This is a reality that needs to change, if we want the money invested in the SNS to be better used, with gains for all, until the sustainability of the SNS goes through more investment, but also for better investment. In fact, the study of the cost/effectiveness of interventions is an essential tool to ensure that the best clinical and financial options are taken. We know, for example, that when psychological interventions are implemented in health care, it is possible to save between 20% and 30% of costs, either because the number of consultations, psychopharmaceuticals and absences to work or because social costs are minimized. Despite the available evidence, however, we have seen an absolutely incomprehensible lack of planning and investment in prevention, opting for successive governments to save now to spend later.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u105	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the time remaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u106	I really am concluding, Mr President. In fact, we can only end by strengthening the importance of the National Health Service and that any solution has to go through an investment that not only values its professionals but also existing equipment in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u107	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents its bill and tries to justify it with a hypothetical case, which I will explain. If at hospital x a user is operated and is hospitalized more days, then this hospital x cannot receive the same as the hospital where the patient is hospitalized only during the clinically recommended time, without any complications. For the CDS — that is your proposal — the hospital x should be penalized and have a cut in its budget. The problem of hypothetical scenarios, and often the problem of theory, is that it ignores reality, and, in the case of the CDS, or ignores deliberately or then even ignores reality. But let us transpose this hypothetical scenario to the concrete of our country and to the various realities. For example, we speak of the hospital in Portalegre, which has great difficulty in attracting and hiring doctors. In fact, much of your service is guaranteed by doctors who are not from the hospital and many are not even specialists. Obviously, this has an impact on the numbers and objectives of this hospital, on the ability to carry out, for example, external consultations. However, the solution of the CDS would not be to invest or guarantee mechanisms to fix more professionals. Don't! It was past — that is the solution it proposes — to cut the budget to the hospital in Portalegre because it does not comply with the planned media.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u109	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u110	For one of the most depressed hospitals with more difficulties, the CDS proposal had the consequence of cutting the budget. Let us look at another concrete example of the reality of our country, the Amadora-Sintra hospital. This hospital had, until recently, an average of 45 busy beds, every day, with the so-called "social cases", that is, people with high clinics, but who have to stay in the hospital, because there is no response from the continuing care network or from any other social valence. Now, the CDS solution is to cut the budget of this hospital, because, there it is, it does not meet the metric and has these people too many days in hospital beds. If the hospital refuses to meet the goal, it has the budget cut, but if it agrees to meet the goal, then the consequence is that it has to put these people on the street. This is the choice that the CDS proposal obliges hospitals: or put people on the street, people who are social cases, or, then, have a cut in their budget. But let's go to another concrete case, that of several hospitals in the area of Grande Lisboa. It is known that in Great Lisbon there are more than 700,000 users without a family doctor and that this inevitably overburdens hospital emergencies. Now, the CDS proposal does not want to know about primary health care, does not want to know about this circumstance where hospitals are, does not want to know about matters to ensure that there are necessary family doctors, does not want to know about it. For the CDS, the consequence was the cut in the budget of these hospitals, because they deal with more cases of urgency than those that should do, by the metric that it proposes. This is the background race that the CDS proposes, and it has two very harmful features. The first is that it has a specific timing, that of the pandemic, which obviously has effects on the planned work of the SNS and, therefore, the consequence that the CDS proposes is that, in addition to dealing with a year and a half of the effects of the pandemic, there is still a budget cut for the hospitals of the National Health Service. But the second requirement, that, is more selective because, at the same time as the CDS says that the SNS should be financed efficiently, it is calling for an increase in payment to the private sector through its party president. In fact, we perceive what is behind this proposal: suffocating the hospitals of the National Health Service, so that they deliver more money to the private, so that the business of private medicine continues to flourish at the expense of the SNS and the public record. Well, we don't accept this way. With this proposal from the CDS, the direct result...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u111	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u112	I conclude, Mr President, with this sentence: the only thing the CDS would achieve was a cut in the budget of the SNS hospitals. I believe that if there is something that people realize, at the end of almost two years of pandemic, it is that who is against the SNS is against our people. And, in fact, this is a project that is against our people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u113	I now give the floor to Mr António Maló de Abreu of the PSD for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss this bill, an initiative through which the CDS-PP proposes a new model of funding for hospitals integrated into the SNS. In good rigour, this is not a new initiative, because, about three years ago, the proposing party had already presented a project in everything similar to what we now appreciate. In the past Legislation, the left front led the CDS proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u115	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u116	this time, I suspect that this proposal resumes, thus making it impossible, once again, the opportunity of this House to reflect on the important theme of hospital funding. It'll be too bad if that's the case. And it will be a pity, because, even if we disagree with the PSD of some of the CDS proposals, we do not believe that the National Health Service benefits from the absence of discussion and the current immobilism, because today, Mrs. Members, the financial and economic situation of SNS hospitals is serious and no one responsible and impartial can deny the degradation of the sustainability conditions of public health units. For example, despite successive financial injections, hospital debts accumulate and worsen at a hallucinating rate of EUR 2-3 million per day. Unsustainable! In the last 12 months alone, comparing July 2020 with July 2021, the Directorate-General for Budget reveals to us that the late payments of EPE hospitals (enterprise public entities) more than tripled, approaching its 700 million euro. According to the SNS Portal, last July, the outstanding debt of SNS to external suppliers almost reached EUR 1300 million, an increase of 50 % by the end of 2015. The financial sustainability of the SNS can be threatened in the medium term, since health expenditure has always increased above the increase in national wealth, which tends to worsen with the ageing population, the increase in chronic diseases and the increase in costs of innovation and technological development. in this context, it is almost pungent to remember the forgotten Mission Structure for the Sustainability of the Health Budget Program, which the former Executive created three years ago in 2018. This structure should, among other functions, promote measures that promote the balance and sustainability of SNS entities, including measures that would contribute to the reduction of payment deadlines to health sector providers. The problem is that, three years back, the Transparency Portal tells us, for example, that the average payment time of SNS to suppliers is currently in 130 days, even exceeding 260 days, for example, in the case of medical devices. After almost six years of socialist governance, it is no longer time for excuses. The waste and hospital inefficiencies estimated at about 20% of their total costs compromise the sustainability of the public health system. Quality indicators and metrics and health results obtained continue to be ignored in the financing of SNS health units, remaining hospital management away from the demanding professionalization. Despite the promise in 2015 the reform of the internal organization and the hospital management model failed. The promised commitment to autonomy and accountability of hospital management has also failed, as has been the case with the so propagated application of performance-related incentives. In short, in these six years, the PS did not make the reform that it promised in the National Health Service. For the Social Democratic Party it is urgent to change the paradigm in terms of management in the SNS. For us, it is imperative to motivate management teams and health professionals, but also to ensure the autonomy and professionalization of hospital management, with contractual fixation of objectives, according to best practices. Teams must be held accountable for the results achieved, but also create a real and effective system of incentives and penalties, depending on the achievement of the objectives previously defined. Since these are our proposals, Mr President, we consider today, as we have considered three years ago, that the draft law in question goes in a constructive way, and therefore deserves the opportunity for a more in-depth discussion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u117	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u118	...in the field of specialty, so you want the majority to rule us out. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u120	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Susana Correia of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill today, here, in discussion, presented by the CDS, addresses a fundamental theme for the National Health Service, that of the model of funding hospitals integrated in the National Health Service. This bill begins its explanatory statement — and, in our view, well— referring to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which determines that the right to health protection is carried out « through a national universal and general health service and tends to be free of charge ». Still in this explanatory statement, the CDS says, and I quote: "There is a widespread idea that, when something is free, it doesn't cost anyone anything. It also notes, and I quote, that « health has no price, but it has costs». Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We celebrated yesterday 42 years of the National Health Service in Portugal. The National Health Service in Portugal is the guarantee of universal health care, because what we defend is that the National Health Service is a universal service, without economic theories, general and trendily free of charge. And health, for the Socialist Party, is not a cost, Mr. Member, is a real investment! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Protests António Maló de Abreu.]] And the proof that health is a real investment in people is even the way the National Health Service responded to this pandemic. And the way the National Health Service is recovering from this pandemic does not imply the need to apologize, Mr Member, but to say a 'thank you'! Portugal is today the country of the world with the highest coverage rate of the population with full vaccination against the COVID-19. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This initiative also states that more health budgets are needed. Let us see: if there is a struggle that the Socialist Party has stopped is even that of the chronic subordination and strengthening of the National Health Service. The health budget has grown over 700 million in 2021; there are more than 29 000 health professionals since 2015; replacement of wages, overtime hours, 35 hours; new careers of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, pre-hospital emergency technicians, and hospital pharmaceutical career. Not realizing that all this effort was crucial to the way the National Health Service fought and recovered from this pandemic is to ignore the essential. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that the initiative presented here by the CDS does not specifically define a model of funding, before, advocates the existence of increases and penalties in the distribution of State budget funds to affect the institutions of the National Health Service. We understand that it cannot be ignored the path started in 2019, extending the autonomy of these entities, of program contracts involving compliance with indicators of access, quality and efficiency. The results are already measured and incorporated into the model of hospital funding and efficiency is promoted. Yes, Mrs Deputy, the efficiency of these entities is promoted, but doing so in a positive and non-negative way, penalizing these entities. In conclusion, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognizes the importance of funding the National Health Service and, in particular, hospitals. However, we argue that this theme cannot ignore a technical and articulated reflection, which responds to the needs of the system, in terms of coverage, accessibility and equity, respecting the constitutional principles and guidelines of health policies, efficient management of hospital units, but always safeguarding the importance of factors such as the efficiency of specialties—because some hospital units may refuse specialties that are important to populations—the demographic characteristics, the population area, among others. The efficiency measures are extremely important, but the impact on the ability to provide quality care should also be analysed, always requiring the maximum value to be delivered. And, for us, Mrs. Member, the maximum value to be delivered is given to the user. We cannot therefore agree with this measure, with this nature, because we understand that this initiative makes an investment in the path that has been followed, of the gradual extension of the autonomy of these institutions and of the motivation of its managers, for better health to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u122	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strengthening of the National Health Service and the guarantee of both human and financial means are essential for the National Health Service to have the conditions to provide the health care to which the population is entitled. We appreciate, of course, the autonomy of the management of the institutions, the efficiency of their management, the quality of the provision of health care, but, in order to be assured, it must be accompanied by the allocation of the appropriate means so that health units have the conditions to meet what is their mission. We believe that the proposal that the CDS brings to the debate does not go that way. It calls for quality, efficiency, but then, what it proposes, in particular, is not guaranteed those conditions, which are fundamental for the units to be able to perform and carry out their functions properly, is a penalty for those institutions that fail to achieve the objectives, not taking into account the concrete reality in which the institutions are inserted, the particular population they serve, which is different in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, in the region of Alentejo, Algarve or Trás-os-Montes. It is necessary to have this reality and this specificity in mind and on the table and, above all, one cannot penalise those who do not have the conditions to provide such care. It is that if there is a lack of professionals today, if it is necessary to modernise equipment today, if it is necessary to extend the coverage and capacity of various valences, either at the level of primary health care, or at the level of hospital care, of course, institutions cannot be penalized, because these conditions are not guaranteed. What the CDS brings here is exactly that, in the sense of worsening difficulties. Those who already have more difficulties will remain, those who are already where there are more asymmetries and inequalities will see these same inequalities and asymmetries deepen. In fact, this is the main objective of this proposal. It may not be poured into this project, or in the initial intervention of Mrs. Deputy, in a direct and more express way, but we are well aware of the objective of the CDS. This is to contribute to the breakdown and destabilization of the National Health Service, of course, to transfer care to private groups. What we consider essential in this discussion is in fact finding solutions to strengthen the SNS. We believe that more funding is needed — appropriate funding is needed, precisely to overcome the difficulties of continuing subordination — that solutions from an organizational point of view are needed, which also improve the functioning of health units in terms of management, but, above all, it is necessary to provide the National Health Service with the necessary means and conditions to provide the health care to which the population is entitled. These are the essential axes, and we know that, in fact, the CFP has presented numerous proposals in this regard, not only for strengthening the financing, for strengthening the hiring of workers, for valuing workers, for careers, for wages, for exclusive dedication, for investment in installations, for extending valuances, for modernising equipment. These are absolutely central aspects so that the National Health Service can progress and that it has more capacity to provide health care to the population and that the right to health, which our Constitution enshrines, is effectively ensured. We believe that the guarantee of this right is, in fact, promoted through a National Health Service with means and not through the transfer of care to private groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u124	For the conclusion of this debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has once again given her the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you for your contributions, and in particular to the honourable Members. Deputies Pedro Filipe Soares and Susana Correia. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, of two, or not read, what is understandable, because it is not his area, is not the subject that he usually accompanies, or, then, he wanted to do a number of demagogy, moving what is written on our initiative, to bring his usual back and back, that the CDS is against the SNS, he wants to cut the SNS budget and so on. It is that if you had read or, even if you had not read, if you had listened to me—just that—I would have noticed that what we are saying is as simple as this: a hospital cannot be regarded as a factory, which is paid by the number of acts and procedures it does, but it must put the patient and what you can get at the center in health gains. This has nothing to do with its simplistic conception, which is based on more or less budget. These are not our vectors and so is it—at least Mrs Susana Correia read the project—that we even say that we understand that it is necessary to increase the SNS budget. The question is how and where this increase should be allocated, to, yes, have a better national health system, even in line with what Mr has approved, with great happiness, and which I quoted, a good use of public resources, effective, efficient and quality. So nothing has to do with what you said, it has to do with something completely different, but I understand that you are not interested in bringing this analysis here. As for Mrs Susana Correia, Mrs Deputy associated the CDS project with economic theories. I sincerely believe that this brings you more trouble than I do, because, on 30 August, the Minister of Health said the following in an interview on the continuing care network: "There are problems and the financing model needs to be revised on the basis of the results". From the perspective of the governor, heard by TSF, and I quote « the daily payment is not the most appropriate to compensate for other aspects to which the financier himself wishes to bear in mind, e.g. the recovery of the people who are users of this service ». And then, look well, until it constituted a working group—in fact, it is a common practice, rather than approving a bill like this—to create a thinner cost model and to include, exactly, health gains.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u126	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u127	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Member of Parliament, perhaps, the best thing is to resolve this with the government before we come here to make interventions to say that our views are economic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u128	Mrs. Members, we have concluded this debate, so we have entered the fourth item on our agenda, with the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 883/IV / 2. a ( PAN) — regulates the brokerage and accommodation in balconies and similar spaces of pets, making the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 276/2001 of 17 October, and 932 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Improves the conditions for the detention of dogs and cats provided for in Decree-Law No 314/2003 of 17 December 2003. To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the representatives of the animal protection associations here present and accompanying us on this initiative. For about 14 years, a dog named Leo lived in a devolved terrain. This animal saw him burned his eyes, supposedly not to denounce the presence of people on the spot and, as it was running, did not even have the opportunity to defend himself or flee. It was an animal who was lucky to be able to be rescued from the acute suffering in which it was, by the civic movement Quebr’ a Current, which was properly treated, recovered some vision and is today found to care for a temporary foster family, something that the authorities, despite the demands, were not able to do. But many are the cases in which, unfortunately, no one comes in time. There are animals that live a lifetime of running around, as if in a perpetual prison they were being treated, of indifference to the eyes of all the people who pass by and that no one will help. It is of concern that in 2021 we are still discussing in this House the issue of pet brokerage — including cats — an anachronistic and highly damaging reality for the most basic principles of animal welfare. We also know that some of these cases of a more serious nature are already criminal, but this is a problem of a society that lacks awareness of respect for animals, understanding their needs, their emotional capacities and their needs. But it is also a problem that results, to a large extent, from a lack of civic awareness that animals are sensitive beings capable of feeling emotions and that, just like us, they also suffer, evidence that science has come to demonstrate, but that it would suffice to have a look and compassion in mind us. Unfortunately, in Portugal, there are still many complaints of cases of animals running at the door of a house, abandoned in balconies, a little throughout the country, many of them in truly degrading conditions or without the minimum dignity. Today we have brought some examples to this Parliament, but there are thousands of animals all over the country, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who live under these conditions. And we have even been careful to bring images that have not made the sensitivity of those who accompany us, because, unfortunately, many of these animals end up exposed, days, months, years by wire, to the storms, to the heat, to the cold, to the rain, which brings into question not only their comfort, their dignified existence and their well-being, but also, often, their survival to the conditions in which they are housed. This situation also causes conflict between the neighborhood, whether by noise generated, by insanity or even by the dismay and compassion of those who cannot live half walls with animal suffering size. In addition, we cannot ignore the risk of floods and fires, which are particularly fatal to the endangered animals. And the episode of the fire in the premises of Santo Tirso, a case well present in our memory, where animals lived that did not even have a chance of escape or refuge, is a clear example of this. The images of animals running around the entire day, closed in balconies, are also not a minor problem and should not continue to be part of the landscape of our country. That is why, despite all the advances we have made in animal protection, there is still a Portugal that has to make a civil leap, not only in rural areas, but also in cities, to have a country that looks at animals, its rights and that takes account of them as living beings with sensitivity. To that end, we need not only awareness campaigns, something that the NAP proposes in this project, but also to create regulations and an animal imbalance plan. All these initiatives already exist in other countries, such as neighbouring Spain, Germany or France, and in many US states, just to give a few examples here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u130	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u131	I really am concluding, Mr. President. This project we bring here reflects not only an improvement in animal welfare, but also an act of compassion that we believe this Assembly of the Republic will not be able to ignore. [[Thank you very much, Mr. PAN Nelson Silva.]] During the intervention, images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u132	You now have the floor to present your initiative, Mrs Rodrigues, who did not register Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Many situations of inadequate accommodation are still known, especially for dogs and cats, such as exiguous balconies or currents. These must be ensured not only shelter and food, but also the possibility of exercising and expressing their natural behavior. It is therefore important to make awareness-raising actions with the population so that there is a greater understanding of the animal welfare needs, but also of the supervisory bodies, so that they can have a pedagogical approach and identify more easily if well-being is ensured. In addition, the condominium must be protected by the possibility of restricting the freedom of condominiums to have animals, insofar as the law already determines that their detention is dependent on the conditions of the fraction. In conclusion, always paying attention to animal protection and welfare, we cannot create such demanding conditions for their detention that lead to increased abandonment, a scourge that we have not yet been able to combat, or that are impossible to control. It is therefore important to propose measures that protect them, but also that pay attention to the reality of our country, contribute to greater awareness of the conditional treatment of animals, promote responsible detention, encourage animal adoption and combat abandonment and ill-treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u134	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u135	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the initiatives under discussion there would be a series of political considerations, of a philosophical, ethical, moral and even rational nature, I would say, that they should be woven. The truth is that the way our society is transforming itself, replacing values and standards of life, would justify a serious debate. However, there is this absence and therefore our first note, to regret that none of these initiatives are worthy of this debate that is necessary. Instead, we face the extrapolation of unhappy examples, of something that happens in cities, throughout the country. Now, in this way, it ends up not reflecting the reality of the country, but only an envious view of it. Another aspect to be taken into account is how pets look, legislating about them without distinguishing them. in this sense, if it is suddenly known that each species that is included in the category of pet has intrinsic characteristics, we cannot fail to mention that it seems incomprehensible to us that these same characteristics are not met and are even ignored. For example, it is clear that there is not even a distinction between the demands of well-being, vitals, between dogs and cats, no longer to speak among the other pets, which seems to us to be basic. Similarly, there is no distinction in the type of place, balcony or similar, which is intended to be prohibited. Let's agree: it's completely different we're talking about a balcony with 5 m2 or another one with 100 m2. Again, this distinction is not taken into account. Let me go even to the reading of one of the proposed amendments to the NAP, so that we all understand what we are talking about. The NAP intends, and I quote, that « pet animals cannot be left alone, without human company or other animal, for more than 12 hours». Now, this means that if we're talking only about an animal, it can't be left alone for more than 12 hours, but two animals can already! And it's irrelevant to the species of these animals. So little is necessary that both pets are needed. That is, if someone has a dog and leaves him with a turtle or a fish in an aquarium, he may already be alone beyond 12 hours. This is what the NAP is proposing and, in our view, bad. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I just wanted to say that for quite a long time now that the PSD has been concerned about animal welfare and animal protection. The difference is that we do not legislate in any way, because, for us, it is essential that, side by side with animal welfare, there is good sense. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u136	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The affective relationship between people and animals has been valued, strengthened and stimulated. Today, most families like to live with one or more pets and, of course, provide them with the well-being they are entitled to. With regard to animal welfare, the Socialist Party and the Government have developed and implemented effective policies and we continue to work to improve the conditions of detention and housing of animals, whether they are of company or of production. Let us remember some of the latest diplomas approved by the government. First of all, the decree amending the organics of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and the Forests) also making it a mission of this institute to promote the well-being of pets, including errant animals, favouring the actions of identification, sterilization, adoption and promotion of responsible detention of these animals. in this sense, the ICNF strengthens human resources through the hiring of 20 veterinary doctors and the creation of a pet welfare department that will operate throughout the national territory through regional directions. I also refer to the resolution of the Council of Ministers approving the National Programme for the Animals of Company, which highlights the development of a general system of animal welfare, similar to that of other countries; the revision of sectoral legislation with a view to its updating, harmonization and simplification; the national strategy for errant animals, in conjunction with municipalities; the national network of responses to temporary reception, articulating the collection centres with housing of zoophyll associations and temporary host families; the establishment of a national programme for the adoption of pet animals, in a concerted work with associations and municipalities; a guide to procedures for managing situations of accumulation of animals; the national training plan, also with municipalities; the creation of the national register of zoophyll associations; and the award for best practices of pet welfare. This set of measures is led by the ICNF, as I said it will define, implement and evaluate policies for welfare, detention, creation, trade and control of pets. They will be measures to be developed in conjunction with relevant entities, especially with municipalities and associations. Finally, I recall the decree establishing the Provider of Animals, which is set out in the Government's programme and entered into the State Budget Act for 2021, assigning to the holder of this office the task of defending animal welfare, promoting a more effective and coordinated articulation of the State, in particular by monitoring the performance of the public authorities in compliance with the applicable legislation. I also recall that, on 16 July, Prof. Laurentina Pedroso was appointed to the position of Provider of the Animal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the initiatives under consideration, the draft law of the NAP and the bill of the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, are relevant and very important regarding the topics discussed. However, they raise questions that deserve a thorough and time-treated reflection. In the view of the Socialist Party, we should consider that issues such as involvement and environment, existing needs in the community, support and its form of application should be carefully considered. As regards the NAP initiative, we consider that aspects which reject the animal welfare policy are foreseen, such as the possibility of keeping pets in confined spaces, for example balconies, as indicated in Article 8 ( 6 ). the project. As for the initiative of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, we believe that there are issues that require the contribution of other entities. In the face of these limitations and doubts, we believe that there is room for better initiatives, so the proponents want. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, only with commitment, responsibility, cooperation of civil society and respect for animals will find a real balance. Therefore, we must increasingly call for a responsible commitment by the animal owners and continue to legislate, not only so as to serve the animal and its holder, but also so as to serve the freedom of those who, for this or that reason, do not choose to have animals, thus promoting the harmony of the environment in which they are inserted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u138	Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that much has already been done in animal welfare policy, it is, however, necessary to continue this path of protection and respect for pets that are, in many cases, considered family members. But this objective is contradictory to the emptyness created by the government's decision to withdraw protection from DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) and, almost one year ago, the veterinarians have not yet been hired or fully constituted the structure that should replace it; as is contradictory to the delay in the creation of end-of-line structures, the CROs (official collection centres) with conditions for the stay of animals and for their treatment and sterilization until delivery to a adoptive family. Now, in order to continue to deepen this path, we need to strengthen the foundations and not insist on building the house on the roof. We do not consider punishment to be the solution, but we insist on pedagogy and support for those who intend to adopt and maintain their pets. Campaigns for the adoption of abandoned animals should be strengthened, with greater support to municipalities, the parish, associations dedicated to the protection of animals and the environment, so that they can contribute to adequate behaviour of responsible adoptions, preventing successive abandonments and promoting structures of proximity to support animal welfare. The proposals we are debating today deal with issues that are urgently needed, but the most effective solutions will always be those that allow for change of behaviour, the end of abuse and not punishment, which, by promoting conflictality, will, above all, be struck by the lack of appropriate structures for monitoring abuses against animals. Still, we must not fail to point out that there are aspects that raise doubts. Can all those who allow erring animals to stay in their backyards or outdoor spaces be punished because they guarantee food, but are they alone all the time? Oh, my God! And people who leave home at 7 and come back at 20 hours because they live away from their places of work? Are we telling them they can't adopt an animal? Oh, my God! It is pointed out that animals cannot be accommodated in balconies, alpendres and similar spaces, admitting their occasional presence up to 3 hours a day, but will this not be a blind measure, which does not take into account which balconies and alpendres may have better conditions than the housing space and which animals may prefer to spend there as much as their time, even if they have access to the house? Oh, my God! What do these animals' owners do? Will you hand us over to the CROs? They left us? It is urgent to run animals away, to give them dignified conditions, to teach adopters to take care of their animals. It is necessary to promote responsible adoptions, combat abandonment, empty the CROs. But for these steps to be taken firmly, it is urgent that a path of awareness, investment, development of an animal welfare policy that really has animals at the centre of attention and not other interests be taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u140	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have come to take long and firm steps towards a law that guarantees greater animal welfare. These steps not only ensure greater awareness and awareness, but also control concerns, but we still have much to do. We have a local and central administration that has been disposing of several of its responsibilities and I fear that it will be seen, for example, in the delivery of public functions to private entities. We are talking about the associated hunting entities or the registration of breeding animals by the canniculture association. Not rarely, these are lobes associated with tauromachy... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u142	...and there lie many of the problems we identify, such as maltreatment, abandonment and proliferation of errant animals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, it takes courage to start putting this issue on the table and this problem also has an impact on the tendering process. When animals are a business, we cannot hand over the chicken to the fox, but in the role of proposals from the Member of the Socialist Party, we do not find these amendments, even those concerns. These are issues that will have to have a full response and legislative advance, sooner or later. As long as this does not occur, these inclusions of what we are talking about, of the specifications regarding the pet protection law, should continue to make further progress. It is also a relevant matter and therefore we agree with the proposals put forward. We believe, however, that they can be quite improved. For example, greater attention should be paid to the social situation and the living conditions of each caregiver or caregiver. If the living conditions of the person are unhealthy, the conditions of the animals may hardly be different. Who lives on an island of 9 m2, for example, can't have your animal in that exiguous space if the animal itself has conditions for that? Oh, my God! Moreover, concepts must be needed and it should be ensured that the collection centres, those responsible for the registration of animals in the national register and the joints themselves guarantee compulsory work of proximity when registering and licensing, information and ensuring that people have availability to receive the animal. There must also be a commitment by the Government to the laws we have approved, which has not happened with the necessary determination and we know - well. The regulation, budgeting, hiring of workers and workers to entities with responsibilities in this area are essential for this law to be effective, as well as other laws that we have already passed here. I leave here, however, by the Left Block, our absolute commitment to think and design more rigorously and in the field of specialty, with our proposals, which seem essential, a law that becomes effective and a process of abolition of consequent ties. We are available for this serious debate which we must do in the field of expertise. Clearly there are political forces that are not available here to do so, but when we speak in serious debate, we all know that this debate is to be held in the field of expertise, with hearings, with a whole process that needs political forces to be available to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law of the NAP and that of the unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues come to draw attention to a problem which, unfortunately, is already very old, of animals, especially dogs, but not only, who live in a situation that, I think, even without the help of the photographs we have seen here, we will all be able to qualify as cruelty. It's obvious it's cruel. I'd like to draw attention to whether or not these projects, or the photographs we've seen here, don't just talk about these cases. First of all, the photographs we have seen here show, above all, cases that are already with the legislation that we have, qualified as crimes and that are not covered by this legislation that is proposed here. This legislation proposed by the NAP today comes not only about the moorings, and if that were the case, we would be talking about a different subject, but also about pets that live in balconies, marquises or alpendres and also about animals that are left alone, without another company, human or other animal, for more than 12 hours. That's what we're talking about, technically, not about the images we've seen. So I have some technical and other questions from the point of view of the consequences and a final reflection from the point of view of values. The first technical question is that I would like, firstly, to understand the penalty for those who violate this law, because then the consequences come from there, both for those who violate the law, or for the animals in question, when infringements are detected. What happens, for example, if a person is caught up in an irregular situation because he left his dog at home for more than 12 hours alone? Imagine that someone is planning to get home by the end of the day, have a car accident, have to go to the hospital, and when the house gets home is in legal breach... [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]] I understand that legislation may not have been done with this intention, but what is written there is this that I am describing. I would also like to know whether when we talk about pets we are talking about dogs and cats or whether we are talking about all pets, because I suppose, in some cases—for example, in the case of birds—we will not be applying these rules. I would also like to know if in the case of animals, such as dogs, who live in farms or in houses with large farms and who sleep outside the house, we will also apply this 12 hour rule because these cases also happen, and if people are going to be separated from their dogs—because they simply sleep outside the house—if the owners sleep more than 12 hours. Is this gonna happen? Oh, my God! Secondly, I want to talk about the consequences. I would like to understand what will happen to these animals, because in the case of Santo Tirso, which is absolutely shocking, these animals were not in a marquise, nor were they trimmed; they were in a shelter called « Cantinho das Four Patas », which is where many of these animals will stop if they are removed from people. We should therefore consider whether we are not creating a worse situation than we want to avoid. Thirdly, finally, and just because these photographs were shown, I'd like to ask you. Members — of course without displaying photographs — how many elderly people know that they do not have the strength to leave their homes and see people once a day when they are lucky enough to have home support.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u145	The NAP presented an initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u146	In our hierarchy of values, is this situation a priority or not? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u147	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will turn to general considerations on the issues of maltreatment to animals, because they have already been mentioned over the years, and I would like to go, above all, to the proposals that are put forward, because the projects raise more doubts and questions than themselves certain as to what the proposers really intend with the proposals they present. I have the advantage of intervening at the end of the debate, many of the questions have already been asked and I can even pick up on them from a more advanced point of view, but I wanted to start by questioning either the NAP or Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, on which objective these projects are aimed, because it seems to us that having any consequences would be the impossibility of thousands and thousands of Portuguese having pets — this as a direct consequence of the proposals they present here. If that was the goal, I think it's done well. Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, above all, bears a lot on the component of legal orders, searches, removal of animals and placing of animals in dogs or cats ; the NAP is still softer, so let us say in the proposals, but these proposals have some consequences - and I say that they have, because, and already there, I have doubts that they may have - would be the limitation of thousands of Portuguese citizens to have pets and, above all, ladies and gentlemen. Members, precisely those Portuguese who have more degraded economic and social conditions, probably less-conditioned housing, will be double-criminalized because they will have to run out of pets. Starting with the NAP project, Mrs. Inês de Sousa Real, it is said that pets cannot be left alone, without human company or other animal, for more than 12 hours. But if nothing happens, because there is no consequence that the NAP foresees in its project. But even before the consequence, because I don't even want to dare to know what the consequences they want to propose will not come even worse than the intention, I wanted to ask: Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, but 12 hours why? Why not 10 hours or 8 hours? And why alone without the company of another animal? Is it a problem of interaction between animals? Someone who has a dog can't leave him alone for 12 hours, but if he has a dog and a turtle, can he be more than 12 hours alone? Oh, my God! What is the interaction between a dog and a turtle? Oh, my God! These are some of the problems and it is necessary to understand exactly what the intent of the NAP is to understand what we are voting for and what really are the intentions of the NAP when presenting this proposal. Another question: it is also said in the project that animals cannot be housed in balconies, alpendres and similar spaces, without prejudice to their occasional presence in these places for a time not exceeding 3 hours a day. Why 3 and not 2 or 5 hours? How are you going to check on something like this? Someone has an animal in 5. The floor of Admiral Reis Avenue. Question : How are you going to monitor something like this? How is it possible to seek a practical consequence of this? And I ask you again the same thing that I've already asked you about the other case: if it's more than 3 hours, what happens? There is no consequence that the NAP foresees in the project. It is not really clear what would result from the approval of this law. There is also another issue that seems to me to be more serious than these: the problem of ill-treatment and, let us say, the addition of the wrongful criminal practice here in relation to the issue of animal abuse. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, let me tell you something - and, above all, Mrs De Sousa Real is a lawyer - this is a terrible service that you offer to combat animal abuse. Come to say that these situations that are described in the bill have to be considered as animal abuse is the direct assumption that they are not. I ask Mrs Inês de Sousa Real if, looking at the law that exists today, she dares to say that animals in these conditions may not be regarded as being subjected to ill-treatment. Madam Member, let me tell you that this is a very bad service to combat animal abuse, because adding this means that this is not in the current law. But there is nowhere in the law that is in force today, whatever it may be to say that a situation such as this cannot be punished as ill-treatment of animals. In fact, I think it was better to take this out of the proposal than to remember using the NAP's own project to defend itself from an accusation of animal abuse on the basis of lack of legal foresight. Finally, I wanted to finish, Mr. President and Mr. Members, with a very simple reference: the problem of indeterminate concepts. When we are dealing with situations to which we want to give consequence, we cannot leave the definition of these situations with the degree of uncertainty and insecurity that results from these projects, because all the concepts that are here, as indeterminate concepts, are all very certain and may all be very suitable for situations, but when we are trying to limit situations, prohibiting...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u149	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u150	I conclude, Mr. President. When we are trying to deal with situations in view of your criminal punishment or there is certainty in what is being written or there is no possibility of consequence in the law and thus the indefinition and indetermination that the bills that you present here are such that I would say that we could hardly remove any consequence from here whatever it is. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u151	To finish the time available to the PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are at the end of the debate and much has already been said, but it seems to me that there is still one or two aspects that need to be emphasized, both with regard to the NAP proposal and to Mrs Rodrigues' proposal. Regarding the NAP, after the discussion at the previous point, it is appropriate to say that what counts is Lisbon and the rest is even landscape, because this only adapts to the reality of the large cities where there are small balconies, small alpendres and small courtyards. If we go to the Real Country, with the degree of indefinition that is in this proposal, it's worth everything, whether it's 0, 5 m2 or 50 or 100 m2. Yeah, because in my region having a patio or a porch with 50 or 60 m2 is nothing unusual. In fact, there is a very big difference here between the country and the city which is not at least shaped in these proposals. It's a great definition! But there is also another aspect that is as follows: sometimes we know when to stop is a great virtue. What do I mean by this? In the name of animal welfare, these proposals lead to the abandonment of thousands and thousands of animals, because they are the poorest people, with more difficulties, with less access to housing, the most socially exposed, those who would be unable to have a pet, in accordance with what is intended with these proposals. In addition to the legislative technique—which has already been commented on as it is almost incomprehensible—the goodness itself, apparently, of this proposal is a mirage, does not exist, on the contrary. With regard to Mrs Rodrigues' proposal on the repeal of the paragraph allowing condominiums to decide on the number of animals in buildings on horizontal property, it is also incomprehensible because we cannot treat — and the legislator has an obligation to make laws in view of the reality of the country — which is different than not being different. Currently, the law has already fixed the number of animals that may exist in each building, saying that there may be a decrease in the number, taking into account concrete situations, or even a greater number, within certain and certain parameters. What's going on? Whether we're talking about a housing, a band house or a building of T1 or T0 apartments, because, then, you can always have the same animals but the uncomfortable is not the same,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u153	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u154	I shall end up, Mr President, with an insanitary contradiction: on the one hand, it is said that there should not be many animals, because noise can disturb, until, when they steal and are alone, but on the other hand, there may be those who exist and, within the law, there should be no reduction, because they so decide. Just one last note, Mr President: these constant contradictions end up causing animals to be abandoned in overcrowded CROs, in associations, which are no more than animal accumulators and lead to cases like those we have just seen in Santo Tirso or now in the Algarve, in which people, in the name of love for animals, mistreat them and have them in bad condition, in degrading conditions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u155	We are now moving to the closing stage of the debate, so I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, it is clear from this debate that there is no political will to debate seriously the problem of animal welfare in our country and the scourge of the entourage. In fact, allow me even to say that it is misunderstood that, even in this House, so many times, we come to say that in the NAP we are a « urban-depressive walk», that we want to have dogs closed at home, alone, or in the balconies, and today, curiously, when we want to prevent the animal from being abandoned, closed on a balcony over its own fingers, its own urine and without food, there is no minimum sensitivity to a problem that is not exclusive to cities, but is transversal throughout the country. And more, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, so many and so many times, these absolutely deplorable situations are not regarded by the court as ill-treatment. Therefore, there is a line which, unfortunately, has not been considered by the court and which meets the legislator to clarify and leave well expressed in the law that these situations are ill-treatment. It's just the ladies and gentlemen. Members would receive the thousands of complaints that the NAP and the associations receive all year on this subject would know perfectly well that this is a cross-sectional reality throughout the country and that it is full of archives, archiving offices, which wash their hands from there, are not sent out to remove the animals from these places and permeate total impunity. There is also one aspect that needs to be clarified here. First of all, I should like to make it clear from what you have mentioned, that the case of Santo Tirso, in particular as referred to by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP, cannot be confused with the work of the associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u157	It's an association!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u158	The case of Santo Tirso was that of two individuals, individuals, who are not confused with anything about the very worthy work that animal protection associations have done in our country, replacing themselves so many times with municipal chambers. So it is also good that this is clear. With regard to the counter-ordering regime and the criminal regime, there is indeed a breakdown in the concepts and seriousness of the infringements. That is why a situation of an animal that is, perhaps, a week ago must be clarified in the law that effectively cannot happen, but in the situation in which the same animal, at the end of a year, starves itself because it has been abandoned there yes, already constitutes the crime of ill-treatment against pet animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u159	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u160	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. With regard to the deprived families, not only does the NAP envisage this issue in its initiative as we have already put forward several initiatives — including in the State budget — to provide solutions to people in situations of socio-economic shortage, with or without pets. And I cannot but mention, Mrs Deputies, as regards the elderly, who have the short memory, because it was by the hand of the NAP that the abandonment of the elderly was also discussed in this House. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u161	That's not true! That's not true! The NAP here was not yet the CDS had presented an initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u162	Let us then go to the fifth point of our agenda, with the joint debate of the Draft Resolution No 1161 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — National Programme for the Efficient Use of Water, of the Bill No. 931 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — establishes the obligation of the Government to implement a national action plan for adaptation to climate change for the water sector, in general, and of the Draft Resolution No 1188 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — For a water policy that ensures the equity of access and the supply of populations. I begin by giving the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Water is life support. Its necessity has led the United Nations to declare the human right to water, considering that clean and clean water is crucial for the guarantee and realization of all human rights. This vital resource is also essential for the development of economic activities. The climate changes there are imposing, even those who want to deny them, threats to various natural resources, but above all water resources, especially as regards their scarcity. There is therefore a global responsibility for preserving the water resource, which requires effective measures to combat its waste and pollution from its courses, from its sources at the time they dissipate in other rivers or in the sea, taking account of the water cycle and its use for different uses. As a clear strategic resource, water management has been the object of the private sector's interest in obtaining maximum profits, which The Greens have always refused, defending that it must be ensured in its public management, in order to meet the needs of the population and the country, ensuring equitable and rational access to water, conditions of development and life. For the Green Green Ecology Party, the water resource must be recognized as an irreplaceable good, a fundamental, inalienable right of humanity. As the agricultural sector is the largest water consumer, followed by the urban sector and then by the industrial sector, it should be taken into account that water may have different quality parameters for its various uses. For human consumption, the level of water quality must be much higher than water for industry or for water from public gardens. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in 2001 a proposal for a National Programme for the Efficient Use of Water ( UNEP ) was drawn up, based on a study by the National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ( LNEC ), with the support of the Higher Institute of Agronomy ( ISA ). This programme was approved only in 2005 by the resolution of the Council of Ministers setting out measures and targets to be achieved within 10 years. Much of these objectives have clearly not been achieved. In June 2012 the National Programme for the Efficient Use of Water was launched, with the scope of implementation from 2012 to 2020. This programme was intended to achieve water efficiency by 80 % in the urban sector, 65 % in the agricultural sector and 85 % in the industrial sector. The truth is that this programme ended in 2020. We're in 2021 and they don't know their results or they haven't been given continuity. In view of the fact that we are dealing with an extremely important resource, water, and also considering the high level of losses and the absence of re-use of it, such as rainwater for specific uses, the Greens Ecological Party considers that we cannot go through this issue « as a sold-wine dog ». The efficient use of water is so relevant, especially in view of the age of climate change we go through, that the specific programming of this design must be a central part. in this sense, The Greens today submit a recommendation to the Government that it undertake to submit to Parliament an implementation balance sheet of the National Water Efficiency Programme 2012 - 2020, in order to measure the compliance levels of each of the measures and targets envisaged at the end of its period of operation and to initiate the procedures necessary for the development of a new National Water Effective Use Programme. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with the water you don't play and she unfortunately doesn't fall from heaven.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u164	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In less than 7 years, at the current rate of emissions, we will have an average increase of the global temperature of 2 °C and the point of no return from which the planet enters a new climate state, a state that, according to scientists, will cause the reduction of precipitation, the increase of drought periods, desertification, sea level rise, with the submersion of coastal areas, extreme climate phenomena, such as floods and hurricanes and spread of diseases. These changes will result in a mass extinction of current forms of life, including of the human species, if nothing is done. In view of this scenario, scientists estimate that around 88% of the world's population will not survive. In Portugal, below Figueira da Foz, our territories run the risk of desertification, depending on the fact, can be seen in this image of the latest IPCC report (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ). Access to drinking water is one of the greatest challenges the country will have to face. In addition to the impact of water scarcity on populations, ecosystems and economic activities, we know that access to water, in the context of scarcity, has historically constituted one of the greatest sources of tension and conflict between States. The reduction in the availability of drinking water in national territory will be very significant and implies an urgent assessment of what could be the use of water and how to counter this process. Already at present we are feeling it in the Mira watering area and other areas of Alentejo and Algarve. It is therefore essential and urgent to draw up a national action plan for adaptation to specific climate changes for the water sector which, among other things, identifies that types of agricultural crops will be compatible with the water availability planned for the next 50 years; identifies areas threatened with water scarcity for human use for the next 50 years; identifies risks of nullity of international treaties containing exceptional regimes with reference to water precipitation, such as the Albufeira Convention; determines restrictions on the use of water for certain economic activities where this is not compatible with water availability; provides alternative sources of drinking water and water retention in soil and determines the implementation of efficient water use plans. At the same time, and because we believe that municipalities can play a key role in the implementation of this plan, we propose that there may also be municipal plans for adaptation to climate change for the water sector, whose preparation is for the municipal chambers and approval for the municipal assemblies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the investments to adapt to climate change in the water sector that the country needs are not compatible with continuing to do nothing, taking into account the time available and the financial resources that will be needed. When the World Bank states that EUR 147 million per year is needed in climate change adaptation actions in 2020, the Government, through the Environment Fund, has devoted only EUR 1 million to climate change adaptation while giving more than EUR 500 million to tax subsidies and billboards to oil products, precisely one of the activities contributing to global warming. When we no longer have water in the taps it will be too late and we need to act now. During the intervention, images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u166	What about the dams? Oh, my God! Are you going to lie down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u167	I now give the floor to the PS, for an intervention, to the person of Mr Alexandre Quintanilla.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As water is one of the most abundant resources on our planet, less than 3 % is sweet and a much smaller part is drinking. It is essential to life, not only because it is the main component of living beings, but because it is the source of all the oxygen we breathe. The oceans are the main sinks of CO2 and the water vapor is the most important greenhouse gas. Its relevance to climate change is unquestionable. The European Union has been fighting climate change through ambitious policies, and the European Ecological Pact is an excellent example. Portugal successfully concluded the negotiation of the European Climate Law, however already published. In the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, the ongoing work on the basic law on climate policy clearly integrates the issue of water. Recognizing that water is a vital resource, scarce, strategic and structural, requires the development of planning tools that deepen and anticipate scenarios of water scarcity for extended temporal horizons. The National Plan for the Efficient Use of Water 2012 - 2020 is being reformulated, in consultation with APA (Portuguese Environment Agency), ADENE ( Energy Agency ), ERSAR ( Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ) and LNEC, and in conjunction with the other sectors, for the development of sectoral indicators of water efficiency that allow a precise diagnosis of the situation and to manage the operationalization of this Plan. The Climate Change Adaptation Action Programme — approved by the Council of Ministers resolution of 2 August 2019 — is a holistic link to an action strategy for the most critical sectors, including the theme of water scarcity. There are also ongoing drought and scarcity management plans, whose central objective is, in the context of the Water Law, to mitigate the environmental, economic and social effects of possible drought and scarcity episodes, protecting access to water. Eight Hydrographic Region Management Plans are under review on the continent, where the Significant Water Management Questions, which were put to public participation by the end of 2020, are presented as methodological guidelines for the analysis of the impacts of climate change, including in regions of greater critical nature. Several relevant meetings on these topics have already been announced. Starting tomorrow, Greenfest holds a meeting on the « Water Pact », the National Meeting of Water Managers and Sanitation Entities takes place from 23 to 26 November, focusing on the challenges of the sector, and the recent study of APREN ( Portuguese Renewable Energy Association ) on renewable electricity is of particular relevance. In view of all the work being done, the Socialist Party believes that the issue of water will continue to be of enormous importance and is obviously committed to deepening this debate at its own level. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u169	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Climate change and the sustainability agenda are on the agenda, more than ever. The CDS believes it is essential to prepare Portugal for climate change, which is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century. Portugal is the country of Europe that will suffer the most and the main impacts will be on our climate: a more dry climate, risk of desertification, the fruit of more frequent and longer droughts and the decrease in water availability. Therefore, the need for good water management is a problem and a challenge that must be assumed and fought by all of us. Mr President, the CDS has long been alerting for water scarcity and for the lack of planning in its management and storage in Portugal. There were several initiatives that were presented in this House, all of them plunged on the left. The last of these was precisely one year ago, which provided for the preparation of real and concrete measures, with a permanent character, to reduce the effects of drought. We also believe that it is important to ensure the sustainable use of water, in addition to quality, in its quantitative aspect, which is a real challenge, insofar as it is necessary to combine current and future uses with climate change scenarios. Mr President, the urban sector has made significant investments in order to reduce losses, from uptake to distribution, and to promote the use of more efficient technologies, but unfortunately we still have very significant water losses in Portugal in some cases in the order of 50 %. All rainwater is sent to the sea by the sargets, instead of being held and channeled to the urban water, for example, or even treated for consumption. It is also essential to create rainwater basins at the municipal level and we must avoid the most waterproofing of the soils. But the agricultural sector and investments in water infrastructure have also contributed to improving the storage and distribution capacity of water, as well as the promotion and use of more efficient water technologies, playing an essential and fundamental role in reducing pressures on the environment and adapting to climate change. However, despite the regadio being also a guarantor of territorial cohesion, the focus that has been given in recent decades has not been addressed to this sector. There is still a long way to go with investments in the rehabilitation of traditional regades to reduce losses and also improve efficiency. There are very different views, in this House, in this plenary, on these questions. For some parties, agriculture and livestock are enemies of climate and environment. For the CDS, water is crucial for competitiveness and also for the modernization of agriculture. Agriculture is essential and absolutely fundamental to all of us. from our point of view, and we have said it several times in this House, Mr President, farmers and breeders are the real guardians of the territory and do much more for the environment and climate than many activists, in their apartments within the city. In a country where two thirds of the territory is rural, the lack of recognition of the essential role that the agricultural sector can have — and has — both in the preservation, in the cohesion of the same territory, in the reduction of pressure on the environment and in adaptation to climate change is nothing more than a pursuit of agriculture and livestock. The CDS does not accept or accompany her.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u171	Mrs Paula Santos of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are having this debate today following the Green Party's agenda. In fact, this is a matter of extreme importance to our collective future: the proper use and management of water, an essential asset to life, a human right. The management of water resources in our country is of extreme importance to ensure the availability of water, first for human consumption, for economic activities, not based on market logic and consumption, but based on the satisfaction of the basic needs of human beings and to ensure biodiversity and natural ecosystems. In fact, as proposed, it is important to make an assessment of the implementation of the National Water Efficiency Programme 2012-2020 which will enable, on the one hand, a balance sheet of what has been achieved and what has not been implemented and, on the other hand, to enable the adoption, in the coming years, of the measures necessary to ensure the accessibility of water and to overcome the problems of water scarcity. The situation of water scarcity is structural and not merely conjuncural. Therefore, the CFP, at the beginning of this legislation, delivered a bill proposing the creation of a national plan for the structural prevention of the effects of drought. This objective is to develop and implement an integrated plan in which the needs for the use of water for multiple purposes are correlated with the appropriate and possible storage capacities, promoting the rational and efficient use of water as a factor of economic and social development, based on the universality of access to this resource, to the detriment of its massive use and exploitation on a private monopoly basis. There is therefore a need to invest in increasing water storage capacity and to ensure water accessibility. There is a significant amount of surface water, rain water, which is wasted and lost and which can and should be taken advantage of. It is important to use technological innovation, adapt agricultural activity, favouring traditional species and varieties more adapted to the country's conditions and water requirements of new plantations and new agricultural practices with traditional species, as we mentioned. Obviously, the superintensive model that has been developed, particularly in the Alentejo but also in some regions of the Ribatejo and the Center of our Country, in fact, does not serve and does not respond to this objective. Moreover, the efficient use of water cannot be a pretext for greater concentration of land and wealth on large farmers, where small and medium-sized farmers, because they do not have investment conditions, are forced to abandon agricultural activity. Valuing small agriculture, valuing national production are structural elements if, of course, we want to ensure the production of essential elements for the survival of human beings and also a more efficient management of water resources. over the years, successive governments continued a path that led to the loss of technical capacity by the Public Administration in this sector. Today, we do not have the capacity to plan, monitor, monitor water resources, and this, in fact, has consequences, as we are seeing, in the degradation of water mass quality and also in the degradation of monitoring and monitoring of its use. In fact, this is a determining aspect: investing in the capacity of public services in the area of water. Another issue that we would like to highlight is the role of the municipalities and their intervention. This is an issue we cannot ignore. The watersheds have in fact an extension and an area that goes far beyond the territorial area of each of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u174	So we cannot see this matter on a case-by-case basis, we must see the integrated form and in a way that, in fact, allows for management.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u175	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u176	I shall finish, Mr President, but I would like to talk about two aspects. The first is about water losses, as it takes an investment to avoid such losses. Access to Community funds has not allowed it, and this is a central issue in the times that run today. The creation of conditions for privatization of infrastructures in the water sector cannot be privileged and investment in modernization and replacement should be preferred.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u177	Madam Member, we are already in great waste of time!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u178	Mr President, even to finish, and very telegraphically, with your tolerance, I would like to say that it is the public management of the water that guarantees, in fact, its efficient use and the defence of the public interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u179	I now give the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that the climate crisis is there and, with it, the lack of water, the more frequent, prolonged and severe droughts. This is the reality with which we are confronted in Portugal, especially in the south. But it is exactly when water starts to run out in the driest regions of the country that proliferates intensive agriculture and requires a private management of water that is of all and is of all. It is not because of the lack of plans or programmes that water resources are not used in a fair and efficient way, that is, in fact, because of lack of political will and because they do not want to address the economic interests that dominate their use and management. Let's see the case of Odemira and Aljezur. In June, hundreds of people suddenly saw their small businesses threatened, their orchards at risk and the creation of animals concerned because of the lack of that same water that they had enjoyed and paid, say, for decades. The private entity that manages the water from the Santa Clara albufeira, which supplies all these people, decided simply to cut the water so that the greenhouse farms that it represents — we know that it is mostly directed by these farms — could continue with intensive agriculture in the Perimeter of Mira Rega do Mira, which, in addition to the water, explores the workers and destroys the biodiversity of the south-west of the country. The appropriation of this scarce good was so evident that even the limited ecological flow was cut to the Mira River, part of the river and the fragile ecological state of the fauna and flora was aggravated. And when confronted with this situation, the private entity that manages the album said it would return the flow since there was a payment of €13,738 plus VAT (value added tax). This cannot continue! Defending a public interest that is of all means ensuring access to water, managing it in a fair and efficient way, while adapting the territory to the climate crisis. That is why we are beaten by the public management of water, knowing that, in this way, it is guaranteed that it will reach those who need it most. They can't be the owners of the stoves that send in the water that's everyone's! For this reason, we put forward a proposal in the Assembly to ensure the public management of water in Odemira, plunged by the Socialist Party and on the right. Let us not give up, let us continue to put forward proposals. Also the extinction of the National Institute of Water, by the Government of Passos Coelho, was a massacre in the management of... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u181	... efficient water resources, because it resulted in loss of skills and means. [[PSD protests.]] I recall, yes, that there is no longer an entity that does management, an entity with this concern and, now, with decentralization of competences for the administrations of the water regions that are now almost paralyzed. Restoring the National Water Institute and returning autonomy to these administrations is essential to ensure effective monitoring of the state of water mass quality. We also know that we need to adapt our territory to the climate crisis, so we present these and other proposals that guarantee the ecological transition of agriculture, which is, in fact, the most water-consuming sector in our country. We need a diversified, efficient agriculture adapted to the conditions of the territory and promoting stable and rights-based work. This means no more than 1 m of stove! By water, by climate and by what it's all about! If, in fact, there is no water, there will be no competitiveness, there will not be even agriculture and there will not be, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, life. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u182	Mr. Paulo Leitão, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, in addition to the relevance, relevance and current relevance of the topic, allows once again to expose the government's accounting policy. Let us see: in 2005, as has been said, by Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 113 / 2005, the National Programme for the Efficient Use of Water was approved, setting goals for the sector to reach within 10 years. In 2012, the Portuguese Environment Agency would reactivate the program for efficient water use, with the horizon of 2020, strategically changing the governance model by setting up an independent monitoring committee with the active representation and involvement of sectors with the largest consumers of water—urban, agricultural and industrial. As it is widely recognized, with the worsening effects caused by climate change, the efficient use of water will perhaps be one of the most effective tools to mitigate its impacts, enabling it to combat its scarcity and maintain or increase its agricultural and industrial production capacity. It is also well known that the monitoring reports of any plan or programme are essential tools to assess their implementation and the effectiveness of the measures recommended in it. Only those who have no execution or have nothing to show or evaluate may want to devalue their non-implementation, until, if it were from the Government's understanding that it would be necessary to reassess some aspects of the programme, the most natural thing is that it had been followed by the example of what was done in 2012 by the Government of that time. What is true is that in the last six years, nothing has been done about this program. However, in this sector the Government has guided its action by successive advertisements and propaganda, including a set of measures in the area of the most popular slope environment, more specifically with regard to forests and the version of green hydrogen, in order to please some sectors, and whose application raises serious doubts. With regard to the National Programme for the Efficient Use of Water, if the Government had reached the targets that were planned in it, we would certainly be completely intoxicated with sessions of presentation of the results achieved today. The fact is that we have only witnessed announcements of millions and actions, but we have seen a complete inaction when it comes to assessing the results of its implementation, which is again an illustration of the government's accounting policy. For the PSD, the knowledge of the real country—and not the country of illusions—is essential for the correct diagnosis of the current situation as well as for the adoption of new policies. We also consider it not enough to adopt regional or sectoral plans for the implementation of effective water efficiency policies, since they do not cover the whole territory and do not take into account an integrated view of the sectors with greater water consumption. As for the challenges that the country faces and will face in the field of water efficiency, it is important to know the results of the programme that ended in 2020, as well as the adoption of a new programme, which should be developed with the collaboration of the scientific community and the sectors mentioned above, in which there is greater water consumption. Wanting to schedule or plan the future without knowing the starting point and the effectiveness of the measures adopted in the past, why failure and the success of others is a sterile exercise, without any adherence or application of reality. Thus, knowledge of the degree of implementation of the strategic objectives — such as the reduction of losses in urban water supply systems, the irrigation systems of the agricultural sector, as well as the optimization of the use of water in the industrial sector and the limitation of impacts on the environment associated with industrial wastewater discharges — is essential for the implementation of a new programme. Mrs. Members, for the PSD, water science is one of the essential pillars of environmental policies, and water is one of the key resources for the future of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u184	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Graça.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has been a pioneer in both design and implementation of measures to combat and mitigate climate change. As far as we are talking about water, the fact is that the inclusion of measures for the efficient management of this essential resource in the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) has been a compliment of the European Commission to the Portuguese Government. Portugal has entered into the EUR 441 million PRR to improve the way we manage water in our country, in particular by favouring areas where drought has ceased to be conjuncural and has become structural. The Algarve, for example, who has been living in a drought for many years, will have EUR 200 million not only to help in the part of the supply, creating other solutions for the appearance of water through desalination, but also to improve the use of water. Improving the use of water in agriculture, improving the use of water in urban systems, reducing the losses already mentioned here. Also in Alentejo, a project over 67 years old, the Pisão Dam, will advance to more than 100 000 people have water in their taps. We must ensure that the current dam has structural problems and that it is urgent to find another solution for the population of Alto Alentejo. We are also preparing a new cycle of Community support, and this is an opportunity to use the science that now dominates the new agriculture not only to boost the profits of agriculture, but also to enhance sustainability, not only to enhance the increase in agricultural production, but also to enhance the efficient use of water. That is, we must have better agriculture, with better management of this resource which is water. Finally, in the urban environment we also need to use this new support cycle to make system losses, either high or low, decrease, whether ERSAR is right when it points to 28 % losses in 2019, or APA, which points to 21 % in 2018, which already shows that we are very close to the goals of the National Water Efficiency Programme. Nevertheless, the evaluation of this programme makes all the sense and therefore I would like to welcome the Green Party's initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u186	As this point is closed to the ENP, I give the floor again to Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's interventions are in the same direction: that of the conservation and efficient management of water resources. There's still a lot to do. It is not enough to announce millions of investments, it is necessary to implement the programmes and evaluate their implementation. By 2017, The Greens reported that this program was closed in a drawer. Our concern is that for so many years, it is not only in the drawer that someone has lost the key, because he had an implementation date, 2012 - 2020, as it is still on the website of the Portuguese Environment Agency. One of the major problems in Portugal is not the lack of legislation, lies in the lack of planning and programming that meet the necessary objectives, as we have said several times, lies in the lack of resources allocated to the achievement of these objectives and in the capacity and political will to pursue them. from here it turns out that often the laws, plans and programmes do not go beyond the stipulation of a set of good intentions that end up having no practical translation. With climate change, it is increasingly evident that Portugal will suffer severe consequences. We cannot ignore its effects. The Greens therefore consider that the plans are not made to stay in the drawer. It is necessary to act because we are at risk of facing serious problems in the medium term with regard to our use of water, which is indispensable in the most diverse needs, both for human consumption, agriculture and many others. The Greens have been alerting for these events for many years. This is the time to make an evaluation to strengthen the measures of efficient use of water. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u188	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us end today's agenda. It is also necessary to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session at 10 a.m. on Friday. the first item is the discussion of the Bill No 109 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Creates the possibility of fixing maximum marketing margins for simple fuels, together with Law Projects Nos 898 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary system of maximum prices for liquid fuels, 899 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establish a maximum price scheme in gas, 900 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Tax breakdown of electricity produced by renewable energy sources and other measures to counter the inflationary escalation of the electricity price, 924 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products ( ISP ) and 928 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Introduction of maximum fuel prices and anti-speculative measures in the formation of fuel prices. The second point follows the discussion of the Bill No 110 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves anti-doping law in sport by adopting in the domestic legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code. In the third point, we will proceed to the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 1438 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Guarantee of access to extraordinary support by unemployed and self-employed persons and 929 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — extension of the period for the guarantee of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. of the fourth point, there is the discussion of the Bills No. 909 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amendment to the Urban Rent Scheme, 930 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Alter the urban lease regime and the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of income under the COVID-19 pandemic, 933 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the protection of the right to housing of elderly persons ( eighth amendment to NRAU and first amendment to Law No 13 / 2019 of 12 February ), 934 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Recognition of lease contracts ( eighth amendment to the New Urban Rent Scheme ) and 935 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Stability in lease contracts ( seventy-eighth amendment to the Civil Code ). At the fifth point, we shall proceed to the discussion of the motion for a resolution No 26 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Democratic and People's Republic of Algeria amending the Roadmap established by the Air Transport Agreement signed in Lisbon on 3 October 2018. In the sixth point, without time for discussion allocated, resolution No 27 / XIV / 2 is scheduled. a ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, opened for signature in Strasbourg, 18 December 1997. On the seventh point, also without time for debate, resolution No 28 / XIV / 2 is scheduled. a ( GOV ) — Approves for accession the Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 22 November 2017. In point eight, also without time for discussion, the debate of the Parliament's report and management account for the year 2020 is scheduled. At the ninth point, at the end of this broad agenda, we will have a scheduled vote. Mrs. Sofia Araújo is going to report to the ladies and gentlemen. Members who were present by video conference. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u189	Mr President, I am going to announce that you were present by video conference at yesterday's plenary session on 15 September. Mr Ilídia Quadrado and Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group, and Mr Ana Mesquita of the PCP Parliamentary Group. At today's plenary session, the Members were present by videoconferencing. Mr Olavo Câmara of the PS Parliamentary Group, and Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP Parliamentary Group. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-09-16.u190	Thank you, Secretary Sofia Araújo. Let's finish our work. Thank you all very much. Have a good night and see you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 11 minutes.]]
