ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] of our agenda is, in the first point, the assessment of Petition No 130 / XIV / 2. a ( Movement So Not School ) — By revising DGS guidelines for the school year 2020 - 2021. To open this debate, you have the floor for the PSD, Mrs Carla Madureira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting about 5500 petitioners of the Movement so it is not school. More than one year later, this petition comes to the plenary which, due to the time and positive evolution of the pandemic in our country, makes its object extemporaneous, with regard to the uninterrupted use of masks and other conditions. The exercise we were required to do to all was difficult, to some more than to others, but for the professionals of education, surely, it was very difficult. It will never be too much to recognize it, because, in addition to dealing with its own uncertainties, sometimes personal dramas, it must deal with the anxieties and reluctance of the parents, with the advances and with the backwardness of DGS guidelines and standards, with few means and at the same time must transmit security, hope, give some normality to the children's daily lives, continue with the school mission. It is difficult to act in pandemic contexts so precarious and disconnected, so entangled in multiple contradictions that, at first, it was the choice between the life of older people and the education of children and young people, but that it was found to be a false dilemma and that it would be possible to reconcile the rights to health and education. However, we should not forget that Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with less conditions for distance learning, with unequal coverage of the 4G network and fiber, in which many families with children suffer from energy and housing poverty. More than 25 % of children up to 12 years live in housing with poor conditions, almost 10 % of their families have no financial capacity to provide them with healthy food. The fundamental point of this petition is that of the well-being of children, the importance of playful moments and their educational relevance, in addition to the quality of the relational climate according to which care and education are closely interconnected in the process of development and learning. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I quote the letter open by the right to play in pandemic time, also published in September 2020: « We live a very demanding time for everyone. There are many fears and many uncertainty. But for children there is still the silence to which they are voted in all the decisions that have been made about their lives, even as too often happens in a society that tends to consider that children only have the right to the future and not to the present, as citizens with concerns, wills and solutions. In fact, the fears of adults sometimes endanger the fair balance between the right to each child’s present and their future which, of course, have a different time period from that of adults. To play is fundamental to the physical and mental health of the child and is enshrined in article 31. the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. In the name of fighting inequalities, there seems to be an attempt to make pre-school frequency mandatory, when it is compulsory and universal. But we do not delude ourselves, because what is fundamental is the creation of the pre-school offer, from three years old, without cost to the family. Would it not be better to increase and qualify the offer instead of making it compulsory? The government has failed its commitment to around 10,000 three-year-olds who currently do not attend preschool because they do not have a vacancy on the public network and their parents have no money to bear the charges on the private network. For many families, this charge represents about a quarter of their available income. To promote widespread and equitable access to affordable and high-quality pre-school education and education and child care programmes, especially for the most disadvantaged children, it is now essential to overcome the gaps in knowledge, skills and skills to overcome inequalities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u3	Leave the ideological blindness, because children don't have more time to lose,... [[PSD applause.]] ... establish the necessary partnerships with all to ensure that, with the private solidarity network and, of course, with the public network, the supply of the necessary vacancies is rapidly extended so that we are entitled to the present right to our children. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u4	Mr Maria Joaquina Matos has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u5	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting those responsible for Petition No 130 / XIV / 2. the Movement Thus is not the School, in the person of its first subscriber, citizen Dulce Cruz, and the 5500 petitioners accompanying it in the presentation of this proposal to adapt the measures of return to school and "measures that promote the integral health of our children by reviewing the DGS guidelines". They say the petitioners who wish, moreover, that the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health for the Return to Classes are discussed and reformulated here, in order to be more appropriate to the proper functioning of school and the experience of children. With regard to this petition and its content, I have to say the following: the XXII constitutional government, from the very first moment, paying attention to the situation arising from the effects of the pandemic and taking into account the guidelines issued by the Directorate-General for Health in the prevention and control of the new virus, closely accompanies schools and teachers, providing guidance and providing support, with a view to the necessary and possible adaptations in each educational context. in this sense, and throughout these last three and unforgettable academic years, the government decided, on the basis of the constant assessment of the evolution of the pandemic, to opt for the modality of the present education, together with the promotion of a campaign to test and vaccinate teaching and non-teaching staff. Since March 2020, schools have built and implemented their contingency plans, which have been updated in the light of the principles of scientific evidence and knowledge as well as the evolution of epidemic situations. After a first set of guidelines issued by the end of the school year 2019 - 2020, the Ministry of Education, in conjunction with DGS, reproduced and disseminated guidelines for the school year 2020 - 2021, having been sent to schools in early July. For the school year that is now beginning, these same rules were referred to schools in August. In addition to these guidelines and the framework of the Directorate-General for Health, Control of the transmission of VOCID-19 in school context, the Ministry of Education strengthened the budget of schools for the acquisition of masks for students, from the fifth year of schooling, and for all teaching and non-teaching staff, as well as individual protective equipment. The resolution of the Council of Ministers No 19 / 2021 of 13 March defined the resumption of educational and educational activities in a face-to-face manner in public education establishments, particularly and cooperative of the social and solidarity sector of pre-school education of 1. the basic education cycle, as well as in day care centers and for children and students who resumed educational and educational activities, family support activities, curriculum enrichment and all other outdoor activities. On 5 April, the institutions of the 2 institutions resumed their present education. o is 3. the basic education cycles and finally, on 19 April, arrived at the time of secondary education. This resumption of present education was supported by several measures in the field of prevention and combating pandemics, by safeguarding the health of all elements of the educational community. For this purpose, it was decided to implement the testing process, in all educational establishments and in social responses to support children, to all teachers, non-teachers and secondary students, for early detection of cases of infection, for identification and isolation of their contacts. I remember that the testing campaign in educational and educational establishments began on January 20, this year, through the development and joint articulation of the joint work of government, health and education. With regard to vaccination, the government started this process in March with the inoculation of teachers and non-teachers of pre-school education and 1. the cycle. In April, the vaccination of teachers and non-teachers at the other levels of education began. This school year began with a rate of vaccination of teaching and non-teaching staff close to 100 % and with the school population from 12 to 18 years old, also with a very high and always increasing vaccination rate. I conclude by saying that, at the beginning of this new school year, that we all wish it to be normal and in a face-to-face manner, the maintenance of the vast majority of health safety rules, plus the phased implementation of screenings and the ongoing vaccination campaign, allowed for greater flexibility on the part of DGS in the guidelines on prophylactic isolation in low-risk contacts.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u6	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u7	This evidence shows the greatest objective, i.e., to ensure maximum health safety to all elements of the school community, and at the same time to evaluate the evolution of the disease for the construction of paths of greater flexibility in school life. Therefore, we reaffirm the need to maintain the guidelines recommended by the Directorate-General for Health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u8	I have the floor for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Arrobas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the Movement So it is not school the initiative of this petition and the constant concern that we have had with our students, daily, in schools, with teachers, with non-teachers and even with families themselves. of the much that we have learned in recent months, it is reasonable to seek new points of balance between protection and normality. It is true that we must learn to live socially with this virus, but we must believe that Portuguese people are conscientious in protecting themselves and others and that no more taxes and measures are necessary, often inconsistent and contradictory, but respecting their autonomy, their individual freedom. I remember that at first it took two weeks to flatten the curve and then one month to recover the National Health Service ( SNS ). Then we just needed to keep restrictions until there was vaccination and then until group immunity. After an initial phase of the pandemic, which led to the confinement of schools, with distance classes, today, there is much more knowledge about the virus and its forms of infection. Since it is not yet absolutely clear the role of the younger population in the spread and effects of COVID-19, we consider it prudent that there are some prevention measures, both for children and young people, and for all those who contact them — teachers, non-teachers and families. In the CDS, we understand that measures to protect the pandemic must be progressively balanced with measures to protect and promote rights, both for students and for their caregivers and teachers. It is in the communities and communities that schools must work on measures that ensure security, tranquility and trust to students and families, without failing to develop educational projects and to fight for the quality of learning and the psychosocial and physical development of students. At the same time, possible conditions of conditioning or imbalance may arise regarding the mental health of children must be monitored. As stated by CONFAP ( National Confederation of Associations of Parents ), the measures should be considered as frameworks of a necessary balance that schools and communities can and should take. We are very concerned that the school year had begun without the Directorate-General for Health had a plan for adapting schools to the current reality, with much of the student population, teachers and staff already vaccinated. It failed to have a clear thought, reverted to clear standards, about which would be the rules in a context that is now very different and in which there is a much lower probability of coming to suffer with the effects of COVID-19. What will be the testing policy — this is the issue that concerns us — defined for preschool, for 1. o is 2. or cycles? Testing must be used as a prevention of possible outbreaks. Will these rules be revised in the case of prophylactic and quarantine isolation for vaccinated and non-vaccinated students? And, in the same case, for the teachers? We would also like to know if you are equating a third dose of the vaccine for teachers and school employees. Schools cannot neglect their mission and provide children and young people with healthy physical, mental and social growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u10	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u11	I will finish, Mr. President. We do not miss this near past, but we really want to secure a risk-free future. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP Member Pedro Morais Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u12	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming all the people who have mobilized through this petition—of which I was the rapporteur, expressing the concerns of many families with the impact that public education policies can have on the mental health of our children and young people. This petition brings us the challenge of thinking about how to reconcile or balance health rules with emotional development, ensuring interpersonal relations, communication, the right to play, and therefore on the role of public policy decisions in the emotional well-being and healthy growth of our children and young people, so we believe that it deserves a much deeper discussion than these three minutes I have in mind to intervene. The appeal, through this petition, comes in the direction of public education policies to ensure adequate follow-up of children and young people on their return to school. But the political decisions regarding educational communities fluctuated — and it is not too much to remember — between narratives that children were not transmitters of the virus, the obsession with obsolete models of teaching-learning, the undervaluement of the importance of emotional and psychosocial development, the non-structural resolution of the reduction of the number of students per class to ensure the necessary distance between students, allowing them not to wear masks. Therefore, a review of DGS standards was called for through this petition. And because we are talking about DGS standards, it is not too much to remember that at this time it is incomprehensible that at the beginning of this school year it has been decided to maintain a measure equal to that which they implemented in the previous school year with regard to the entry into the daycare centres. We have already responded to this measure last year and put forward a proposal to change that standard. Unfortunately, she was rejected with the votes against the PS and abstentions from the PSD, the Left Block, the CDS and the Arrival. this year, at this time, it is incomprehensible to maintain this standard and, therefore, the NAP has again entered a draft recommendation so that the Government guarantees the inalienable right of younger children to the presence of a figure with which they feel safe—we are talking about the contexts of day care or similar. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that children have a high capacity for adaptation, but it is also essential to ensure that, when children so young go for the first time to day care or similar situations, or when they change context, they can be accompanied by a person with whom they feel safe, be a father, a mother, an uncle, an aunt, a grandpa, a grandmother or another reference figure. In fact, with this standard, we have to agree, so it is not school. That's not day care. [[Thank you very much, Mr. PAN Nelson Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u14	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Greens, I begin this speech by greeting the petitioners of this petition, which once again makes us reflect on the public school and some of its problems aggravated by the pandemic. But we cannot fail to welcome also all the professionals who have ensured that the public school of that, despite all the difficulties, answers to the students of the country. It is never too much to value the work of teachers, operational assistants, of the entire school community, for the work with students during the pandemic, which only surprised those who don't know the magic they do every day in some school establishments where everything lacks the commitment and commitment of their workers to the students. There were many who did not lower their arms before a virus that forced radical changes on a day-to-day basis and sought solutions for no student to stay behind. Unfortunately, as a result of decades of uninvestment, public school has been deteriorating. The Greens have therefore raised the question with the Minister of Education about the need to work in the outer spaces of many schools, a little throughout the country, which would allow children and young people to play, socialize, explore the outside world, activities so essential for their healthy development, but that they must take place safely. But what we have seen during years of recommendations for the recovery of the school park is that the works were being postponed by all governments, and so we arrived at 2021 with schools without security conditions in the most various spaces, but especially in the canteens, in the sports pavilions and in the outer spaces that would be so necessary, taking into account these rules that have been imposed on us during the last two years. Material and human conditions, the pretext for policies of alleged public expenditure control, have been degraded, and the public school is further away from fulfilling its fundamental role in the education and training of children, young people and adults. The object of the petition, unfortunately, was not exhausted, even if another school year has already begun. The most important of schools are students and it is sought that professionals are able to promote the success of their students, but that this success is, above all, the result of a public school of quality, democracy, inclusive, universal and free. It is necessary to create conditions to ensure that students, teachers, operational assistants return fully to the school space, because it is in school that children and young people learn, socialize, respect, accept the difference, know and grow on equal opportunities. Education is in school and it is in school that children and young people have to be, and this is not yet in its fullness. This implies, of course, the decrease in the number of students per class, proposed by the Greens since 2015 and which has not yet been fully implemented. The reduction in the number of students per class, which will bring new requirements, such as the hiring of more teachers, will also be very important for teachers to be able to perform their duties, ensuring closer and more effective follow-up to students, being able to fulfil these functions with the safety rules, at this time when we still live in a pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u16	I appreciate your conclusion, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u17	It is essential for the Greens to invest in quality public education, because we are investing in a promising and qualified future for the country, because we are investing in the happiness of our children and young people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u18	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners who bring us here this petition, the Movement So It is not School, a very important petition, because everyone likes to fill their mouths with the rights of children, but in this pandemic, and specifically on the issue of the use of masks in schools, it became clear that these are just words. Words that do not answer several questions, such as: What is the scientific basis for children to have lessons in masks? Who says that forcing a 10-year-old child to wear a mask is no longer harmful to his physical, social, intellectual development than the risk of a disease whose mortality rate at his age is 0%? What forcing a 10-year-old child to wear a mask is no longer harmful to his health, by preventing him from gaining resistance to other respiratory diseases that already affect our pediatric emergencies? If they say it is to protect teachers and assistants, all of them vaccinated, who decided that one's rights are worth more than others' rights? Or do children's rights not count just because they don't vote? Many children are already having separate recreations, to avoid mixing classes, are outdoors and yet the government recommends the use of masks, insisting on a culture of fear. in other cases, children are prevented from sharing toys. The school/family relationship is increasingly distant. Why all this? What scientific basis? Where are the rights of children? Who is responsible for the damage of learning and socialization of a whole generation?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u20	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u21	All these questions in one: on what scientific basis do children's rights continue to be violated?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u22	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and thanking the concern about a situation that has been evolving, but that continues to raise important issues that deserve reflection. We are particularly sensitive, as it is evident, to the issues that deal with play, socialization, contact with the facial expression of workers with students, direct contact, the importance of the use of outdoor spaces, the working conditions for parents to accompany children not only in the context of the epidemic, but throughout the entire school year all the time, the hourly loads related to classes and intervals. These are issues that must generate some concern and debate here, even in a context where several people have come to take a stand, for example with regard to defending the right to play. In this regard, I recall the warnings of Professor Carlos Neto, who refers to the urgency of playing and being active in schools as a factor in the construction of citizenship and the future of children. The evolution of the epidemic in Portugal made more visible the problems, some of them structural, with which the public school has been facing itself for a long time. The recent academic years, which were marked by the confinement and the replacement of face-to-face education by distance emergency education, deepened the already existing inequalities and had disastrous consequences on the quality of learning. The CFP considers that it would have been of the most fundamental sense of responsibility, in this circumstance, that the Government had sought to hear the educational community in a much broader and stricter way, particularly teachers and educators, with the aim of making a rigorous assessment of the situation that has existed to find more appropriate solutions to the preparation of this school year, in particular to the level of drawing up a true plan for the recovery of learning that would not be limited to measures of a conjuncural nature and temporarily limited. Therefore, in addition to the content that this petition brings us here, we also have to mention aspects that have to be guaranteed so that all this can go well and ensure that health safety and the conditions of schools are a reality. Therefore, we have come to stress at various times the need for real investment in public school that puts an end to the policy followed by successive governments, which have considered industry professionals as mere human resources, subject to economic management rules, as has been the case for teachers, assistants or other education technicians. We therefore consider that the adoption of the following measures remains a priority, not only in order to recover learning, not only in order to ensure health safety, but also in what is the strengthening of public school itself. This is the case with the reduction of the number of students per class; the flexibility of the organization of the classes, allowing them to unfold and avoiding the joining of several years in the same class; the guarantee of conditions for a practice based on the individual pedagogical differentiation and by learning groups within each year of schooling; the effective strengthening of hours allocated to schools for the development of tutors and mentors; the strengthening of means for a truly inclusive education; the effective recruitment of all workers indispensable to respond to the permanent needs of schools, including educational, administrative, technical, other senior technicians, teachers and educators. It is also the amendment of the rules which ultimately penalise the development of the career of teachers, such as, for example, the change of the norm-work, which has blocked access to the frameworks, to the teaching career; the elimination of the evaluation quotas and the regime of vacancies that prevents career progression; the adoption of measures of attractiveness to the teaching profession. But it is also necessary to ensure that there is an effective change in the portfolio of ratios, respecting the real needs of schools and hiring workers with effective links. Alongside this, it is still urgent to complete all the processes resulting from PREVPAP( Extraordinary Rare Link Regularization Program in Public Administration ). They are urgent and necessary measures aimed at solving emerging problems in public school, so what the CFP here today advocates is that these two issues need to be interconnected, not only the issues brought here by the petition, but the actual and actual shortcomings that occur in public school. [[PCP and PEV MP Mariana Silva applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u24	To close this debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u25	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet the petitioners of the Movement so it is not a school that, over the past few months, has often helped Parliament to reflect on the rules of reopening and operating schools in this difficult period of pandemic. And this period has not always been the same. If the first thing that hit schools, like the one that hit society, was the surprise, the fear, the ignorance about the behavior of a virus, whose fatality was the only absolute certainty, this ignorance, too, was evolving and we learned more about how we protect ourselves from the virus and how to adapt the physical spaces, social contacts and also the school and education to the presence of the pandemic. We quickly realized that closing schools would have to be the last possible resource, because the damage that this caused children, young people, their development and their learning would have very serious consequences and much beyond the duration of this pandemic. We also quickly realized that if the problem of the virus was the contact and the contagion that was given by contact, schools might have to have the means to be able to combat the virus, with as little damage as possible to children and changing as little as possible what was the daily life of learning and sociability of children. We realize that if the number of students per class was reduced, if the classes were divided, if alternative classrooms were to be found, if the number of staff involved in cleaning up and disinfecting the spaces were to be strengthened, if the means of testing were to be strengthened, if the public health facilities were to be strengthened, so that schools, who are neither and have never been public health specialists, could have their own plans to prevent and combat contamination, if all these means were available to schools, perhaps other measures were avoided that schools, because of fear, ignorance or excessive zeal, ended up taking and we all know. I mean, for example, children who played in the square range defined and painted on the floor, children who could not leave for the interval and had to stay in classrooms, children who were forced to do their meals inside the classroom, children who were forbidden to contact each other, children who had disciplinary processes for sharing the snack — and we all remember this example as one, among many — or who were forced to keep themselves in air currents, with open windows, during the cold wave of last winter. We said at the time, and we kept, that all this could have been avoided. But now we have jumped and we are at a new level of the pandemic, in which vaccination has a high success rate in Portugal, including among young adults and among older children, and in which testing is already a reality. The problem now arises when schools and families confront the rigidity of the rules within the school with the smoothing of the rules in society, particularly regarding the use of masks. And what they claim, and that is what we also leave, is that there is clarity and uniformity between the rules outside the school and the rules within the school. If the government has a standard that says that the mask is not mandatory, schools must have a clear standard, too, a very clear orientation by the DGS and the guardianship, about whether the mask is mandatory or not and where it is mandatory or not. If these rules...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u27	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, if these standards are not uniform and disproportionate, they will not only harm children, but lead to a functioning, he himself, unequal between schools and, like all the rules that are not understood, they will end up not being respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u28	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u29	We therefore appeal to this common sense and to this uniformization of the rules of protection and of the DGS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u30	Mrs. Members, we conclude our appreciation of this petition, so we will move on to the second point of our agenda to appreciate Petition No 129 / XIV / 2. a (Angela Maria Oliveira Galvão et al.) — COVID-19 — Enlargement of maternity leave for 1 year to 100 %, together with, in general, Law Projects No 622 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates an prenatal parental leave and an prenatal parental allowance by making the eighth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 to the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and to the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 643 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Promotes equality in the exercise of parental responsibilities by establishing a joint initial parental leave, 841 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Approves measures to strengthen protection in parenthood, for the purpose of the sixth amendment to the Labour Code and the sixth amendment to the legal system of social protection in parenthood within the framework of the social security system and the solidarity subsystem, 857 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the protection of lawyers in case of parenthood, 948 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Enlarges and guarantees the allocation of the initial equal parental leave in terms of gender, single-parent families and through adoption, extends the father's exclusive initial licence and the exemption for breastfeeding, breastfeeding and child follow-up ( the twenty-first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April, and the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April ), and 524 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) — By increasing the parental leave allocated to the country's mothers and parents, thus contributing to a strengthening of family ties and, consequently, the birth rate, and with the Resolution Project No 956 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Exceptional support for single parents and numerous families. You have the floor, to present the draft law of the CDS-PP and to intervene in the debate, Mr. Pedro Morais Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS welcomes the petitioners for the presentation of this initiative, in the person of the first subscriber, Angela Maria Oliveira. The conditions for the enjoyment of parental leave are a subject which calls upon us all, in particular because of the impact these conditions have or may have on birth indicators. For this reason, we also welcome the parliamentary groups that brought to debate their ideas and initiatives on this subject. I am sure that, despite some differences in some of the solutions, our goal is common: to allow families to have the children they want and to live in conditions of comfort and security. Low birth and increased average life expectancy compete decisively for the ageing of the population and create cross-cutting problems that we cannot ignore. Our continuity as a community, the social balance of our society, the vitality of our economy and the financial strength of our state and our social model depend decisively on the reversal of the low birth trend. Contributing to the resolution of the demographic challenge has long been one of the priorities of the CDS's political action. It is our conviction that the State should focus its policies on promoting an environment that allows families to freely choose more children if that is what they want. There are, however, several areas, Mr President and Mr. Members, in which the State acts as an obstacle to the increase in birth, such as the high tax burden it imposes, the insufficiency of the network of services that ensures, a legal framework that makes it difficult to reconcile family life with professional life or the rigidity of the mechanisms to support maternity and childhood that it establishes. In terms of labour law, the State has limited, and much, families in their projects to have more children. The debate on birth and work, the tension that often exists between birth policies and labour policies, between family life and working life, refers us immediately to how parental leave can be enjoyed. The regulation of parental leave is crucial for the decision of a family to have a child or not. That is why the countries that have best overcome the demographic challenge have waged on flexible, extended, adapted parental leave and also adapted to the needs of families. Each family, in fact, has its context, each pregnancy has its specificities. We cannot therefore look at parental leave with only the number of days of enjoyment of the licence and the percentage of remuneration during that period as a premise. It is necessary to make dynamic instruments, flexible instruments, adjustable instruments. At present, Mr President, our labour legislation provides that the mother may enjoy up to 30 days of the initial parental leave before delivery, i.e. if the mother chooses to enjoy days of leave before delivery she cannot enjoy all the days that are scheduled for the initial parental leave after delivery. The days of leave enjoyed before the birth of the baby are discounted to all the days of leave to which the mother is entitled. The CDS understands that shouldn't be the case. We understand that it is of the greatest justice that the mother can enjoy up to 15 days of prenatal leave before the date of delivery, without these days being subsequently discounted in the period of the initial parental leave. We understand that this prenatal leave should be optional, but paid at 100 %, there is no need to prove the existence of clinical risk. The CDS advocates an unequivocal and committed wager in support of birth, from the outset adapting our labour legislation to the needs of families. Responding to the demographic challenge, Mr President, must be the priority of our legislative policy. It is the emergence of new generations that imposes it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u32	You now have the floor to Mrs. Deputies who did not register Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the factors that leads to discrimination at work is the fact that women continue to be seen as the primary caregiver of their children. As a result, there is discrimination in access to employment or career progression. This is a model of society that penalizes maternity and asks women to choose between being mothers or having a professional career. Women should be able to be free in their choices and men have the right to have an active and present role in the lives of their children. We therefore intend to ensure that both parents are entitled to equal initial parental leave and enjoyed simultaneously. Lawyer needs special attention. In 2009 the right to postponement of proceedings was enshrined in the case of maternity and paternity, but not the postponement of the remaining procedural acts, which is not consistent with the right to become a family. This right is not summed up in having children, it also means being able to take care of them. We therefore propose that the proceedings be suspended for 90 days for the exercise of parental rights and that lawyers enjoy the right to postpone the procedural acts in which they should intervene for the purposes of breastfeeding. The argument of the laziness of the proceedings does not take, because it seems that all the ills of the delay of the proceedings are the fault of the lawyers and the truth could not be further away from it. We cannot deny these professionals constitutional rights because of the poor functioning of justice in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u34	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not unusual to hear cases of mothers who, even if they do not want to, stop caring for their babies from 4 months old, because when they face the possibility of continuing home with their newborn, the option is only one: with a loss of 20 % of their remuneration, there is no margin for doubts in many families, they have to return to work, with weight in consciousness for not being able to continue to care for such a small and fragile being. But we also heard more and more parents who, wanting to have a more active role in parenthood, promoting what can be a caring masculinity, do not do so, not to take days off from their mothers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these cases demonstrate how late our country is in relation to parental leave legislation. Note: if the initial parental leave lasts from 17 to 21 weeks in Portugal, this duration in the various European countries has been rising consecutively since 2004. In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, it is 28 weeks; in Norway, it is 36 to 46 weeks; in Macedonia, it is 36 weeks; in Ireland, it is 42 weeks; in Denmark, Serbia, the United Kingdom, Albania, Bosnia and Montenegro, it is 52 weeks; in Croatia, it is 58 weeks; in Sweden, it is 60 weeks. Twelve quite different countries and all of them with one point in common: parental leave longer than that of our country. Even in Hungary, the license is 24 weeks. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the mobilization of more than 25 000 people, to whom we welcome and thank, this Parliament is discussing the extension of parental leave and, in this debate, the NAP presents itself with very clear proposals aimed at strengthening the protection of parenthood with a view to promoting and improving the reconciliation between family life and working life in order to contribute to better health for babies and mothers. We therefore propose an extension of the duration of the initial parental leave for six months and that this licence become a parity, including, therefore, the other parents — the other father or mother — within the duration of their leave. It is therefore a matter of bringing to the Labour Code best international practices and thus starting a joint effort to protect, promote and support breastfeeding. We must not forget here that the World Health Organization recommends that babies be breast-feeding exclusively up to six months of life and that breastfeeding then occur in free demand. 20 years ago, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the World Health Assembly, an organ of the World Health Organization, recommended to the Member States that, as a public health measure, support exclusive breastfeeding for six months. How long will it take us to implement these recommendations from the World Health Organization in our country? How long will it take us to understand that the amendments we made here, in this House in 2019, are not sufficient and that only with a six-month license can these recommendations be met? The longer we turn to the statistics, which tell us that in Portugal the number of mothers to breastfeed decreases significantly after 4. o and 5. the month, what corresponds exactly to the moment the license ends? How much longer, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are we going to exclude the parents, male, from active and responsible parenthood? But in this debate, we also want to review the Labour Code in order to ensure that parental rights are not challenged, even when a parent and mother of a baby are employees of the same microenterprise. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, valuing the rights of kinship in accordance with the terms recommended by the World Health Organization is a task that we have in our hands and that will not happen unless the parties present here do not want it. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u36	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners and the petitioners in the person of the promoter of this initiative, Angela Galvão, and, above all, the thousands of people who have questioned this Parliament with this issue and who are forcing us today to hold this debate. In five days, there were more than 25 000 signatures with an alert and a need for greater protection in parenthood. It is true that the petition was promoted in a particular context of the COVID that exacerbated this need, but the debate for which the Assembly is asking is far beyond the pandemic context. Basically, it is a question of whether the rights enshrined in the Labour Code today are sufficient or whether they should be extended so that there is more time to live with children, so that there is more time to take care of them, especially at an early stage of their lives. It is a fact that the mother's initial parental leave, on which the petition is specifically pronounced, is now scheduled: four months to 100 %, five months to 80 %, and may be extended but only pay 25 %. As the petitioners say, the current salaries are so low that this extended leave period is impossible for most families or, then, puts them in a situation of real financial asphyxiation. This would, in itself, be sufficient for us to commit ourselves to extending the initial parental leave to at least six months paid to 100 %, but above all it is a fact that requires us to take more steps in a logic of equality and sharing in terms of care, particularly care for children. In this field, we continue to have a heavy inequality, women continue to have an overload of work, invisible work, so often not recognized and not supported in the field of child care. Women support more than three times the work with the care of children than their companions. With regard to education and child care, the proportion is more or less the same, according to a recent study by the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation and 60% of the respondents of this same study believe that the working conditions regarding the reconciliation between family life and working life, wage justice, the number of hours of work away from home and precariousness are today highly harmful in order to be able to accompany their children. We are talking about matters that relate to precariousness, to collective hiring, to shiftwork, to informal work, to despotism in the world of work and, of course, to the organization of household tasks and the care of children based on gender roles, which continue to be very different, has devastating effects on many of the dimensions of women's lives and also affects men, in particular the possibility of building ties with their children. Parental leave is an essential labour right that results from the need to protect the restoration of pregnancy, but it is also an instrument to create links between parents, mothers and children and to guarantee the child the right to benefit from dedicated attention. Only that equality in the exercise of these licences is still a mirage. There is enormous class inequality in the exercise of these licences because they are not paid to 100 %, there is gender inequality, i.e. the fact that women are, in most cases, the use of parental leave results in a decrease in their available income, when compared to men, which then has very important effects in terms of reform, old age pension, conditions the professional choices of women, in particular by promoting gender segregation at work, but also working time, career progression opportunities, etc. In Portugal, in the case of the initial parental leave, both parents are entitled to an initial parental leave of 120 days or 150 consecutive days, which can be shared, and then there may be more than 30 days paid at 80 %, in addition to additional increases, in case of twins or by premature birth. However, we understand that this is the time for us to take a step not only in the extension of the licence paid to 100 % but also in the paradigm of the initial parental leave. How? Establishing an equal and non-transferable parental leave for six months to 100 % — six months to 100 % for the mother, plus six months to 100 % for the father or both parents, if we are talking about same-sex couples. It is a fair step, it is an equal step, it is a progressive step and it is a step that puts us closer to the reality of other countries. We need to promote this opportunity of choice, to promote this protection of children, to promote better conditions for people to carry out their fertility projects, their parenthood projects. It is a measure that, of course, must be increased for single-parent families and also accommodate adoption cases, it is a measure of equality and sharing of domestic work, the work of care and, since we are moving in this area, we understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u38	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u39	Yes, Mr. President. As I said, since we are moving in this area, we also understand that we should once again welcome the suggestion of the World Health Organization and the Medical Order to extend the exemption from breastfeeding, breastfeeding, transforming it into a follow-up dispensation for the first three years, without the need to prove and make tests, as is still being maintained today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u40	Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A healthy demography is an essential vector of the stability and political and economic weight of any country. However, living conditions in today’s developed world do not favor family balance, then birth. The basic conditions for returning to this balance must be properly prepared for the modern world and, therefore, for the resumption of a positive evolution of natural balance, that is, we will again have more births than deaths. Indeed, demographic developments in Portugal are far from positive. The Portuguese population is ageing and the birth rate was last year the fourth lowest in the European Union. In turn, No. 1. this year's semester, only about 37,700 children were born, the lowest value of the last 30 years. And we could continue to quote conflicting numbers, translating a reality to such a negative point that it is easy to understand that it will, in time, question our survival as a Nation and as an independent State. Therefore, he understands that a wide range of measures must be taken to create the conditions that are indispensable to a clear reversal of this trend. One of them is the one that is underlying the bill that we present here today and which aims to increase the days of parental leave to enjoy both by the mothers and by the parents. It will be one of the many steps that will have to be taken if we want to start returning to the family the central relevance that it assumes in the constitution of a balanced society, one of the key points of the program of my party and for which we will always be beaten.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u42	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Greens, I would like to welcome not only the thousands of subscribers who have intended to address the Assembly of the Republic in order to request the extension of maternity leave for one year to 100 % within the framework of the COVID-19, but above all the fact that this petition brings back to debate the need to evolve with regard to the rights of parenthood. Because it is about rights we speak of: the right of mother and father to follow the growth of their children and the right of children to follow parents since birth. The Greens Ecological Party has presented a number of initiatives proposing, in particular, the improvement of the follow-up given to children after their birth and thus ensuring better reconciliation between professional life and family life in the early years of the child's life, proposals that seek not only to contribute to supporting parenthood, ensuring the well-being of children with short, medium and long-term repercussions, but also to encourage birth. We must not forget that political options contribute to demobilising or encouraging citizens, at birth, if the political option is to degrade the living conditions of families. With low wages, with a job practice of absolute precariousness, with the difficulty of renting a house, with public investment in support of children and young people, with the absence of rights in the follow-up of children, the result will not be promising. Discrimination against women in access to employment due to maternity is also a reality that also generates such serious and distressing situations, such as that in which an employer puts the condition of hiring a woman under the responsibility of the woman not to become pregnant in subsequent years. Low wages and precariousness at work are also factors that compete for families to be able to have children or not, since they are not provided with the necessary support and safety conditions to offer one or more children. Other factors will have relevance to the option to delay or even decide to have no children, including the fragility in supporting childhood and the difficulty of reconciling a demanding professional life with family life. The amendments are necessary so that they can be fulfilled with the evolution we feel in society. Labour laws need to pay attention to the increasing need to bring the two parents closer to a closer follow-up of the first months of the babies so that the ties are created from a young age, fulfilling the right of the child to a happy childhood.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u44	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From now on, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I should like to congratulate the petitioners, welcoming the subject and subject matter they brought in the same petition, specifically referring to the extension of maternity leave, which calls on the House to discuss and reflect on the way in which they want to follow in the fulfilment of maternity and paternity rights. over the years, the CFP has made a broad set of interventions and has even presented very concrete proposals on this subject precisely, in order to strengthen the rights of motherhood and paternity, recognizing them to mothers and parents, making proposals towards the realization of these same rights and, of course, not detaching from here the right of the child to be accompanied, from birth, by the father and mother. in this sense, the proposals we have put forward over the years meet the recitals we make here. In this Parliament, we have launched a legislative initiative aimed at strengthening these rights of the mother, father and children, in particular by proposing that the exclusive maternity leave be extended to nine weeks or even that the parental leave be extended to 210 days without any limitation or constraint and of course always ensuring its payment to 100 %. This is an initiative which the CFP has already given and which we will have time to discuss. On the subject we are addressing, whether within the scope of the petition, whether we consider the interventions made by the various parliamentary groups, it is important to say that, although there have been significant changes in the roles of women in society and important changes related to this progressive change, discrimination persists that many women feel every day at their workplaces. There are still direct and indirect pressures on women by employers in employment interviews, when asked about whether they are thinking of becoming pregnant, whether they have children and what age these same children, particularly young people, are discriminated against in access to first employment because they have decided to become pregnant. There are economic and labor pressures so that workers do not enjoy the full maternity leave or the reduction of the hour for breastfeeding and breastfeeding, and there are even cases of many workers and workers in precarious work situations that are not recognized, even the right to maternity and paternity leave. at the same time that it is necessary to make a path to strengthening the rights of motherhood and paternity, it is necessary to make a firm way to combat this whole set of discriminations that persist, to these pressures and blackmails, which are absolutely unacceptable, especially at a time when, recognizing the problems we have from the point of birth and the need to take action, the strengthening of birth and the possibility of families having the children they really wish is inseparable from this strengthening of the rights of motherhood and paternity. But it is also inseparable to improve the living conditions of workers, including the recovery of wages, the fight against precariousness, the fight against irregular schedules, so that there is effective follow-up of children throughout their lives and that the right of children to be accompanied by parents and mothers is fulfilled, in a relationship between professional, personal and family life, which is far from being a reality in the lives of hundreds of thousands of workers. For the CFP, the path of deepening the rights of motherhood, paternity and parental sharing must ensure, in a joint manner, the following aspects: respect for and protection of maternity in its biological component, in pregnancy, in childbirth and also in breastfeeding, ensuring the protection of women's specific rights; respect for and protection of paternity by the father's right to be present in the child's life from birth; protection of motherhood and paternity with the right of the child to be desired and accompanied, ensuring conditions for their harmonious development; and also the free decision of the woman and the couple on how to share parental leave. It has been in this sense that we have intervened, and it will also be in that sense that we will continue to intervene. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u46	For an intervention, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the more than 25 000 petitioners who have signed this petition and who have provoked this discussion. This evidence of participation and civic interest in provoking a discussion on any subject, in particular on this, which is of the greatest importance, deserves a special greeting. Together with this petition today we discussed six bills and a draft resolution, all of them in order to strengthen protection measures in parenthood. It is true that it will not be today that the political differences between the various banks and the various parties sitting in this Parliament will end, but rather the debate will certainly deserve a broad consensus on the national design which is the need to remove obstacles to birth, the decision of Portuguese families to have children and to build the country's future. Strengthening protection in parenthood through measures that promote more and better protection for families, including single-parent families and those constituted by adoption, as well as measures that promote more balanced parenthood between men and women, is undoubtedly a strong instrument of public policies to promote birth and combat gender inequalities. in these matters, the Social Democratic Party has and has always had a quite clear position. In everything that has to do with family, birth, reconciliation of family life with professional life, the Social Democratic Party has always been and will be available to promote changes to legislation, in order to better support families, parents and mothers who decide to have children. We are and have always been on the side of these parents. We understand that the strengthening of parenthood should be done in a perspective of sharing tasks in the family and society, with the ultimate objective of equal responsibility for the father and mother. in this sense, we understand that the rights of the father and mother must be enshrined in an autonomous and balanced way, in a perspective of complementarity, in the sense of equality between men and women in all areas of life in society. in this context, the law should serve to enhance a change in mentalities, in order to regulate historical discrimination based on gender roles totally stereotyped and that are penalizing for all of us. This is always in the perspective of reducing the social and labour market pressures and pressures. With regard to the draft law of the non-registered Member's initiative Cristina Rodrigues, which aims to strengthen the protection of lawyers in case of parenthood, by introducing amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, although this initiative is to praise, in so far as it seeks to strengthen the rights of particularly unprotected professionals, we must not fail to highlight two aspects which we consider relevant: one, this initiative suffers from gross errors, in particular in criminal proceedings ; the other concerns whether the proposed regime of suspension of the instance is compatible with the constant concern when there are ongoing discussions on justice, in particular with speed and the fight against delay in justice. That said, if this project is generally approved or goes down to committee without a vote, these aspects must be considered and weighted—and they can certainly be! — in the field of expertise, with the intervention of all parliamentary groups. However, it is important to highlight all these matters, which, because of their importance, deserve a broad debate and broad consensus. This has been the case in the past and will have to be the case in the future. Given that the strengthening of protection measures in parenthood has an impact on the economy, there should be a serious and broad discussion, as well as a broad consensus that must go beyond the parliamentary consensus, a consensus that must be reached at the centre of social dialogue. We know that at present these issues are being discussed in terms of social consultation between the Government, workers and employers, any initiatives that make profound changes to the parenthood regime represent, from our point of view, a disregard for social consultation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u48	On the other hand, it is also important to clarify to people that all of these proposals that we are discussing today lead to an increase in public expenditure because, after all, it is up to the State to pay the subsidies in relation to the protection of parenthood. Thus, by virtue of the labour law, which prevents the increase in expenditure which is not foreseen in the State budget, all these proposals, to be approved, could only produce effects in the next economic year, in the coming calendar year, which raises another issue, the question of the opportunity to discuss these matters when we are on the eve of negotiation, discussion and approval of the State budget. In fact, these proposals should be discussed in the context of the discussion of the State budget, which is at the door. I shall finish by wishing that together we can find the best solutions, for the sake of birth, families and the future of all those who will follow us. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u49	I call on Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance, particularly with petitions No 129 / XIV / 2. the initiative of the citizen Ângela Maria Oliveira Galvão and of more 25 277 subscribers. Also motivated by this petition, we are discussing a number of initiatives that aim to contribute to the improvement of the social protection of citizens, especially with regard to the protection of parenthood, which undoubtedly deserve special attention. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would first of all like to make it clear that, for the Socialist Party, it is talking about parenthood and parenthood and that the balance of protection and rights for both parents is always a concern and a priority in relation to family policies, so we have substantial reasons not to approve these proposals. The first reason is because we do not agree with the simultaneous use of licences. It is proven and there is clear scientific evidence that indicates that increased licensing sharing is all the more important when the studies show that parents who enjoy licenses shared with mothers have a higher tendency to share all parental responsibilities throughout the childhood and youth of their children, whether in the follow-up to the disease, in school or extracurricular activities. In addition to finding that domestic and family tasks are thus more shared, we are also of the opinion that parents have the right to be alone with their children, as well as mothers are alone with their children. We also do not agree, and therefore do not follow them, with the proposals that make an excessive and dangerous relationship with women's equality in access to the labour market, progress in their careers and in their personal and professional achievement, associating the concern of breastfeeding with licenses. Today, in Portugal, we already have a balanced situation in terms of times for breastfeeding and breastfeeding, suggesting that parental leave should be an instrument for imposing options for breastfeeding, options that should be women's, diminish women's rights and can create obstacles to access to employment and their careers. More: we have a legislative framework which has been widely discussed throughout the last parliaments and which has been possible to improve. The framework we have in force still has a lot of room for other measures that increase parents' adherence to the sharing of the non-compulsory licence, which is still far from what they want. thus, it has always been one of the objectives of the current general framework of the definition of social public policies, in which it is expected to strengthen family protection, that its implementation is necessarily done gradually, ensuring that the system remains unchanged from the financial point of view and that it retains the levels of justice and fundamental trust to its sustainability. The evidence that much has been done, however, is that over the past four years there has been a 43 % increase in the Budget, about EUR 213 million, in more measures to protect parenthood. That is why we are committed to what the government is developing. And I highlight the importance of the measures promoted in the last six years: in 2019, there was the strengthening of parental leave, which involved an increase of EUR 69 million in the 2020 State budget, plus 11, 5 % ; the mandatory enjoyment of 20 working days of parental allowance, exclusive from the father, paid to 100 %; the extension of the licence for care to children with disabilities, with chronic illness or oncological disease, pays 65 %; in cases of premature and postpartum hospital admission, to which up to 30 days the parental leave, which can be increased until the baby is discharged hospital, which adds 30 days more when delivery occurs until 33 weeks, including. But parental responsibility is not limited to licences, and therefore the Government and the Socialist Party have ensured that support for the first child has been strengthened, with increased family allowance and increased until six years old, also for single-parent families, as well as the strengthening of the offer of daycare places, the PROCOOP programmes ( Programme for Celebration or Enlargement of Cooperation Agreements for the Development of Social Responses) and PARES ( Programme for the Enlargement of the Social Equipment Network ), while ensuring free access to 1. o is 2. the steps and also the promotion of universal access to the childhood garden, so important for support to the family, free distribution of school textbooks and the reduction of transport rates. Finally, too, and because the Government has already announced that in the next State budget it will consider measures in these same areas, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not see any reason to approve the initiatives under consideration at this time. However, the PS considers it necessary to continue promoting a public policy of reconciliation between work, personal and family life. To this end, the Government presented, in social consultation, the agenda for decent work, with the aim of promoting an agreement with the social partners, which improves the system of parental leave in a framework for the promotion of equality between women and men and promotes better management of working time, within the framework of the reconciliation of professional, family and personal life, and strengthens the work protection of informal caregivers. In this respect, it is also worth noting that a working group has been set up, as has already been said today, for conciliation issues, with the partnership of the Standing Committee on Social Concertation, to discuss these issues, and therefore we must also respect the working times of this group, which is being concluded. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore reinforces the importance of public policies to support families and positive kinship, which promote equality between parents and promote a more just, economic and socially more developed society and will continue to work for the protection of parenthood, as it has always done for children and families, our future and future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u51	We have completed the second item on the agenda. We move on to the third point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( Manuel de Sousa e Silva et al.) — For the urgent re-qualification of the National Route No 16, between the thermal baths of São Pedro do Sul and Vouzela. You have the floor to start this debate, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Road No. 16 ( EN16 ), built in the mid-30s of the last century, was a structural road of connection between Aveiro and Vilar Formoso until the opening of the Main Route No. 5 ( IP5), meanwhile transformed into a motorway, the A25. With the opening of the IP5 the traffic of this route was decreasing, being used mainly by the population for local and regional trips in the districts of Aveiro, Viseu and Guarda. However, in the region of Lafões, the 16th National Road remains the only route that connects the three headquarters of the municipality — St. Pedro do Sul, Vouzela and Oliveira de Frades. The portion of EN16 between the thermal baths and Vouzela, which is maintained in the protection of the infrastructure of Portugal ( IP ), with about 1700 m, remains the only access of the population of São Pedro do Sul to A25 and Coimbra, Porto and Lisboa. over the years, the populations of Vouzela and São Pedro do Sul and their local autarcas claimed the requalification of this section of the National Highway No 16, taking into account the insecurity of the road, preventing the normal movement of people and goods. In the face of the inertia of successive governments, in 2019 a petition was promoted, with more than 4000 subscribers, to this end. The pressure of the population was decisive in advancing the road retraining, however it has already been completed. It is important to remember that several times the Greens brought EN16 to Parliament, due to the need for its requalification, as was the case with the section crossing the Municipality of Oliveira de Frades, whose works were completed in 2014. Already in Ribeiradio, Oliveira de Frades, the population has been waiting for almost two years for works on the stairwell and support wall, on the crossing of the road of the Lady of Dolorosa. The talude crashed in December 2019, with the storm Elsa and the depression Fabien, affecting the circulation, which takes place only by a band and compromising its own safety. Once again it is necessary to repeat the danger that the movement of EN16, in Ribeiradio, and that the population has been waiting for the works for two years. Taking into account the examples of the National Road No. 16 in the area of the thermos of Vouzela and in Ribeiradio or the instability of the aspects of the National Road No. 228, which links Fataunços to Vasconha, in Vouzela, the Government was responsible, on a proposal from the Greens in the State Budget of 2021, to prepare a report on the state of conservation of the roads affected by the infrastructures of Portugal, as well as on the stems and support walls, strengthening the monitoring of these roads in order to ensure the safety and physical integrity of users. In view of this report and track monitoring, as proposed by the Greens, the Government will prioritise roads with the greatest risk of demolition and will schedule their interventions. We do not fail to remind the Government of that obligation. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the importance of the petition under discussion and to greet its subscribers, because their participation was decisive in unlocking the requalification of this section, allowing normalization of circulation and restoring security levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u53	The next intervention is for Mrs Carla Borges of the PSD. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my compliments: today, in this House, we appreciate Petition No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( Manuel de Sousa e Silva et al.) — For the urgent re-qualification of the National Route No 16, between the thermal baths of São Pedro do Sul and Vouzela. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the representatives of the 4503 petitioners here present in the galleries, leaving them a very special greeting. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reasons underlying this petition are clear and the subjects presented and the arguments made in the hearing to the petitioners leave no doubt. What is intended is the urgent requalification of a section of the 16th National Road between the thermal baths of São Pedro do Sul and Vouzela, built in the 1930s, and whose managing entity is the Infrastructures of Portugal, where, in only—note and underline! — 1, 7 km there are 13 curves! It's 13 curves, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in only 1700 m, in which the population of São Pedro do Sul continues to be the only access to motorway A25 and consequently to European markets. The imperative need for its requalification stems from several factors. Of course, because it is an extremely sinuous section of tracing, characterized by closed angle curves, as I said, developed in mountainous area, there has been a record of several collapses along the way, which undermines the safety of all its users. But, no less important, there is the fact that it is a high road traffic route of light and heavy, dealing with one of the main, if not unique, channels of movement of people, goods and goods, being the only access of the aquistas from the coast to the baths of São Pedro do Sul, whose importance for tourism and health is known and recognized by all. However, as it was clearly explained by the petitioners, the archaic characteristics of this route make it impossible for road traffic to be flown with the quality that the region needs. The lack of road safety has long put the economic and social development of this region at stake, and this is a barrier — I stress, a barrier! — for its development. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem that affects the region and concerns us. We're very worried about ourselves, PSD! This problem has been known for a long time. Not only is the problem known, as it is recognized the need for urgent intervention, an intervention appropriate to new times and its requirements. And so it is that, contrary to what the previous intervention wanted us to believe, since 2015 the infrastructure of Portugal puts this intervention in its plan of activities as a priority. To date, however, nothing has been done, and people are obliged to present this initiative to the Assembly of the Republic, and for this reason my congratulations. So the question must be asked: if so, what was the reason for nothing being done? For us, PSD, it is very clear: the lack of public investment in the last six years of socialist governance, as well as the lack of political will, both of the government and of the parties that support it in government, responsible for the approval of the budgets. They are responsible for nothing being done. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to be clear in our intentions and that is why I say that it is not enough for the Socialist Party and those who are supportive of the adoption of the Budget to beat their hands in their chests, as they did during the hearings to the petitioners, and to say that they are very concerned about the matter and then do nothing. And if the problem is budgetary, then the existing financial mechanisms are used to solve it, not allowing the same to remain outside, as happened with the Economic and Social Stability Plan and with the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ). We therefore consider that the investment in question is not only justified as clearly affordable, but also lacking the political will, as I have already said, for the same to be achieved. of our part, PSD, the contribution has already been made when, in 2015, this investment was considered in the plan of activities of the Infrastructures of Portugal and if the same was not executed, it was because there was a change of government, and what happened dropped it. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP and PEV rice.]] That is why we say that only political will is lacking! I finish by leaving a word on behalf of the PSD to petitioners and a challenge to PS. to petitioners I want to say that they can count on the PSD, can continue to count on us to, together, overcome this severe constraint for the development of the region, and it is up to the PS to be clear and consistent in its purposes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u55	You now have the floor on behalf of the NAP, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners. I'm still thinking a little bit about this last intervention. It is that this road needs requalification for decades and decades and, meanwhile, there were several governments, including the PSD! And for those who listen to them, it seems that this has ever been important to the right governments! We are talking again about requalification of roads in Portugal. It is not a single issue, it is not the first time nor will it certainly be the last time we are going to talk about it. The 16th National Road is an important route not only of the mere point of mobility among populations, but also an important engine of economic development. It was before A25 and it remains after A25. Both thermal tourism, trade and innovation are always the product of safe communication routes on which national roads are inserted. Obviously, this is what we are talking about today, about the safety of the people and who is going through this road. Lately, whenever we talk about requalifications, or construction, or new hospitals, etc. , the Government and the Socialist Party shake the PRR flag. However, in this case, the interventions in this particular section, which are so necessary, were never part of the projects, which were later removed from this plan. By the local authorities we still see some kind of retraining on the roads in Portugal, whether four or four years old, but in relation to the national roads no longer disguises itself. It is therefore essential that these roads are re-qualified for greater safety, for lower isolation of populations and, of course, for such an important cause for the NAP, for less environmental impact. Because we are not mistaken: a road in conditions, safe, is also, from an environmental point of view, an added value for our country. The question that I leave for reflection is the following: will the state of these roads finally be considered as a danger in our country? Or is it necessary for the government and the parties that have been in the government to feel like losing elections in order, for example, to make these investments happen within two years? Is that how you want to continue to make politics in Portugal? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u57	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP, to give the next intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP would like to begin by complimenting the petitioners. Indeed, the 16th National Road was built about 90 years ago and was an undisputed route of importance to Aveiro and Vilar Formoso, making this connection until the opening of the IP5 which was then converted to the A25 motorway. However, the National Highway No. 16 lost centrality and still maintained its relevance in certain sections at road level, of course, for more local, more regional travel, crossing many localities. The degradation of the road is not today, it is not yesterday, it is not the time of this petition. It has been many years and has indeed crossed successive governments for many years. The PSD, with its intervention, revealed that it has not yet digested the change of government operated in 2015 and confuses what it is to be in government and to have the executive power with what it is not in government and yet to propose solutions to the problems that are on the ground, as is the case of the CFP. [[PSD protests.]] For several years now—and we have been back to the petition—which have been frequent falling sediments of the Taluds, especially in winter, which has worsened, as already mentioned here, with the storm Elsa and with the depression Fabien, which have caused damage to the traffic and road safety of this road, as well as damage to agricultural crops due to the uprooting of sediments and debris. But it is also necessary to say this: in fact, the re-qualification project of the 16th National Road, in the section linking the spas from St. Pedro do Sul to Vouzela, has been dragged for too long, especially if we take into account that it was only 1700 m, filled with very sinuous curves, a road that serves the industrial zone, with continuous, intense traffic due to agricultural and metalmechanic activities. It led to the infrastructure of Portugal its requalification and it becomes difficult to understand the delays, when the project actually consisted of the IP activity plan for several years. The lack of timely IP initiative contributed to the worsening of damage and brought more disturbances to local populations. It is now important that there are problems that remain and that need urgent resolution, as is the case precisely with correcting the consequences of the collapses and interventions which guarantee greater security on the 16th National Road, avoiding accidents. The CFP advocates the need to develop better accessibility throughout the region, ensuring the right to move populations quickly, comfortably and safely, providing better conditions for the development of the economic, social and cultural activity of all those who live or work there, and advocates that the Government must assume its responsibilities so that this is a reality and that the problems are effectively solved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u59	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Rui Cruz, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dear Petitioners : Today we proceed to the analysis and debate of Petition No 52 / XIV / 1. the, whose first petitioner is Mr. Manuel de Sousa e Silva, to whom I comply, as well as all petitioners who have subscribed to this petition and who are reflected in their principles and objectives. I would also like to congratulate the President of the House of Vouzela, the President of the Municipal Assembly of Vouzela and the Vice-President of the Municipal Chamber of São Pedro do Sul, here present, to whom I greet and congratulate. I leave a note concerning the words of PSD Member Carla Borges, who forgets that this road has indeed been in trouble for many years. It's a 90-year-old road, as already said. The PSD notes that, in 2015, it identified intervention on this road as a priority, but forgot to mention that the PSD was government between 2011 and 2015. Have you forgotten, Mrs. Member? And what did the PSD do at that time? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The PSD, when it learned that it was leaving the government, planned an intervention on that road! Oh! ...it's a really regrettable thing! In addition, the PSD also forgets the mistakes it made in the region of Lafões, such as, for example, having planned the construction of the IP5, which was a very serious mistake for the whole region and which penalized it, with all the problems it brought, causing hundreds of deaths in the region due to a serious planning error, and later had to be built on A25. The PSD has also forgotten to mention this! I would also like to tell you that the PSD is at the point of proposing a lowering of tolls in this House, but when it reaches the State budget it votes against that low. PSD makes this demagogy permanently here in this House! [[PSD protests.]] But we're used to it. The same is true of the solution found for IP3, a possible solution that has the support of the autarchs, including the authority for which Mrs. Deputy was elected councillor. This authority defends the solution found by the Socialist Party. The PSD defends here something called the Way of the Dukes, which I do not know if it is the Way of the Dukes, if it is the Dukes and Sad Scenes... There in Tondela they say one thing and in Parliament they say another. But we're used to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's the PSD with two opinions, as we're used to. [[PSD protests.]] I'll give you time to step aside! [[Pause.]] This petition aims to draw attention to the urgent re-qualification of the 16th National Road, in the section linking the spas from St. Pedro do Sul to Vouzela, given the state in which this route is located. This 100-year-old road, more precisely, was in the past an important link between Aveiro and Vilar Formoso, which made it a route of great economic interest, because it allowed people and goods to be connected in various municipalities between the coast and the interior, thus connecting the Beira Litoral to the Beira Alta. Today, the section that is the target of this petition, between the baths of São Pedro do Sul and Vouzela, is the only one of all the 16th National Road that integrates the National Road Network, with all the remaining pieces being declassified or reclassified. The PS naturally recognises the constraints on the conditions under which this road is located, well described by the petitioners, and shares the concerns raised here, in particular those associated with the risk of road accidents and its most harmful consequences for the lives of those who use it. This is a road where death has already occurred because of its characteristics, in particular given the existence of many dangerous curves, and due to lack of maintenance, which has been happening for several years. But it also recognises the importance of this road section for the economy of the municipalities that pass through and, in particular, for thermal tourism, because it is the largest thermal centre in the country and the Iberian Peninsula, and for the companies that need to cross to develop their economic activities within that territory, in particular agri-food industry and the metal mechanics sector, with important regional and even national impact in economic terms and by the employment they generate, and which are literally on the margins and further away from the A25.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u61	So...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u62	Now that the country is taking up its economic activities after a long pandemic period, the requalification of this road has an even greater relevance, which will certainly contribute to the recovery of this region of the interior of the country and to territorial cohesion. It will allow more people to arrive safely at the spas, but also that they enjoy the whole tourist journey of undeniable beauty and that they visit more frequently the whole territory. Although being a small piece of 1, 7 km, it is, however, fundamental to economic and social dynamisation and is very important for the region. It is a journey that not only benefits those who visit it, but above all those who make an effort to remain in that territory. It makes sense, therefore, that all efforts are being made to, between the central state and the municipalities of Vouzela and São Pedro do Sul, establish a protocol that will allow, once and for all, overcome this problem. The PS knows that these municipalities are available for this and the government will certainly be available to overcome the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u63	The Bureau did not have the information, but found that there are autarchic present and other persons linked to the initiative of this petition, and therefore greets those present in the gallery. I now give the floor to Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have asked for the floor to leave a brief note of perplexity. I have, of course, the happiness of not knowing this road, but I know many others who will be so bad or worse than this one. That is, our road network is deeply degraded. And the perplexity is this: we have a huge tax burden on fuels and cars and this tax burden should correspond to the best road network in the world! Subsequent governments — successive governments! — for tens of years, the tax burden has increased on the car and fuel and has drastically decreased investment in the road network. It is this difference, this chasm that exists between the tax burden and the road network that I wanted here to make clear and that I think it must be a reason for reflection for all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u65	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, firstly, to greet the petitioners—and it is not indifferent to who they are, we are talking about autarches, representatives of business associations and many other citizens of the region— who claim what is fundamental to their lives, either from a personal point of view, in their regular travels, from a professional point of view and from the economic activities existing in this region, or in the attraction of people to the region, for example, for the tourism sector and for a specific area that exists in this region, which is that of thermalism. I believe that the petitioners do well to dispense that a debate of this importance in Parliament is an exchange of handkerchiefs between parliamentary groups and governments, whether it was this or whether it was what you did. If there is any obvious thing in this case that no one has done, nor the previous governments, nor the current government, nor those who vote in favour of the budgets! Therefore, many of us are involved in this responsibility. So I think it is much better to assume responsibility than to wear it from one hand to another and see how this issue, at the present point, can be discussed. We have, at the moment — yes, it is important to say — a government that, from the point of view of public policies in relation to communications and infrastructure, has an assumed priority, which is that of rail in contrast to that of road. But then we see that the Minister of Protection says that if it were him he would have solved the problems and that, after all, the problems are not solved because of the Minister of Finance! This, for us, brings the greatest concern, because if in the priority of this government, which is the railway, the minister of protection and the minister of finance are not understood, and we never again turn from the PowerPoint to the railway and to the concrete investment on the highway, which is not priority, we fear the worst. Therefore, what is crucial to say at this time, because we are on the eve of discussion of the State budget, is that it is not worthwhile for those who are in a position to approve the State budget to come later with excuses from the bad payer. Think very well before you vote in favour of the Budget. And I say 'think very well' because, indeed, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS — it is not a secret to anyone — does not think of voting in favour of this budget, but anyone who wishes to vote in favour of it does not come, a month or two later, say that, after all, it was very important to re-qualify the National Route No 16 because at this time these options are taken and that we need to ask the Minister of Protection, the Minister of Infrastructure, for clarification: there is or no money beyond the one who gets in the 'hole' of the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport)? Is there money or no money to put everything in the TAP's « hole », because of a wrong political decision by this government to reverse privatisation, now set up fundamental roads and invest in what is considered a priority? Because what you see is that so far there is speech for everything and money for nothing! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u67	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes, of course, to congratulate the more than 4000 petitioners who have mobilized around this issue, which is relevant to two councils, specifically St. Pedro do Sul and Vouzela. I also welcome the representatives here today, not only from the authorities, but also from the petitioners themselves. Whenever we have these debates about the need to re-qualify national roads which, as in the case of this, have decades of existence and which in many cases have not had re-qualification works over these decades, which is going to create problems for the future, above all we are also talking about a problem that has to do with territorial cohesion and how the governments of both the PSD/CDS and PS were successively looking at our territory and voting for the abandonment of the country. This debate is also played when we talk about accessibility and mobility, especially in the territories of the interior of the country. in this specific case, brought by the petition, we are talking about a relatively small section of 1700 m, but which, despite this, has great relevance, not only to the day-to-day populations, who have to use that route, but also from an economic point of view, for tourism, in particular for thermal tourism, which is of very great importance, particularly in the territory of São Pedro do Sul, while there is still this obstacle, let us say, so that it can have the best conditions for this same economic activity. In particular, the difficulties of this section, from a physical and technical point of view, have already been mentioned. The Left Block has said over the years that it is necessary to look at these territories, these national roads, and not just to place them on investment plans or on priority plans, either from the infrastructures of Portugal or from the government itself. In fact, these plans need to be out of the paper. in this case, there is will by the municipalities. There will have to be a willingness on the part of the government as well. It seems absolutely undeniable to us that this small section of 1700 m has a very great influence for the whole region, especially for some municipalities, but it is necessary that the existing project should be implemented once and for all. That is why the Left Block is going to hit, as it has done over the last few years in interventions with the Government: it is for this part to have this realisation as well. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u69	We have reached the end of this item on our agenda. We will enter the fourth point, which deals with the assessment of Petition No 41 / XIV / 1. a (Sebastião Manuel da Silva Lameiras et al.) — Construction of a new health centre in the parish of Quinta do Conde, municipality of Sesimbra, with a basic emergency service, together with Resolution Projects Nos 1064 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Construction of a new health center in Quinta do Conde, in Sesimbra, 1120 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, 1127 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Construction of a new health centre and basic emergency service in Quinta do Conde, 1134 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra, 1212 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, and 1231 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Construction of a new health centre in the parish of Quinta do Conde, in the municipality of Sesimbra. To begin the debate and present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall obviously begin by congratulating, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the more than 4000 petitioners, who are 4000 users of these public health services in Quinta do Conde, and thank not only for the exercise of participatory democracy, but also for the opportunity to discuss this matter. in this parish, as they say, well, petitioners, more than half of the users do not have a family doctor. This has obvious consequences, from the point of view of health care and from the point of view of the user, which is often without receiving the health care that should receive, in particular, the monitoring and surveillance of some health states, chronic diseases, etc. Certainly, they would be much better accompanied if they had a family doctor. The truth is that the situation that is reported to us in this petition has not improved since it entered until today. For example, in the group of health centres where the various functional units serving this parish are inserted, in September 2021 there were 54,621 users without a family doctor, more than 3400 than a year ago. That is, in the last year, in this group of health centers, where this parish is inserted, there are more users without a family doctor. In the Regional Health Administration where this parish is inserted, which is that of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, last year, from September 2020 to September 2021, the number of users without a family doctor increased from 635 000 to 728 000! There are almost 100 000 users without a family doctor in the last year in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley. At national level, the situation is equally bad and has worsened in recent times. From 2019 to this part, for example, there are, in the country, 400 000 users without a family doctor. In fact, in the last year and a half, the Government of the Socialist Party has repeatedly failed in terms of the allocation of family doctors and primary health care policies. And it's not just because of these numbers I went ahead. For example, in the last contest for family doctors, for the hiring of specialists in general and family medicine, the Region of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo, which is the worst, where there are fewer family doctors, with more than 50 % of their vacancies to be occupied. It is not due to lack of doctors, because these doctors were even trained in the National Health Service. More than 400 doctors had been trained in the National Health Service and had completed their specialization there. However, the vacancies were opened and were not occupied because, for some reason, several of these doctors, more than one hundred of the vacancies opened for Lisbon and Tejo Valley, i.e. more than half, found that the conditions they would find in the National Health Service were not enough for them to want to stay there to work. That, obviously, has causes. It has causes, for example, when the Government of the Socialist Party refuses to make real investment not only in primary health care but also in careers of professionals, in the question of the exclusivity and autonomy of health centres groups in order to be able to contract and make investments according to their needs. Returning to the question of Quinta do Conde, this situation is obviously aggravated by knowing, as we knew yesterday throughout the country, that, for example, the Setúbal Hospital Center, from a hospital point of view, is not being able to respond either. The petitioners say, well, that, after 20 hours, if they have any acute health situation, they must travel 20 km to Setúbal. In addition, an additional factor of gravity is that, often because of the lack of professionals in the Setúbal Hospital Center, emergencies also work intermittently, which led, in fact, yesterday, to the resignation of 87 professionals responsible for various services and departments of the same hospital center. I believe, therefore, that more than words of circumstance about health professionals and their importance in the pandemic and beyond the pandemic, it is necessary to do much more than what is being done and it is necessary to be much more operative where, often, the Government of the Socialist Party has been completely inoperative. What the Left Block brings to debate and vote is obviously a bet on primary health care, which goes by betting on the building, such a new health center in Quinta do Conde, but not only. It is necessary to ensure that there are measures to assign family physicians, family teams, with nurses, clinical departments, other valences and services, such as psychology, all users of this parish and all users of the National Health Service. It is also necessary to ensure that there is an extended care in this same health centre to ensure that health care is not stopped at 20 hours. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u71	Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the petitioners who are in the gallery and through them I also greet all the subscribers of Petition No 41 / XIV / 1. of which I had the honour to be rapporteur. Because of this petition, 4143 citizens request the construction of a new health centre, with a basic emergency service, in the parish of Quinta do Conde, in the municipality of Sesimbra. in this sense, they clearly justify this claim, presenting arguments with which we fully agree, which is why the PSD presented the Draft Resolution No. 1120 / XIV / 2. a, recommending that the Government take, in the short term, all the procedures and measures necessary for the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, with a basic emergency service. The PCP, the Left Block and the ENP also present legislative initiatives that appear to meet the aspirations of the petitioners, but what the Portuguese can not forget is that they are the same parties that support the government, approving successive State budgets which do not contemplate what is claimed by these citizens. With 33 879 inhabitants and 23 050 voters, Quinta do Conde, the youngest and largest parish of Sesimbra, due to its proximity to the cities of Setúbal and Lisbon and in view of its growth and development, it is today a hub of the region, both in the provision of services and in the commercial sector. It is true, however, that the demographic development in this locality located at the heart of the Setúbal peninsula has not been accompanied by the necessary strengthening of public services, especially in terms of the provision of health care. The parish has two health units, the Custom Health Care Unit of Quinta do Conde and the Family Health Unit Conde Saúde, which are manifestly insufficient to provide quality public service to the inhabitants of Quinta do Conde. It should also be noted that about 50 % of the local population do not even have a family doctor, as well as adequate primary health care follow-up. In addition, the shortage of health professionals, especially doctors, nurses, technical and operational assistants, demographic pressure, population ageing and the shortage of public transport. On the other hand, as already mentioned, during the night period, between 20 hours and 8 hours, there is no medical assistance in the area, being impracticable the Garcia de Orta Hospital, in Almada, and the Hospital de São Bernardo, both located more than 20 km from Quinta do Conde, ensure an effective and quality response, given its own conditionalisms. It is stressed that this latest SNS equipment faces serious problems due to the shortage of health professionals, as has already been mentioned, as well as the degradation of its facilities and the pressure resulting from the lack of responses from the Alentejo Coastal Hospital. This is a situation that has worsened in recent times and to which the Government has been unable to give a concrete and effective answer. Therefore, it is not surprising that until now the clinical director of the Setúbal Hospital Center has submitted the resignation of this post and denounced the lack of conditions that occur in this important institution health care provider of the SNS. With the resignation of 87 executive bodies at the Setúbal Hospital Center, 97% of the chiefs are resigning and the emergency service is in breach. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the population of Quinta do Conde cannot be condemned for this abandonment and insecurity as regards primary health care. The construction of a new health centre in this parish is undoubtedly a priority. We know that the Sesimbra City Hall has given way to building this health unit and is available to work in partnership with the Government to respond to the claim of the fifth counties. It is therefore important for the Government to strengthen investment in the SNS by building a new health equipment in Quinta do Conde, ensuring that it will be equipped with all the necessary health equipment and professionals for its proper operation, while also considering the need to provide a basic emergency service, appropriate to the resolution of urgent situations of lower severity of users. Since there is a broad consensus of the people and Parliament to achieve this demand of the people of Quinta do Conde, the political will of the government and of the parties that support it is necessary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u73	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic caused by the COVID-19 left more discovery of the deficiencies in the SNS. The situation is particularly visible in the Setúbal district, where there have been obvious signs of the need to strengthen health equipment, and Quinta do Conde is one of the most urgent cases. The crisis of hospital emergencies travels across the region, resulting in the referral of users from Setúbal and Barreiro to Almada, or from Almada to Setúbal. This is due to overcrowding in services and the lack of human resources to ensure the necessary emergency care, as, moreover, the news this week regarding the Hospital de São Bernardo made it even more evident. It is therefore important that the short term take all the necessary steps to build the new health centre in Quinta do Conde, equipped with all the material and human resources necessary for its proper functioning and a basic emergency service, thus ensuring an effective and quality response to primary health care and even ensuring that this unit will provide such care during a nighttime period, in order to guarantee the population access to proximity care. I thank the petitioners for bringing this issue to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u75	The next intervention is the CDS. Mr. Miguel Arrobas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 4000 petitioners who, through this petition signed by the representative Commission of the Public Health Services of the Quinta do Conde, brought to Parliament a matter which, in view of the legislative initiatives presented, brings together a broad consensus from the left to the right, regretting only that the PS has not taken a similar position. But in good rigour, the non-position of the PS is similar to that of the Government itself, if we remember that the Ministry of Health did not meet the request of the rapporteur. With regard to draft resolution No 1134 / XIV / 2. the, of the CDS, we emphasize essentially that the need for the construction of a new health center in Quinta do Conde is manifest. The Custom Health Care Unit and the existing Family Health Unit are manifestly insufficient. We cannot accept that the population served by this area of coverage does not have access to primary health care which it needs because of the enormous lack of family doctors assigned, and it is seen that of the 33 000 inhabitants only about 16 000 have a family doctor. It is not yet accepted that during the night, between 20 hours and 8 hours in the morning, people do not have the opportunity to address urgent situations of lesser gravity, which shows the need for the new health centre to have a basic emergency service. I wanted to recall that the difficulties in accessing primary health services have been many years, but with the COVID-19 pandemic they have worsened, as a result of the deviation of health professionals to respond to the pandemic and to the VOCID vaccination. The CDS has been advocating that it is urgent for the Government to draw up a plan for the recovery of activity in primary health centres, taking, from the outset, the measures necessary to provide all citizens with medical and family nurse, a promise, indeed, made and reiterated by the Prime Minister, but not only was it not fulfilled as are now even more people without a family doctor assigned than before the pandemic. I therefore conclude by once again greeting the petitioners and saying that the CDS hopes that these recommendations will all be approved and that the Government will comply with them. The population of Quinta do Conde deserves timely and quality access to health care that it needs, and for this reason, it is essential that a new health centre is built with the necessary human and material resources and that it is considered necessary and seriously the provision of a basic emergency service in this new health centre to be built. It's not all missing anymore. We have land, we have project of the City Hall of Sesimbra, the government is missing to do the rest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u77	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Start this intervention by the PCP Parliamentary Group directing a greeting to the Committee of users of Quinta do Conde, present here, welcoming her not only for the dynamization of this petition, which brought this topic and this discussion so relevant to this parish and to the municipality of Sesimbra, but also for the struggle they have carried out, together with the authorities, for the right to health of the populations of the municipality and also of the Quinta do Conde. It was, in fact, because of the struggle of the population, for the struggle that the Committee of Users has been working over the years that it was possible to build a health centre in Quinta do Conde, which unfortunately has no capacity to respond to the entire population of the parish. And here it is in the struggle for the construction of a new health center, in the struggle for the allocation of doctors and family nurses to the entire population of the parish of Quinta do Conde, in the struggle also for the strengthening of the provision of care, either through the creation of a basic emergency service in the parish, either through the strengthening of hospital care, or by the construction of the hospital in the municipality of Seixal, or by the strengthening of care in the Hospital Center of Setúbal. The PCP, being supportive and accompanying the demands of the population, brings the debate a project in which, among other things, it proposes that progress quickly and that the construction of the Quinta do Conde health centre be completed with the agility necessary to respond to the population, providing it with the health professionals and equipment to provide the care the population has right to. We also propose that measures be taken to assign a doctor and family nurse to the entire population of Quinta do Conde, as well as the strengthening of workers in primary health care and that a basic emergency service be established in Quinta do Conde, to function between 20 and 8 hours, to respond to acute disease situations, to this level of care. We all know — we also mentioned here — that by the struggle of the population, a health centre was built in 2012, but by several changes to its project, it has not been equipped with the ability to respond to the population of all the parish and this need for a new health center has been identified since then. It is expected that, given the number of people living in the parish, considering the difficulty of assigning family doctors to the population living in the parish, many of the inhabitants are not enrolled in the parish health center, so the number of non-family users is expected to be much higher than the one identified. The estimate is, in fact, that the number of users without a family doctor will be around 15 000. The problem is that in the current health centre, even if there are competitions for the hiring of more doctors, there is no capacity, there are no medical offices to accommodate more family doctors. The question of taking steps to assign a doctor and family nurse is a central issue, which the PCP has been accompanying, requiring measures to be taken in terms of the value of careers, in terms of the value of wages, in terms of working conditions, so that the family doctors who are trained in our country choose to perform functions in the National Health Service. And here too, by the government, there have been no answers needed to fix health professionals in the National Health Service. With regard to the need for a basic emergency service, I wanted to say that, in fact, the answers that exist today fall short of the people's needs. From 21 hours the only service available is the emergency service of the Hospital de São Bernardo. It is not the proper response, it is not enough for the needs of the population when many of the issues of acute disease could and should be resolved up to the primary health care level. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who also add the following: in fact, a number of difficulties have recently been reported that affect the Setúbal Hospital Center, but I remember that this set of difficulties is not from today, it already comes from behind, resulting from the disinvestment of successive PSD governments, the CDS, the Socialist Party, and it is necessary to take steps to effectively implement the extension of the hospital, with the construction of a new building. And I remember here that if it were for the PSD, it wasn't even progressing, because the PSD did not favourably vote on the proposal presented by the CFP here in the State Budget. [[Exactly! All right!]] [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u79	And if, in fact, there will be this advance and there has been the unlocking to move forward with the works, it was due to the PCP and its intervention here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u80	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u81	I shall conclude by saying the following: - and this has been the intervention we have had in relation to both the Setúbal Hospital Centre, both the units as a whole, but in particular for the parish of Quinta do Conde, and indeed have lacked answers — the replies by the Government, not only to ensure the number of professionals, but also the conditions for the National Health Service ( and we believe it is in the National Health Service) to have the ability to respond. This is the fight the PCP will wage. It is the struggle for which we are here, by the right to health, by strengthening the National Health Service. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u82	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Greens, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that has motivated this agenda, in particular those with us today to accompany the work, a greeting which naturally extends to the Committee of Public Health Services Users of Quinta do Conde, who has promoted and dynamized this same petition and which aims to build a new health centre in the parish of Quinta do Conde. A word also for the mayors of the municipality of Sesimbra, who were always by the people in the various initiatives that, over time, were promoting in defense of the right to health, some of which, moreover, also with the participation of the Greens, as happened in the public gallery that took place in Quinta do Conde in April this year. In anticipation, I would like to say that the Greens fully follow the concerns and objectives of the petitioners, and bring to discussion a legislative initiative that goes precisely to meet these claims and objectives. According to the available data, it is estimated that there are about 33 000 inhabitants in the parish of Quinta do Conde, of which only about 16 000 will have a family doctor, which means that more than 50 % of the population do not actually have any medical assistance. On the other hand, the population of Quinta do Conde has been finding that their right to health has been challenged by the various governments over decades. In fact, it was not the struggle of the populations, together with the authorities, the Municipal Chamber of Sesimbra and the Board of Freguesia of Quinta do Conde, nor the construction of the new facilities for the Quinta do Conde Health Centre, which was inaugurated in July 2012, would have seen the light of the day. Even so, these facilities saw their initial project changed, contrary to the opinion of the authorities, resulting in the change in a substantial reduction in its useful area, which proved to be absolutely insufficient for the needs of the population, which was recognised by the director of the health centre himself on the day of the inauguration and also by the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo. After nine years of its inauguration it has been confirmed that, indeed, these facilities do not provide adequate health care to the population of the parish of Quinta do Conde. It should also be noted that there is a candidature to European funds, already approved for the construction of the new health unit, of more than EUR 1 million shared by 50 %. This project is planned for the area of the former health centre and the City Hall of Sesimbra has already yielded six lots for its construction and has shown all the willingness to work in partnership with the Government in the realization of this important investment. Moreover, the urgency of the Hospitals of São Bernardo and Garcia de Orta cannot give a response and therefore it is also necessary to provide a permanent service of 20 hours to 8 hours in the morning in Quinta do Conde, since, in case of acute illness, patients have to travel to the Complementary Care of Sesimbra, if it is up to 21 hours, because from that time they will have to travel to the Hospital of São Bernardo, in Setúbal, or to the Garcia de Orta Hospital, in Almada. For this reason, it is not only the lack of health care that concerns the population, but also the lack of an efficient public transport network that hinders access to health care, particularly to users who do not have their own means of travel. therefore, together with the demand for the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, petitioners also demand, and well, the creation of a basic urgency that runs from 20 hours to 8 o'clock in the morning. Now, this is exactly what The Greens propose in this legislative initiative that we now present: the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, the creation of a basic emergency service that operates between 20 and 8 hours in the morning and that a family doctor be guaranteed for the entire population of Quinta do Conde. May it be this, because the populations of Quinta do Conde also have the right to access to health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u84	The next intervention lies with Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As mentioned earlier, the parish of Quinta do Conde has today more than 30 000 inhabitants. But if we went back 30 years, in 1991, it had about 8,000 inhabitants. This is why one of the highest rate of growth in the country, this growth obviously puts an obvious demographic pressure on all public services of that parish. This growth is felt in educational equipment, safety equipment and, of course, in health equipment, and that is why, as has already been mentioned, there is a shortage of family doctors, this problem that must be solved, and it is also felt in current health equipment facilities, in this case, in the current facilities of the Quinta do Conde Health Centre. That is why we understand that this is a legitimate aspiration, which is why we welcome the more than 4000 petitioners who delivered in this House the petition that gave rise to these draft resolutions, and we reiterate the need to build a new health center in Quinta do Conde. The Government is not, as it has already proved, unaware of this need to qualify the care facilities and health equipment of the Setúbal district. That is why we can say today that we have qualified health equipment. In fact, we have new health equipment at Pinhal Novo, at Torrão, at Alvalade do Sado, at Sines, and we have three more health units in Corroios, at Baixa da Banheira and at Upper Seixalinho, which will soon be operational. This effort has been, in fact, widespread throughout the country. We know that since 2015, since the Socialist Party is a government, there are more than 25 000 health professionals, and that the State Budget for 2021 has strengthened the National Health Service budget by more than 700 million euros and by more than 4000 professionals, which has been added to the already more than 1, 5 billion euros that the State Budget for 2020 and the Supplementary Budget have had. at the same time, and in recent years, the budget allocation has risen with the governments of the Socialist Party by about 6 % for the National Health Service, while during the PSD and CDS government it has fallen by about 1,8 %. Expenditure in the National Health Service since 2015 has consistently increased by more than EUR 2000 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u86	What about Quinta do Conde? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u87	Therefore, over the last few years, it was possible to recover from the structural disinvestment to which the Country and the National Health Service were subject during the governance of the right parties. This adds, of course, the country's effort to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and it is obvious that the non-COVID response was affected—was affected in Portugal, as it was worldwide. But this response was only possible because the National Health Service demonstrated a tremendous resilience and because the health professionals working in the National Health Service demonstrated a huge resilience and enormous capacity for work, once again and despite the structural disinvestment to which the National Health Service was subject at the time of the governance of the parties on the right. Soon we will begin the discussion of the State Budget for 2022, and this is also a good opportunity for these options to be shaped into proposals to improve a service that is provided to all Portuguese. Therefore, as I have already mentioned, if this is a legitimate aspiration of the residents of Quinta do Conde, what is less legitimate is the political use that can be made of this theme and that has also been trying to do with the construction of the Quinta do Conde health centre. The Government and the ARS ( Regional Health Administration ) of Lisbon and Tejo Valley have repeatedly stated that they consider this to be a priority investment in the Setúbal region. This investment, which is worth about EUR 1 million and a 10-month period of execution, has a public tender which has already been launched. In other words, what we will be able to look at and expect is that in the short term, Quinta do Conde can have a new health centre built, and that this reality will only be possible with this political use that often attempts to make such proposals and these kinds of needs of the people, but with the work and commitment that has existed by the Government of the Socialist Party, not only to provide the Setúbal district — despite the demographic pressure that exists not only in the parish of Quinta do Conde but in the whole district — of better conditions of care in the area of health, but also for the National Health Service to recover from the disinvestment it has suffered for several years. Therefore, we have good news about the construction of the new health centre in Quinta do Conde ; the competition has already been launched and what we hope is that, in the short term, this health centre will be a reality and the aspirations of the inhabitants of Quinta do Conde will be realized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u88	You now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by congratulating all the signatories and thanking them for their mobilization to improve the health conditions of about 33 000 people from the parish of Quinta do Conde in Sesimbra, who are fighting for this already presented by the previous speakers, that is, the construction of a new health centre and the existence of a basic emergency service that responds to the needs of the population, especially in the nighttime. What we know is that, in case of acute illness, the nearest emergency service of this parish is located in a hospital about 20 km away. We all know that this hospital has been mentioned here today by several speakers, the Setúbal hospital, has had serious problems, which have not been resolved by the government. In fact, yesterday we became aware of the block resignation of 87 doctors, despite the constant warnings by these health professionals over time. In addition, these warnings led the PAN Parliamentary Group to call in March of this year the directors of service of the Setúbal Hospital Centre to the Parliamentary Health Commission, so that their difficulties could be heard and their proposals presented. But as far as we know, from here to here, nothing has changed. We also know that, in this parish, about 50% of people do not have a family doctor, which is in clear contradiction with what the government has fought for and with the objectives it has proposed. This is in a country where we even have doctors in a state of unemployment. We are also talking about a parish where the existing health centre, opened in 2012, already indicated at that time a clear inability to respond to local needs, and the nearest hospital that can respond to these needs is in a rupture situation. I will put a number of questions to the Government, making it clear that the NAP will monitor all the projects presented here today. Basically, what is the government waiting for to solve this problem, including a land and a construction project, a candidacy for Community funds? What is the government waiting for, at the bottom, to bring out the door which allows the response to these people to be agile? We want to make it clear that health is a right of all and cannot be treated by the government with quick thinking. Yes, it needs responses of proximity to people in order to ensure what the government has done.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u90	Over time, the Bureau did not mention that the gallery representatives of the petitioners are present, to whom it wishes to offer a greeting. Mrs Fernanda Velez has the floor for an intervention during the remainder of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is important to remember that the Socialist Party, with the support of the extreme left parties, has been ruling since 2015, that is, six years ago! They are six years of government, four of which the economic and financial situation of our country was quite different from that which Pedro Passos Coelho faced and which forced him to rule with the intervention of the troika, called by then Prime Minister José Socrates! In six years of government, the PS did nothing to solve the problem of the population of Quinta do Conde : the right to access primary health care in the SNS. This is the reality! Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS and the extreme left, stop blaming the PSD/CDS government for what you could and should have done, assume your responsibilities! It is time for this government to move on to action, outlining the health policies appropriate to the needs of all users. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by MPC Members Paula Santos and PEV José Luís Ferreira.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u92	Mr Miguel Arrobas, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to speak to Mr Ivan Gonçalves, who, in speaking, accused himself of making political use of the subject under discussion. Now, I want to tell you that, more than quoting numbers or constantly looking to the past, talking about what has been done or has stopped doing, as the PS so much likes, it is up to you today to ensure that the subscribers of this petition, here present, leave here with the certainty that this health centre will be a reality. As you have said, Mr President, there will be conditions for this to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u94	With no further registrations, we shall proceed to the vote. Since all the benches are already ready for the votes, we will begin by voting on the Draft Vote No. 681 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL ) — Despite the death of Vítor Feytor Pinto. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to her reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u95	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last October 6, at the age of 89, Father Vítor Feytor Pinto, a proa figure of the Catholic Church in Portugal, which leaves an important legacy for his involvement in issues related to health and civil society. Born in Coimbra in 1932, Father Vítor Feytor Pinto integrated the Seminary of the Fundão and was ordained a priest at the Diocese of Guarda in 1955. His life and work were greatly influenced by the Second Vatican Council, of which he was a fervent divulner. Father Feytor Pinto was also linked to the reflection on the Pastoral of Health and the defense of fundamental rights, also highlighting his work, over several years, as responsible for the parish of Campo Grande. In 1982, he was responsible for organizing the visit to Portugal of Pope John Paul II, a moment that he remembered as of great happiness. In 2005 he was appointed Monsignor by Pope Benedict XVI. In addition to the National Commission of the Pastoral Health in Portugal, that he was coordinator, he has over decades assumed several responsibilities, within and outside the Church, notably as a member of the Pontifical Council for Health Professionals or of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences. In the memory of all of us will remain their intellectual stature and the humanist and solidarity dimension, independent of ideological inclinations, which have been evidenced, for example, in their strong involvement in health issues and civil society, in particular in the defense of the National Health Service and its fundamental and universal value, as well as in the fight against drug addiction drama. But it is above all the human dimension of Father Feytor Pinto that will remain in the memory of all those with whom he could deprive. The way in which he never allowed his erudition to prevent him from being humble, that his responsibilities prevent him from having time for those most needing his friendly word, are testimonies of the greatness of his spirit. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret over the death of Father Vítor Feytor Pinto, conveying to his family and friends as well as to the Catholic Church, the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u96	Thank you, Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are in the galleries a niece and nephew of Father Feytor Pinto and still the parish priest Hugo Gonçalves, to whom I once again present my condolences not only institutional but also personal. We shall proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote No 681 / XIV / 3. a [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We'll respect a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we will continue with the general vote of four bills, respectively, of the PS, the PAN, the Left Block, and of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues. They inform me that they can be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u97	I am sorry, Mr President, but it is not possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u98	Mr President, what do you propose as a faster alternative?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u99	Mr President, I propose that the NAP bill be voted on separately. The rest of us can vote together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u100	Therefore, we will vote together, in general, the Bills Nos 780 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation in eligibility for blood, 945 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ) — prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and sexual characteristics in blood donation and 947 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Other Law No. 37 / 2012 of 27 August, preventing discrimination in blood donation due to sexual orientation. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These diplomas are down to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 943 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Promotes blood donation and prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation in eligibility to give blood. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] This diploma also falls to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u101	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u102	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u103	It is only to inform us that we will present a declaration of vote in writing on the basis of this difference in vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u104	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 111 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — regulates the use of surveillance systems by video cameras by security forces and services. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the deputies of the PS Cláudia Santos and Isabel Alves Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS Deputies Bruno Aragão and Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u105	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u106	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u107	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u108	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. José Magalhães of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u109	Mr President, I would also like to make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u110	It is also registered, Mr. The proposed law now adopted is lower than 1. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 988 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Acquisition of load chambers ( bodycams) for service vehicles and video surveillance in teams and stations. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and PS Members Cláudia Santos and Isabel Alves Moreira and PS, IL and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote on Resolution Project No 119 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — By strengthening investment and valuing security forces. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, PEV, IL and the non-registered Ms Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1268 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Recommends the use of cameras by national security forces agents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions against the PSD, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We then vote several projects on the Carnaxide greenhouse. If there is no opposition, we can vote for them together.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u111	Mr. President, I had asked for the PS draft resolution to be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u112	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we better vote one at a time, because it's faster. This methodological discussion then drags. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 754 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Classification of Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS and IL.]] We continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 772 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of Carnaxide greenhouse as a protected landscape. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 782/ XIV/2. a (PEV) — Visa the classification of Carnaxide greenhouse as a protected landscape. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 802 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government classify the Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No. 1169 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the safeguarding and exploitation of the Carnaxide greenhouse. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We shall generally vote for draft resolution No 1196 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government protect the Carnaxide greenhouse. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1246 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By preserving the Carnaxide greenhouse and its enjoyment by the populations. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] The draft resolutions on the Carnaxide greenhouse which have just been approved are down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 1066 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Establishment of a national register of type 1 diabetes. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We will generally vote for Resolution Project No. 1213 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishment of a national register of patients with type 1 diabetes. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the IL.]] We then generally vote for Resolution No. 1256 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Concretization of a national register of type 1 diabetes. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1443 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation and implementation of a single national register of type 1 diabetes in Portugal. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Type 1 diabetes resolution projects now approved are down to 9. the Commission. We will now vote on the requests submitted by the respective authors to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bills No 622 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates an prenatal parental leave and an prenatal parental allowance by making the eighth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 to the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and to the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 643 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Promotes equality in the exercise of parental responsibilities by establishing a joint initial parental leave, 857 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the protection of lawyers in case of parenthood, 841 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Approves measures to strengthen parental protection, for the purpose of the sixth amendment to the Labour Code and the sixth amendment to the legal system of social protection in parenthood within the framework of the social security system and the solidarity subsystem, and 948 / XIV/3. a ( BE ) — Enlarges and guarantees the allocation of the initial equal parental leave in terms of gender, single-parent families and through adoption, extends the father's exclusive initial leave and the exemption for breastfeeding, breastfeeding and child follow-up ( the twenty-first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, the fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April and the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 524 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — By increasing the parental leave allocated to the country’s mothers and parents, thus contributing to a strengthening of family ties and, consequently, the birth rate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against CH and abstentions against PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 956 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — Exceptional support for single parents and numerous families. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] With no objection, we will vote together, in general, on Resolution Projects Nos 1064 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Construction of a new health center in Quinta do Conde, in Sesimbra, 1120 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, 1127 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Construction of a new health centre and basic emergency service in Quinta do Conde, 1134 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra, 1212 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, and 1231 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Construction of a new health centre in the parish of Quinta do Conde, in the municipality of Sesimbra. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] These draft resolutions are down to 9. the Commission. Then we will vote on draft resolution No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Temporary stabilization of small-scale and small-scale fishing and aquaculture. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN and IL and abstentions from PS and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 95 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Programme to defend the fishing of the fence and its professionals. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD, the NAP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u113	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u114	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u115	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u116	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues also asks for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u117	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u118	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1439 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of public policies for an effective fight against hate crimes in Portugal. Having requested a point-by-point vote by the PSD, we shall begin by voting point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on point 4 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 5. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP and CH.]] We now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1343 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends the installation of external automatic defibrillators (DEE) in all sports and schools and the strengthening of basic life support training. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 1320 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government measures to strengthen electrical mobility, 1340 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — By strengthening incentives for the acquisition of velocipedes with or without electrical assistance for urban and suburban journeys and 1402 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen incentives for cycling active mobility under the Environmental Fund. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the abstention of the IL.]] We now move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on the Proposal for a Law No 109 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Creates the possibility of fixing maximum marketing margins for simple fuels. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralisation and Local Power on the Proposal for a Law No 107 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the terms of the term of office in the half-time of the holders of the board. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u119	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u120	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u121	Mr President, it is to ask that my point of vote regarding the vote on the Bill No 111 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Regulates the use of video camera surveillance systems by security forces and services as abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u122	It is registered and will be corrected, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u123	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u124	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u125	Mr President, it is to require the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies in respect of the bill we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u126	There is no objection, so it will be done. Before reading the agenda for our next session, I would like to ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file which has now entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u127	Mr President, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to draft resolutions Nos 1467 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 8. the Commission, and 1468 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-08.u128	Mrs. Members, the agenda for the next plenary session, to be held on Wednesday, 13 October, at 3 p.m., which was requested by the PS, will have as a single point the discussion of Bill No 974 / XIV/3. a ( PS ) — Amendment to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January and Law 53 / 2015 of 11 June with a view to strengthening the public interest, autonomy and independence of regulation and promotion of access to professional activities. Good weekend and until the week. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 55 minutes.]]
