ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] As you know, the first item on the agenda consists of elections of several external bodies: four judges for the Constitutional Court ; four members for the Higher Council of Information, six members for the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals and President and two members for the Independent Committee for the Monitoring and Monitoring of Special Public Contract Measures. These elections are taking place in the Senate Chamber, and I therefore ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, they will shortly carry out their duty as citizens of the European Union. We will start the second point on our agenda, which corresponds to the debate, with the participation of the Government, concerning the state of the European Union, as provided for in Article 4 ( c ). the Law on Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. To open the debate, I call on the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Augusto Santos Silva, to congratulate the other members of the Government here present. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reason for this debate is the speech on the state of the European Union, delivered on 15 September by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. It is fair to start by noting this year's balance sheet, which took place between September 2020 and September 2021, to which the President of the European Commission, of course, referred in her speech and which, in my view, is worth stressing, because it is a very positive balance sheet, in particular in the assembly of the vaccination process, the joint acquisition of vaccines and the vaccination strategy, which has produced such good results throughout the European Union, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the betting on a recovery process of the economy as quickly as possible, with the approval of the multiannual financial framework, with the launch of the recovery and resilience instrument and the approval of several national recovery and resilience plans. Portugal, through the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which held paragraph 1. this year's semester has contributed a lot to this positive balance sheet. On the other hand, in the fight against the pandemic, we have contributed to the early adoption of a legislative process in the European Union — I refer to the approval of the CCID-19 Digital Certificate — and also to the coordination of pandemic control policies in the 27 Member States and the launch of the European Union for health. With regard to economic recovery, the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union contributed greatly, with the adoption of all the regulations indispensable to the multiannual financial framework, the adoption of the Regulation of the instrument of recovery and resilience, the ratification in all Member States of the Union own resources decision and the approval of the first recovery and resilience plans. But the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, paragraph 1. this year, it also launched future seeds, to which the President of the European Commission, in his speech of last 15, followed up. Among these themes of future launched or pushed during our presidency, I limit myself to stress these three: firstly, the Social Summit and the adoption of the action plan for the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights; secondly, the Climate Law and the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy; and thirdly, the summit with India and the new attention it has designed for the Indo-Pacific region and the need for a geopolitical and geostrategic balance in this region. Therefore, the first conclusion, which I believe is obvious, is that the balance sheet of the year between September 2020 and September 2021 of the European Commission was largely positive and for this reason also contributed greatly to the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Portugal values many of the central elements of the speech of the President of the Commission. Firstly, the focus of this speech and therefore our political attention, our political priorities in youth and the launch of the new Alma programme for the exchange of young professionals between Member States. Secondly, support for vaccination worldwide. We have a very important outcome in vaccination within the European Union, but we must never forget that we ourselves will be protected only when everyone on Earth is protected. hence the commitment to invest at least EUR 1000 million in vaccine production capacities in Africa; the commitment already assumed of 250 million vaccines donated to developing countries and the new undertaking now assumed of more than 200 million vaccines of donation to developing countries. All of this represents a new effort, which allows the European Union to honour its own responsibilities in contributing to the universalization of vaccination. Thirdly, in the President's speech we value the determination on the climate agenda, in the green transition and, above all, the awareness that this transition, to succeed, must be based on the European Pillar of Social Rights, on the European social model. From this point of view, the creation of the social fund for climate is a step, which is not sufficiently important for all to be aware of what was one of the main results of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council: the idea that we win the dual digital and climate transition if we strengthen the European social model. Fourthly, in the President's speech, I would like to stress the importance of Europe's technological sovereignty, which has a very concrete translation, for example, in overcoming the current difficulties in supplying our industrial production into semiconductors. Therefore, the new legislative act proposed by the Commission is welcome, as we welcome this focus on Europe's technological sovereignty. Finally, I would like to stress in the President's speech also the idea that Europe must have its own global strategy of connectivity, it must also be a global actor in this essential area, which is the domain of transport and communication infrastructures, digital communications and human mobility at global level. It is therefore worth contributing to the European debate on the future and I am sure that this debate, which we will have in Parliament today, will be an important contribution to this European debate on the future. And my ideas about the future will keep them for the final intervention, because I will thus allow them to be enriched by the speeches of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u3	The first intervention is for the PS Parliamentary Group, starting with Mrs Isabel Oneto. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: Two months ago in this Chamber, the debate on the state of the Union focused on uncertainty about the future. The agreement on the multiannual financial framework and the Next Generation EU programme, nor was there any vaccine against the SARS-CoV-2 virus, accentuated the economic and social crisis and Portugal was preparing to take on the Presidency of the Council, defining five priorities under the motto « Time to act: for a fair, green and digital recovery » — and acted. At this distance and against the criticisms and doubts in the opposition, the Portuguese Presidency was able to make a decisive contribution to the new stages of Europe, which are reflected in the speech and letter of intent which precedes the European Commission's work programme for 2022. In the field of health, under the Portuguese Presidency, the first steps were taken in the construction project of a European Health Union which, two weeks ago, saw one of its main components, namely the launch of the European Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Authority. In record time, the European Union's Digital Certificate COVID, which allowed the President of the European Commission, in his balance sheet on the Union, to welcome the issuance of more than 400 million certificates throughout Europe. More importantly, we have started the vaccination process, reaching today with 70 % of the European adult population vaccinated and having Portugal reaching the 85 % target, which allows the European Commission to place, now, as the first priority in its programme, the acceleration of vaccination worldwide, since the European Union has an additional 1800 million doses, guaranteed for when we, Europeans, need to administer reinforcement doses, but also for our neighbours. President von der Leyen's speech highlights the theme he has designated as good news, referring to the Next Generation EU Programme, which will now allow, and I quote, "to invest in both short-term recovery and long-term prosperity". At a good time the Portuguese Presidency placed as its first priority the resilience of Europe, based on two plans: that of the economy and social cohesion, on the one hand and on the other, the value plan, because it was under the Portuguese Presidency that the Prime Minister signed and formally approved the Recovery and Resilence Mechanism, allowing the national recovery plans of the Member States to be financed today throughout the Union. It is important to highlight here the lesson that the President of the Commission referred to in his speech on the state of the Union: the financial effort made to support European workers, families and businesses to sustain the economic and social crisis in the pandemic has proved that this is the way of austerity, unemployment, wage cuts, so that the sovereign debt crisis has pushed us and that we only recovered eight years later. The European Commission itself recognises that there was, after all, an alternative. In terms of values, it was also time to act. in this field, Portugal has acted, in unlocking a process stopped for more than two years, proceeding to the hearing of Poland and Hungary, as it has definitely launched the Conference on the Future of Europe, despite some position — here and in the European Parliament — to predict that the Portuguese Government would be unable to carry out or, worse yet, did not want to achieve it. Today, the Conference is at a cruise speed. Allow me, Mr President, to welcome Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic and Mr President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos, for his strong commitment and contribution, recognised by his European peers, to the success of the Conference on the Future of Europe. I can still point out the relevance that the Commission Presidency gave in its speech to the European Pillar of Social Rights, which only in the voice of our opposition did not achieve the Portuguese Presidency at the Port Summit more than a mere declaration of intent. Today, the achievement of the objectives defined at the Port Summit is one of the pillars of the evaluation of national recovery and resilience programmes and their development is a goal of the Commission's 2022 programme. Minister, the pillars are thrown. Now, we need to start the execution, start the time—and we are in the time of implementation. One of the greatest challenges facing the European Union today is the building of its resilience capacity, its strategic autonomy, which accompanies the process of economic recovery. Mr Minister, the question I would like to put to you is to know how we can ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises, vital to our economies, will be a driver of economic recovery and European reindustrialisation, ensuring our growth and our autonomy in strategic sectors for Portugal and the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u5	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Brás has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: in this debate on the state of the Union, I would like to ask the Minister a question of foreign policy, which has exactly to do with the situation in Afghanistan. Last August, we all watched, a little surprised—and watched the whole world—the images of chaos, with the departure of the Western troops from Afghanistan. Chaos at the airport, nearby chaos, fall from Cabul to the hands of the Taliban in just over 24 hours. Mr Minister, the question you are asking is how was this possible? Oh, my God! What have we been doing there for 20 years? Oh, my God! And I say 'we have been', because there have also passed 4600 Portuguese military. What's wrong? Where were the intelligence services? Where was the information needed to prevent? What could we have done differently to at least evacuated all those who worked with us and the other Western powers? I would also like you to explain to us some of the reasons on which migration, asylum or refugee support policies the Union has to deal with this crisis. Earlier today, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi said it is time to save lives in Afghanistan. What does the European Union intend to do, from a humanitarian point of view, to help Afghans who are in such great difficulties? And from a political point of view, I would also like to know what the European Union's position is with regard to the Islamic Emirates of Afghanistan and the need for recognition which they themselves also feel. On the other hand, Mr Minister, I would ask you, if there is any time, to update us on the situation of the mission in Mozambique, particularly in the province of Cabo Delgado. What is the situation? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u7	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u8	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: One of the priorities announced by Ursula von der Leyen, in his speech on the state of the Union, was « ensuring that no virus will transform a local epidemic into a global epidemic ». I believe that this priority is probably a utopia because it is so impossible to contain a virus in the global era, like stopping the wind with your hands. What the European Union has to do is not depend on the blocs or external countries, as happened in 2020 — so that Europe and its States, including Portugal, are not choked by the lack of adequate medical equipment — with experts who draw a robust model, particularly at industrial level, to attack the next health crisis. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like to ask what reindustrialisation effort the Government intends to make, because this issue is aligned with another priority of the Union, which is economic and financial recovery, towards sustainable prosperity. Are the State and national companies, Minister, prepared to respond to a new viral threat? The Government and in particular the Prime Minister, general of the bazouca, have for the last few weeks been announcing millions and millions of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ). It happens that the national PRR is very focused on public works, but has forgotten about SMEs ( small and medium-sized enterprises ). Dr. António Costa promised a motherhood for Coimbra, a motorway for Viseu, EUR 1000 million for municipalities to manage the transfer of competences, but he was unable to give us a single investment that the government has made for Portugal. Coelima closed in Guimarães, Dielmar closed the activity in Alcains, Saint Gobain fired 130 workers in the Loures unit and what does the government do? Nothing! The only brilliant statement — in the true meaning of the word — came from the Secretary of State of Internationalization, when he stated "we won with the COVID-19". Portugal won with the pandemic, imagine! We have a Secretary of State in illusion and we have a Prime Minister in denial. Mr Minister, even in the business support chapter, the price of electricity, as we know, is a factor of competitiveness, and Portugal is one of the countries of the Union with the most expensive electricity. However, the government preferred to forgive taxes on EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), as it did on the sale of dams in Douro, instead of ensuring that companies have energy tariffs at affordable prices...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u10	...or, at least, that the nearly two million Portuguese don't go cold at home. Cold for two million Portuguese and a chill for the remaining 10 million who pay taxes. Can we trust a government that lets EDP escape with EUR 110 million of seal tax and, if not, prepares increases on the liberative rates on Portuguese savings? Mr Minister, what morality is this of a government that allows to sell dams, without paying taxes, but whose citizens run the risk of being crushed by taxes if they have property or income in the bank? In short, we are still out of line with the Union's priorities, which in Portugal is the state of de-governance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u11	Even in the parliamentary time of the PSD, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Sérgio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: In a situation that is still very marked by the pandemic, a debate on the state of the Union cannot fail to take a moment for the outermost region. The COVID-19 caused the biggest global public health crisis in the last 100 years, caused the deepest economic and social crisis in recent decades, events that, in a sensitive and vulnerable space like that of the outermost region, were felt with particular violence. The row of tourism-related activities, the main economic activity in these regions, was devastated. Public debt, but also private debt from households and businesses, has increased significantly. Unemployment, poverty and social inequalities have grown. European solidarity was crucial in the response to the health crisis, in the immediate aid to the purchase of missing medical equipment and equipment, in the provision of large-scale vaccines. European solidarity is now crucial for the reconstruction and renewal of the economic and social fabric, so deeply damaged by the pandemic. The Recovery and Resilience Mechanism is already in operation. The new multi-annual framework for structural funds is soon to come, but there is no need, Mr Minister, as well as the presidents of the outermost regions, at the meeting held in the Azores in May last, for the urgent definition of a new European strategy for the outermost regions. A new strategy that takes into account the tremendous economic and social impact of the pandemic, which promotes greater social cohesion and ensures a digital and ecological transition with equity and justice in these regions, a new European strategy that helps the outermost regions to address, in the words of the President of the European Commission, the most serious global crisis ever: climate change. I know that the European Commission is already working on this dossier and that it has even opened a public consultation. I know that the Government and, in particular, the Secretary of State for European Affairs are following up on the matter, but, Minister, we all have to act urgently. European action on this issue has to be as fast as it was with regard to the approval of the COVID-19 Digital Certificate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u13	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u14	I'm done now, Mr. President. The prosperity of the outermost regions, the well-being of their peoples requires this preeminence. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u15	Mr Fabíola Cardoso, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u16	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Minister, the Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Members and all the people involved in this debate on the state of the Union. For several decades Portugal and the European Union have been affirming themselves in the geopolitical field under a logic that favours NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the United States. All EU guidance sheets in the world are used according to this vision, which is a strategy itself and Portugal in particular has followed with complete discipline and reverence. There are two recent events that undermine this strategic vision. First, the way the United States left Afghanistan. in what is public, they did - without involving NATO or the European Union partners and leaving behind a trail of tragedy to which we cannot remain indifferent. Secondly, the recent ground on which France — and with it the European Union — suffered with the cancellation of the submarine sale agreement to Australia. Once again, the United States has completely ignored its 'preferential' relationship with the European Union and has shown no interest in respecting relations between States. The current situation is that while European leaders define Europe's position in the world according to the United States, on the other side of the ocean do not care at least about Europe. From this point of view, the state of the Union today is orphaned, precisely because it has lost its lighthouse. The question now is: how does Europe want to assert itself in the world? With what values, objectives and strategy? Does Mr Minister agree with the statements by President Ursula von der Leyen in his speech on the state of the Union that a European Union of Defense is missing? Is this the answer from Europe? Do you agree that 'the next level' is that of militarization, that of the increase in the enormous military expenditure? The VAT exemption (value added tax ), as proposed, to encourage the arms race? A European Union that gives up peace? What was really fundamental — in which Europe had already said that it wanted to be a world leader and where it even stood out from the United States — was the environmental issue. The UN ( United Nations ) recently published the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Science is clear: after all, it is not doing enough. We're walking too slowly and climate change is moving too fast. Europe is losing the opportunity to make a difference. On the other hand, the European Court of Auditors has now confirmed what we all already knew, but some of us were pretending not to know: that the European Union is not doing enough to channel funds for sustainable activities. There is a lack of measures that respond to the environmental and social costs of unsustainable economic activities. That same report also says that the European water policy is, and I quote, « a handful of holes », because support for agriculture is not in line with the environmental policies that the Union says it defends. There are so many exceptions to the agricultural sector that there is still a serious impact on water resources. The title of the report, which I quote, is clearer than the Tejo water, Minister : « CAP funds are more likely to promote the increase in water use than their efficiency ». Mr. Minister, as Greta Thunberg said at the youth meeting, one month before the start of COP26 (26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties), enough bla, bla, bla about the climate, enough to say one thing and do the same always. What do we say to the younger generations, Minister? What future for Europe? This is the true state of the European Union: it is unearthing, with militaristic deliriums, in a house that is burning. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u17	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : When it comes to the state of the Union, there is a balance sheet on the options of the European Union, its current objectives and results that we cannot fail to evaluate critically. In the face of the pandemic, we have a European Union that is bent on defending the interests of multinationals and economic groups. The speech by the President of the European Commission proclaimed solidarity, donations, in this geopolitics of the vaccine, but it was the widespread public resources that paid for research, production, early purchase of vaccines. The multinationals have taken ownership rights and blocked the fastest advance of vaccination in the name of profit, and have the systematic opposition of the European Union to patenting to defend its interests. Will the government continue to support this policy that puts profit above human life, Minister? Moreover, will the Government continue to watch the inhumane blockade, which is being done in Portugal, in the management of the New Bank, of billions of dollars that are active in a sovereign state, including blocking the acquisition by that State of 13 million vaccines and 30 million syringes, as recently happened? In the New Bank, payment was prevented, fully regular and validated by the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, from providing vaccines and other goods by the Pan American Health Organization. The government has nothing to say, Minister? On the other hand, we have the mobilization of Community funds — only now initiated and conditionally — subject to the priorities defined by the European Union, not based on the realities and problems facing each country, not aiming at overcoming structural deficits of economies in countries such as Portugal. Within the framework of the PRR and the Financial Framework 2021 - 27, the implementation of which puts obvious delays to the needs, is a framework of significant constraints on the use of funds. Moreover, the Government has concluded that the mobilisation of these funds is subordinated to macroeconomic conditionality rules and the so-called "structural reforms" which are being imposed on Portugal, interfering with its development options and hampering the necessary response to the problems of workers, the people and the country. In the meantime, the prospect of regaining the Stability Pact and its draconian constraints is placed. It is the return to the dictatorship of the deficit, which has promoted the degradation of public services, particularly health. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we reiterate: what is required is the final repeal of this covenant. What is the Government's position on this replacement of the Stability Pact? From this state of the Union, it is also important to point out other relevant aspects which have included, in fact, the prestigious cooperation of the Government in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, a social summit which confirmed the intention to continue convergence in important areas: in the threat of deindustrialization of countries such as ours, the pretext of the green transition, with the consequent unemployment and increased dependence; in a common agricultural policy, which maintains an unfair distribution of resources, resources and income and which promotes the concentration of production; and now, in the speech of the President of the European Commission, with the announcement of new military escalation and policies of interference and aggression when he speaks of the world's most advanced military forces to, soon afterwards, leave the left question 'if he is ever willing to use them, what is his usefulness? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Is this also the thinking of the Government, Minister? [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In view of this situation and this state, what is confirmed is that the European Union's options and impositions are truly part of the problem and not part of the solution for the peoples, particularly for the Portuguese people. What is required is a breakdown in the face of these options and the construction of a true alternative that defends the development and sovereignty of the country; that is, in fact, at the service of workers and peoples; that points to a path of mutual respect, cooperation, solidarity and peace. It is in this alternative that the PCP is committed. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u19	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u20	Mr President, Minister, Mr Secretary of State : at a time when, fortunately, the response to the pandemic is already at a much more stable stage, there are other issues that arise in the European debate and which are very relevant, some of them until after we have passed the most critical phase. My first question concerns exactly that and the question of budgetary discipline in the European Union. The Minister admitted — and, of course, this is under discussion at this time — that, after participating in the summit of the countries of the south, the debate had to begin for the replacement of the rules and the Stability Pact. The question I have to ask is what is Portugal's position on this replacement and whether there will also be a simple replacement of the rules that existed or whether there will be any reflection on its application and enforceability. Next, the issue of energy and energy sovereignty also has a recent context, which has to do with relations between Hungary and Russia and with Russia's supply of energy to a Member State of the European Union. We have problems of energy autonomy in the European Union, we have problems of energy price — of course, one is not indifferent to the other — and we have the Portuguese Government to defend solutions that, for example, go through a bet on renewable energy and the production of these same energies in countries such as Portugal or Spain. What we know is that in the national context these bets have a cost that needs to be financed, helping to make energy more expensive in Portugal than in other countries of the European Union. I therefore ask: from a national point of view, how will this commitment be supported, in terms of competitiveness within the Union, so that we, as well as European empowerment in energy production, do not have a problem of internal competitiveness in our economy and a difficulty for our families. There is also the issue of foreign policy and transatlantic relations. Objectively, from our point of view, there is no need for a retaliation and conflict in the logic of the transatlantic relationship, but rather a refocus of this policy, so that what happened with respect to the United States, France and Australia or for what happened with respect to relations between the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom is not a problem for the European Union. There is a context where this must, can and will certainly be discussed, which is the context of NATO, where, obviously, this matter has to be treated so that the post-American election objective of a better transatlantic relationship is not frustrated. Finally, I raise two simple questions: first, the question of Europe's reaction to a new flow of refugees from Afghanistan, which will change in relation to other previous situations ; and then the question of Belarus. Yesterday, in an interview with CNN, President Lukashenko denied all the evident accusations by international bodies concerning the disrespect for human rights in Belarus. What can the European Union do more and what will the Portuguese State defend as a retaliation to this totally unacceptable attitude of President Lukashenko?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u21	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: The first issue I bring to you concerns the fact that there is still no European register of transfer of pets between the States of the European Union. In February 2020 a European Parliament resolution on the illegal trade in pet animals was adopted which, among other measures, proposes the creation of a centralised electronic register of such animals. More: the NAP presented a draft resolution for the Government to promote compliance with this European Parliament resolution, which was rejected with the votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP. I ask the Government why there is no electronic record of pet animals circulating in the European Union? What has the Government done or what it intends to do to comply with this European Parliament resolution, which simply seeks to protect the animals of company from illegal trade to which they have been subjected? Finally, I would like to recall in this House President Jorge Sampaio and one of the last struggles of his life: the Youth, Education and Special Projects Fund and the creation of a rapid response mechanism for higher education in emergencies at the global level and of the European Union. The realization of this idea is essential to ensure the continuity of studies to students from countries affected by conflicts, refugee students and students at risk or forced to travel. The NAP has already presented an initiative aimed at boosting the YES Fund in Portugal. I therefore ask what efforts the Government will take to ensure the implementation of the YES Fund, at least at European Union level.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u23	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: I do not take away the importance of discussing the state of the European Union and its construction process, but I believe that it is important, above all, to take steps to break the line of continuity that has led us to what we have today, i.e. to a militaristic European Union, which is not in solidarity, measured by the great powers and, above all, by the backs to the people, from backs to backs to the Europeans. Time has shown and the pandemic has also confirmed what was already obvious: countries cannot continue to be subject to and conditioned, particularly with regard to the application of funds, the will and priorities of the European Union, rather than responding to the realities and problems of each country, at the same time as they promote a single market, which only favours the great powers and not the European peoples. That is, the European Union is increasingly just a few and for some. It is a European Union where there is no room for social justice or environmental justice and which is not able to put the green transition, as well as technical and scientific development, at the service of people's quality of life and the safeguarding of jobs with rights. It is a European Union which, for decades, has defined environmental policy guidelines, but which is not at least interested in demanding concrete measures and a breach of this neoliberal and mercantilist nature of the system, such as putting an end to the carbon market, which is not yet achieved by the 8th Environment Action Programme. Year after year, plan after plan, what we have are missed opportunities to really have a green, just and social Europe. The truth is that, at a time when much is being debated about the future of Europe, it is time to learn because, if nothing changes, the future will not be better and if we do not learn from the mistakes we are not doing here. In view of this, Minister, we cannot fail to ask the following: how does the Government consider that these and other policies serve the peoples, particularly the Portuguese people? Who are they, after all, addressing these European policies? Who are the recipients of these policies? Does the Government want to leave everything as it is, aligning with a European Union of only a few, or is it willing to have Portugal and the Portuguese also contain in the construction of a European Union that is even for everyone?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u26	Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim has the floor for an intervention by the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I have two questions, very simple. Several governments of our European Union partners are moving forward with measures to reduce the impact of rising gas prices on family and business budgets and call for concerted action by the European Union to solve the problem. Italy, for example, will suspend fixed charges on electricity and natural gas bills until December. In Portugal, what does the government intend to do? Secondly, the energy strategy for the Union, with the aim of providing energy at affordable prices, is based on five pillars: in energy security; in the integration of the internal market; in energy efficiency; in the decarbonisation of the economy; and in research and innovation. What does the Portuguese Government want to do about this?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u28	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The debate in the European Parliament held 15 days ago gave reasons to 430 million Europeans, not only to worry about the state of the Union, but also with the Commission Von der Leyen itself, which gives increasing signs of inoperance and tibiasity. This is because, in the face of a European Union which is losing political and economic importance worldwide, the failure of this Commission is evident, with great and certainly well-intentioned projects such as the European Ecological Pact, the Migration and Asylum Pact or the geopolitical Europe, which are either lost or not out of role. This inoperance is the result of the gigantic and paralysing bureaucracy that infects the Union, but also of the sub-alternisation of the role of the European Parliament, which should be the House of European Democracy, which results directly from this Commission's subservience to the Council. But there are also signs of lukewarmness. the serious attacks on liberal democracy and civil and political freedoms in Hungary or Poland, this Commission has not responded either firmly or rapidly. Speeches and measures that have not been heard in Europe since the 1930s have to be tackled without hesitation and using the legal tools available to the Commission, such as the rule of law protection mechanism. at a time when the European Union faces the challenge of finding its way without the historic strength of the transatlantic alliance, it is essential that Portugal, in the European bodies, be a voice of warning against the power of bureaucrats in Brussels and the inoperability resulting therefrom, against the subalternisation of politics and the European Parliament and against the dilution of the idea of Europe as a space for freedom and progress. It was in Europe that the notion of individual freedom was born and only when we honor and renew that legacy can we be proud of our European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u30	The Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva, has the floor for an intervention to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I appreciate the speeches of all the banks and, if I may, I will try to answer by dividing the questions put at three levels. First of all, the questions in fact, which I have the pleasure and pleasure to answer; then, the questions of average intensity, let us say so; and finally, several fundamental questions, if you have time for that. Mr Brás asked me first of all about the situation of the European Union training mission to Mozambique. It is launched, the commander is a Portuguese general and we hope that his detachment on the ground will take place during this fall. With regard to Mr Bruno Dias' question, on what the Government did in relation to the request of the Venezuelan authorities for the transfer of a quantity of money for the payment of vaccines contracted to a Latin American organization once again, what the Government did was to communicate to either the New Bank or the Venezuelan Government—and personally informed the new Venezuelan minister, with whom I found myself, in New York, on the side of the United Nations General Assembly—that Portugal does not have in practice any sanctions directed at Venezuela from which there are obligations to freeze funds, other than those sanctions, addressed to natural persons, approved by the European Union, within which we carried out our own initiatives. On the issues that I would say are of average intensity, Mrs Isabel Oneto calls — and very well! — attention to the crucial importance of small and medium-sized enterprises in the European economic fabric and, therefore, in the recovery process. This importance is duly reflected in our own Recovery and Resilience Plan, but as part of the review of competition policy, industrial policy and trade policy of the European Union has also always been Portugal's position to insist on the primacy of the SME network for the European economy. As you know, we are firm and constant opponents of this dangerous idea of European champions, that is, of large companies, the only ones who would be able to win in the global geo-economic competition. We are strong opponents of this dangerous idea. Mr Sérgio Marques asked about the progress of the European strategy for the outermost regions. It is currently under way, as you said, and it was very important that, at the General Affairs Council meeting last May in Coimbra, the outermost regions had been present, had been brought together with the European Union's European affairs ministers and had made it clear that no strategy for the future of the European Union can ignore the specific situation of the outermost regions, either the challenges which Mr has well pointed out or, if I may also, the enormous opportunities and advantages that the outermost regions give to the European Union, in particular from the point of view of his Atlantic projection. Mr Nelson Silva, and very well—and I would like to congratulate him on this and to associate myself with his words—respects very much the legacy of President Jorge Sampaio and I would like to reply to him with all clarity: not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Government guarantee the continuity of the global platform of support for Syrian students and the fulfilment of the last proposal made by our dear Jorge Sampaio, which is also the extension of this platform to support Afghan students, as in Portuguese foreign policy, the initiative to create a global, international mechanism to respond to emergency situations in higher education is an absolute priority. Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo referred very well to the questions of the rule of law and I would like to remind you, firstly, that our pressure produces results. See what happened, recently, with the correction that several Polish regions made to that pilgrimage idea of declaring themselves LGBTIQ-free regions — no one understands what that is! — and our pressure has already produced results and has produced results in relation to other countries. at this time, we are fulfilling one of the fundamental decisions of the European leaders, taken last year, which was to carefully examine, in the light of the financial risks posed by infringements of the rule of law, the national recovery and resilience plans of certain Member States. The Portuguese Presidency has also contributed here, in particular by unlocking the procedures relating to Article 7. the, which were blocked before our Presidency. On the fundamental issues, these are, above all, three, to which I would like to mention: first of all, the European Union's defence issue and the lessons to be drawn from Afghanistan. It is a debate that we will have, particularly in the European framework, in the discussion on our new strategic compass and in the NATO framework, in the discussion on the new strategic concept, which must be approved, is expected at the Madrid Summit. Portugal, like Mr. Members know, because Parliament and the government have already said so clearly, it is in favour of enhanced cooperation in the area of defence, but it is not in favour of the creation of European armies or of the Europeanisation of a policy which is, first of all, a policy of national sovereignty. We also understand that the collective defence structure to which we belong is NATO and that is where we have to draw the proper lessons from Afghanistan. The second question, if Mr President gives me some tolerance, refers to climate change, and I agree, as usual, with Mrs Fabíola Cardoso. The honourable Member should therefore be the first to acknowledge the importance of the Portuguese contribution with the approval of the European Climate Law, the reform of the common agricultural policy, which goes towards the green transition, and also our leadership in the discussion of the climate change package. In addition, Portugal is the most advanced Member State, I repeat, the most advanced Member State with regard to the fulfilment of the Union's 2030 objectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u32	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u33	Mr President, thank you very much for your patience. To conclude, I would like to talk about the issue of economic governance, to which several Members. Members have referred and it is crucial. First of all, one of the key conclusions of the Port Social Summit is the forthcoming integration of social indicators into the European Semester. Economic governance must also measure our performance in the social area. Secondly, we will have to have new rules — and it is clear that we are awaiting the constitution of the German Government and the French Presidency's programme — but it is very important that budgetary discipline, which is important and decisive, will enable economic growth and employment to be stimulated and not stopped. We're already full of the troika! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter point 3 of our agenda, I would like to remind you that the elections are taking place in the Senate to the Constitutional Court, to the Higher Council of Information, to the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals and to the Independent Committee for the Monitoring and Monitoring of Special Public Procurement Measures. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who have not yet exercised their right to vote to do so, as soon as possible. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to point 3...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u35	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u36	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u37	Mr President, I am asking for the floor only to ensure that my presence in this plenary is recorded in Ata, since twice in September the computer system has failed to verify my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u38	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now turn to point 3 of our agenda with the discussion of Bill No 618 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Current account between taxpayers and the State. To open the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin the presentation of this CDS bill with an announcement — that of the creation of the current account between State and taxpayers. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed the announcement she mentioned.]] This announcement I bring here today is of 18 May 2016 and says: "Government launches current account between state and taxpayers. » The measure consisted of the Simple 2016 and would be presented—and was — Thursday, 19th. The objective was simple and, I would say, of the most basic justice by accrediting a basic principle: when the State is indebted to a citizen, it can use that credit to pay its taxes and pay the State. In other words, a State which is obliged and paid late cannot demand compliance with a taxpayer. At the time, the Government said that compensation already existed with tax credits, which is true from the point of view of what is written in the law, although, in most cases, it is impossible, because this possibility is systematically hampered when it is in the interest of the taxpayer, but then the Government, in May 2016, wanted to go further and extend compensation to various services of the central State, i.e. apply the same logic to companies supplying the State that have amounts to receive from public entities such as hospitals, schools or courts. At the time, it was said: "This will be a phased implementation. Start number 1. the quarter of 2017. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, since this announcement, have spent about 5 years, 4 months and 12 days in a total of almost 2000 days. And nothing happened! Almost a year ago, the CDS asked Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs: "So where is the current account between State and taxpayer? And Mr. Secretary of State said: "You really need to walk faster. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, slow down, I'm not seeing how it was possible, because nothing to do for five years...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u40	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u41	In fact, we need to go faster—in fact, I would say until we have to go somewhere, whatever he is. In fact, the only thing that goes fast with the Government of the Socialist Party is the announcements, because this measure is of the time when it was announced that 'the cows had wings'! And now, after five years, nothing has happened. The CDS presents this bill so that this measure will finally cease to be an ad and become a reality. We have an opening for all the improvements and for all the modifications that can finally make it out of the paper. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u42	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is known that the Liberal Initiative is in favour of creating a current account between taxpayers and the State, that the CDS, in good time today, brings the debate. In fact, we made this proposal in July 2020 and again in the State Budget for 2021 because the State has to be a good person. It is not acceptable that, when the State owes money to a taxpayer, it cannot request an account meeting. Or do you want a person to divide to pay an IMI (municipal property tax) when you have IRS (tax on income of natural persons) to receive? Nor is it acceptable for a company to which the State has been paid late months to be prevented from accessing, for example, public tenders, when it is the same delay as the State which prevents it from having its accounts up to date. The current account is easy to implement, simplifies people's lives and expedites the legal and administrative activity of the State, reduces interactions with the Tax and Customs Authority (AT ) or social security, reduces levels of litigation and restores confidence in the relationship between taxpayers and the State and, above all, does not cause unnecessary and unfair treasury problems to families and businesses. in a society that puts people in front of the state when it owes us money, we cannot be subject to the persecution of the state, but, first, we must be able to use the credits we have about the state to keep our accounts up-to-date. in a society that puts people in front of the state, this should be obvious to all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u44	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PAN, as a progressive party that is, often differs from the CDS-PP, but there are some topics on which we can bridge and one of them is, for example, transparency in the relationship of citizens with public entities, especially with the Tax Authority. At various times, this convergence has been evident, as was the case, just a few months ago, of the transparency measures at the level of state-level and national-level rates proposed by the NAP here for which the CDS-PP voted in favour. That is where the proposal that the CDS-PP brings us here comes up and that is why we will vote in favour. It is a simple idea: to create a current account among taxpayers, whether they are citizens or companies, with social security, with the Tax and Customs Authority and with other public entities, so that the repayment or payment values to taxpayers are recognised as credits for the liability of the taxable person before these public entities, which would allow taxpayers to settle their obligations through an account meeting. In addition to bringing an obvious logic of contribution balance and transparency and creating pillars for establishing a state trust relationship with the taxpayer, this measure brings with it an efficient way of combating the chronic problem of late payments from the public sector in our country, which in August alone amounts to more than EUR 623 million. Adding to this there is still a potential positive effect on the economy with the dynamisation of public procurement through an increase of competitors in public tenders, since today we are checking the anachronistic situation of companies that cannot compete for public tenders because they have debts to the State, but which at the same time have to have a set of payments by the State, often higher than the values in debt and for which they have to wait years at a time. This is a measure of elementary sense. However, even if it is not now approved, we believe that the next State budget may be the appropriate seat for the consecration of this important fiscal transparency measure, and here we shall be to propose it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u46	It is the time of Mr. Diogo Pacheco de Amorim, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to emphasise that we consider it perfectly unacceptable for the State to demand from the citizen what does not require of itself. This measure is of the most elementary sense and it is unacceptable that it is not accepted and, above all, it is unacceptable that it is promised and, at the end of five years, it has not been implemented. We therefore support and will vote in favour of this CDS project, which seems to us to be the most basic justice and common sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u48	We don't have any more entries on the table. I do not know if that means that we should end the debate. [[Pause.]] Not yet. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This issue of the current account between taxpayers and the State is particularly felt by many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that see themselves with particular treasury difficulties due to completely unacceptable situations, such as, for example, being required to pay VAT ( value added tax) when it has not yet received the VAT that has to happen from the State. This seems to us to be very damaging to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises because they are forced to pay when they have not yet received what is to be done by the State and the Tax and Customs Authority. The CFP's intervention was to extend the VAT system, but also wanted to draw attention to the fact that in the State budget for 2020 a standard was introduced in the General Tax Law ( LGT ), Article 35. o -A — on precisely « account agreement ». I shall read the rule in the General Tax Law : « The taxable person classified as ‘micro’ or ‘small company’, in accordance with Article 2. that in the Annex to Decree-Law No 372 / 2007 of 6 November which, when paying tax obligations, holds tax credits overdue and not paid, may enjoy the respective correct account, and must pay only the difference between the amount to be received and to be paid». Therefore, through the State Budget for 2020, also with the initiative of the CFP, this legal provision was introduced in the General Tax Law to which companies can indeed resort because it is in the law. The problem is that neither the Tax and Customs Authority nor the Government have created a regime that makes it applicable and daily so that companies can use this current account system. This is the requirement that we make to the Government: that we comply with what is in the General Tax Law and that we constantly apply this current account between companies and the State, in particular to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The CDS proposes an extraordinary regime for implementing a law that should be permanent, not extraordinary. We have two differences with this initiative. First of all, the inclusion, in one of the articles of the bill, of non-tax credits, because we believe there is a difference in the correctness of tax credits. For example, one thing is a company that has taxes or returns to which payment is required by the State. Different thing is to mix garlic with bugs, i.e. invoices that are passed on on behalf of a company to the state and mix this with tax matters. in this case, there may indeed be difficulties in its application. The other difference has to do with the scope. We believe that what is in the General Tax Law should be restricted to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is these companies that, in fact, have cash problems with situations where there is no application of this rule. Therefore, we believe that it is possible, in the specialty, to improve these two aspects. We are now available to intervene in such a way that the law coming out of this document is as close as possible as we stand for, i.e. that, for micro and small businesses, there is indeed a system of current accounts in tax matters. This is so that these companies do not see their treasury damaged, which is something that makes life difficult for many of them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u50	We continue the debate on the same problem. Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u51	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you, as well as the honourable Members. Members and in particular the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, for bringing this initiative. I am fulfilling the CDS for the following reason: because it is to establish justice, as has already been said, until the mixing of garlic with bugs, as Mr. PCP said, is quite relevant, but it has already happened. When a company tries to receive from the State, the State requires that the company have its regularised tax status. Therefore, the mixture already occurs and on the initiative of the State. This only reinforces the principle that, effectively, this correctness of accounts between taxable persons, taxpayers, and the State must happen with the greatest of the celebrities. We are already on a very late path that not only has consequences in the treasury of companies and in the available income of families, but also has an impact on the cost of the business context itself, because simplifying the payment means that it has less costs to be able to pay. I recall that the costs of context in Portugal are significant and is the INE itself ( National Institute of Statistics ), twice consecutive in its business investigation, to point out that pressure to declarative activity with finance is one of the main costs of context that companies feel. So simplifying is good and should have been done yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u53	It is not just a matter of treasury, it is also a matter of cost and operation and, consequently, of productivity, competitiveness and full justice for families. I hope, therefore, that something which the PSD has always defended — the simplification of the state's relationship with families and businesses — can happen in the main sense of increasing income, which is entirely fair. There are, of course, issues that should be duly assessed, in the field of expertise, mainly with regard to the inclusion of the State business sector. This is a good principle, but it is necessary to verify whether this inclusion does not actually collide with some issues, until the State does not participate 100 % in all companies that are part of the State business sector. Still, the principle is good. It is, of course, a challenge to try to make different tributes, which have different natures and different origins, all are included in a single current account. It is a challenge, but at the same time it is a work that the government has already proposed to do — and it should already have done so. Therefore, since they are already late, it is more than obvious that it is something that has to be accomplished. As, above all, there is, in this House, at least until now, unanimity on this matter, it is clear that there are conditions for it to be implemented. Above all, in addition to the will of the parties here, this should be a priority for the country, for the positive impact it has on families and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, in principle, has always been in favour of laws that can simplify. But it is clear that, if this proposal does not move forward, it will only show that perhaps the discourse that the Government and other left-wing parties, which eventually do not follow this initiative, are completely different from doing so. And it's time to do it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u54	When they were in the government, they could have done it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u55	We're waiting for registrations. [[Pause.]] The Left Block is signed up. Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u56	Mr President, I hope that this project, if it comes in the light of the day, will be able to practice precisely what I am trying to say here: it makes sense to have a current account between the Tax and Customs Authority and taxpayers, whether they are small businesses or individual contributors. A very different thing is that there is a current account that makes and creates a confusion between expenditure and revenue that has a different nature as well. These have an accounting and constitutional nature, even different, because one thing is the payment of an invoice, the hiring of a service, a current revenue or a current expenditure of the State, which can come from a public entity, an entity of the business sector; another is a tax, a tax. They are expenditure and revenue of a completely different nature and we understand that they should not be mixed. Therefore, if we want to speed up the relationship between the Tax and Customs Authority and taxpayers, the creation of a current account makes sense. A good example has already been given here: it is inefficient for the Tax and Customs Authority to cover a VAT when it has not yet returned the VAT from a previous period or from previous operations. Another thing is a late payment — I admit that there are late payments from the State for the hiring of a service — to serve to settle the tax. at this point, we do not agree. If there is a problem of delay in State payments, the problem of delay in State payments is solved. If there is a problem of complexity in State procedures, State procedures are simplified. We will not create a bad solution to solve problems that should be solved differently. Therefore, our position is very simple: we understand that the current account, to exist, should be only between the Tax and Customs Authority and taxpayers, for tax expenditure and revenue. To simplify other processes, there will certainly be other solutions that we will also follow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u57	For an intervention, the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor, through Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles: If there is a compliment I have to make to you, it is indeed persistence. We all remember that already in 2021, when the Budget of the State and the Supplementary Budget, I think accompanied by the Liberal Initiative, brought similar proposals that were rejected. But when we walk on persistence and on subjects formulated in a wrong way and which do not have justification for the way they are presented, at some point, we leave the path of persistence and enter the field of theimosia. I think that is not what you want. Madam Member, the pretext for the pandemic situation, the CDS once again exercises a devaluation in relation to the social function of the State. Just look at your bill's statement of reasons. In fact, we all remember that the New State, on the issue of protectionism, left some vices that are noticed, because those who say ill of the State and who are always criticizing it are those who, in difficult times, are at the forefront of asking for State aid, the ever-needed and insufficient State aid. But this is something that democracy, over time and pedagogy, will necessarily solve. Let us go to the particular question, which is the proposed law. It is a similar proposal, as I have already mentioned, the other one put forward in the past and which has been rejected by this Parliament. It intends to create a current account between the taxpayer and the Tax and Customs Authority, but then at some point it confuses everything because it brings to this set other possible credits that do not result in a direct relationship between the taxpayer and the Tax and Customs Authority. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is, precisely, a procedure in the law, the Code of Procedure and the Tax Procedure, in which tax and non-tax compensation are provided for in Articles 90. o is 90. o -A, contrary to what he proposes. On the other hand, the deadlines for 10 and 20 days are set below, during which no debt has to be proved, simply claim it and then we have compensation from there. We must agree that this proposal violates, including basic principles of a fiscal nature and, in particular, the principle of non-availability. This proposal would also allow, as it is formulated, to violate rules relating to the autonomy of local authorities, autonomy of autonomous regions, the business sector of the State and public enterprises. It would allow, in a very simple way, clearly violate the reservations of autonomy and even obligations to comply with its budgets. Madam President, I ask you very clearly, then, where are your concerns about the breach of the budgetary frameworks and the rules of public funding for these companies. Are we missing? Has the CDS stopped worrying about them? Does it allow, in this indirect way, to create a situation in which they are violated? That is something that I would like to see answered. Madam Member, I would also like to mention that there are formal requirements in the application which are vague and insufficient and the reduced deadlines make it impossible for the Tax and Customs Authority to, at least, make a verification of the confirmation of that claim. Therefore, it is a situation that is not fair, it is not fair and, more than that, it may even violate principles of a constitutional nature. Madam Member, for these reasons — and precisely because it is not at stake the principle that the State should have the right public accounts and that it should pay in due course — as has already been said, where there are such distortions, let us correct them. It is also not at stake that taxpayers fulfil their tax obligations within the time limits in which they must be met. These are principles with which we all agree, and I think that they must be defended and that they must be reduced. However, solutions of this nature are not correct, they are not technically sustained, they are not fair, they are not fair and, necessarily, the Socialist Party will not be able to follow them when they vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u59	For a second intervention, Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened with all our attention to the speech of the Member of the Socialist Party, and I think it was clear that, out of a lack of will, you have turned to the wrong idea of making the money in the state and that it should be at the hands of the taxpayers, in fact, in the hands of the companies. If the state was efficient, we weren't having this conversation. Well, state is not efficient! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u61	If the State were efficient, it would not be responding to companies that do not pay until they prove that they have the situation regularized with the State. So everything is already mixed up and the pressure is on families and businesses. So, of course, the economy of a country does not arise, Mr President. There is no country with knee companies. And what you do, if you want to keep the situation exactly as it is, is pressure on families, it is pressure on companies. Don't forget it was the companies that helped raise the economy. Don't forget that the companies, with export, helped build this country. Do not forget that when they have VAT to receive from the State, exporting companies themselves cannot compensate for anything. The state has money that is not yours, you continue to complicate and the money continues not to go to who should go, which is who really helps the country and the economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u62	Mr. Deputies, it's a lot of bad will! A lot of bad will! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u63	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I give you back the question of bad will, but I return it back to the period when the PSD was in government, when you had the opportunity to do all that you are saying, but that you have actually forgotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u65	Whoever forgot it was who promised it and didn't! Oh, my God! What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u66	Is bad will just a matter of conjuncural concern? Is it only when we are in the government that we have responsibility or is it also when we are in opposition? This contradictory speech leads to the discrediting of the positions of the Social Democratic Party. And it is not because of the 'constitute' that solves the problems, because, in fact, when he could solve them, he did not solve them. In addition, forget, in what he says, that there are solutions in the law that allow you to solve the issues that are being set out here. It's not worth confusing them, they're clear. What exists is the position of those who, in the opposition, say one thing and, when in government, do exactly the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u67	As there are no more entries, we are going to end the closure, so you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have a challenge. If the only consensus that can be found is that of the principle in relation to debts and credits of a tax-only nature, then I shall leave the challenge that we take advantage of this opportunity to find the necessary changes in order to get this measure out of the paper. Even if I do not agree with this limit, I commit myself to respect it, if this ensures that these measures leave the paper, until they are already in the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, they are already in the LGT, but the truth is that they never become reality. So if that is the question, I commit myself here. Now, some things I'm gonna have to remember, too. The first is that Mr Fernando Anastácio called me stubborn.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u69	Persistent! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u70	Look, between being stubborn and being such a kind of regretful and forgotten—as happens there, on the bench of the Socialist Party—I prefer the same. I would like to remind you that what was announced in the Simplex (and I bring the news here) is that: « The same logic... » — of the ‘current account’ — «... will apply to state suppliers that have amounts to be received from public entities, such as hospitals, schools or courts». The speaker showed the document she mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u71	Come on! Oh, my God! Is that
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u72	That is, what you said is a technical nonsense was the same thing as this Minister — do you remember her? — he is now a PS Member of Parliament, he said. And at that time everyone agreed and no one had any technical problems. To the bottom of the matter, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, why does this make sense? Look, I'll give you an example. Imagine a company that provides whatever it is—it doesn't matter much—to the Hospital of the Lady of Oliveira in Guimarães. In 2016, the average period to receive was 98 days. Today, in this quarter, the average period to receive is 213 days. Therefore, while this company expects a public hospital to pay its caps (because it pays late),...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u73	Almost a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u74	... you must continue to pay your taxes and you must also continue, for example, to deliver the withholdings at the source of the IRS of your workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u76	If you don't, pay a fine! in some cases incur criminal responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u77	Criminal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u78	Meanwhile, you say: "For the state it does not hurt! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” « Ah, these are technically different things! » say the PCP and the Block. Therefore, the company has the obligation, the state always has time, and everyone considers that it does not hurt, that one day we have to solve this! Open... I'm just waiting, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all these small and medium-sized enterprises are still here to see when you are. Members have time to settle this because, unfortunately, some may not survive because they have to pay taxes to the State until the state pays them the money. This, yes, is completely unacceptable! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u79	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this debate. I remember the ladies. Members who, in the Senate Chamber, are holding elections to the Constitutional Court, the Higher Council of Information, the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Tribunals and the Independent Commission for the Monitoring and Monitoring of Special Public Procurement Measures. After this, we will then move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of Bill Nos 865 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — For the protection of shark mako / anequim ( Isurusoxyrinchus and Isurus paucus) and 864 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Remote electronic monitoring of fishing vessels ( generality ), of Resolution Projects Nos 1332 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Prohibition of the use of lead in fishing and 1389 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the recognition and award of a professional status to the Maritime Fisheries Observer of the Draft Law No 833 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Determines the end of bottom trawling with a view to protecting marine ecosystems(generality) and draft Resolution Nos 27 / XIV/1. a ( PCP ) — Temporary stabilization of the allowance for small craft and coastal fishing and small aquaculture, 95 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Programme to defend the fishing of the siege and its professionals and 1239 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to minimise the impact of fishing. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: If we ask in this House who defends the preservation of the oceans, they will probably all answer if they defend it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u81	Madam Member, I apologize for interrupting. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to sit down, you gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are walking in favour of going out or sitting down — it is not enough to stop. [[Pause.]] I believe that the conditions for the honourable Member to resume her speech have already been met. Do the favor, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, this is not a play, it is the House of Democracy, and we must all pay attention to what some and others say about what we are defending. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are aware of the numerous alerts of the scientific community and the evidence that the protection of the oceans is one of the greatest challenges of mankind in the coming years. Portugal is the country of Europe with the largest marine coastal area, and where the socio-economic importance of the sea is quite relevant, so we have an increased responsibility for preserving this immense natural heritage and the biodiversity it receives. But in order for this to happen effectively, there must be monitoring of any activity that has a direct impact on marine biodiversity, fishing, which, as it is being developed, is absolutely unsustainable. It is urgent to act and ensure adequate reconciliation of this economic activity with the preservation of the important ecosystem that is the ocean. It is an emergency and a challenge that requires profound changes to curb overfishing, illegal fishing and accidental catch, as recognized by the United Nations itself. I remember that, in many parts of the globe, it is already the fishermen themselves who are asking governments such measures as these that the NAP brings here today, which reverse the decline in biodiversity—such as shark mako or anequin, one of the most endangered species in the world, currently at serious risk of extinction—or which prevent the contamination of the sea with lead and plastics, so that they can resume their activity, compromised by an unsustainable exploitation that has to be waged, using the knowledge and technology that we have at our disposal today, to ensure effective monitoring and monitoring. And before they come to say that the NAP is being once again radical, we remember that the European Chemicals Agency proposed, in February this year, the ban on the sale and use of plums and lead baits on the basis of their weight and the immediate prohibition on the use of plums on fishing lines to prevent 100 000 tonnes of lead from contaminating our aquifers every year. In turn, I recall that our neighbouring Spain — despite the European Union only banned the landing and marketing of the northern Atlantic shark from international waters — decided to prohibit its catch in Spanish waters and to include this shark in its list of protected species. In Portugal, what did our Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests ( ICNF ) do? Clearly very little or nothing. Despite the warnings and news that have recently emerged to account for illegal catches and finishing in our country, the ICNF has only announced that it does not issue documents for the introduction of shark-anequim from international waters, forgetting the species caught in national waters, allowing tons of sharks, closer and closer to extinction, to continue to be devastated. It is no wonder that Portugal continues on the route of finishing, which, for those who do not know, consists in cutting the shark fins and letting them die slowly at the bottom of the oceans. Finally, and in order to accompany the countries that are at the forefront of marine biodiversity protection policies, we propose the recognition and allocation of a professional status to the Maritime Fisheries Observer and the investment in remote electronic monitoring systems of fishing vessels. These measures were very well welcomed in other countries by fishermen's organisations seriously threatened by the unsustainable nature of fishing and the decline in biodiversity, and by consumers, in particular the need to ensure more effective monitoring, avoid accidental catch or even combat illegal fishing, which competes disloyally with those who have good practices and respect biodiversity. These measures have been effective in countries such as Australia, Canada, England, Denmark, the United States, New Zealand, among others. In order to be able to deal seriously with the serious problem that we have on our planet, we must bear in mind that, having a large maritime coast and endangered species, Portugal meets all of us, elected in this House of Democracy, now to act. In fact, we cannot continue to leave future generations a planet less and more alive and silent, with the overwhelming decline in biodiversity. I can still remember that, in 2022, Lisbon will host the Conference of the Oceans, where Portugal will certainly present itself as a very concerned country with the sea and its protection. Protecting the oceans is ensuring the survival of the species.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u83	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u84	I really am concluding, Mr President. The preservation and regeneration of these ecosystems is necessarily due to the adoption of concrete measures rather than mere plans of good intentions. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u85	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am presenting today a draft law on the need to put an end to bottom trawling, as well as several recommendations with a view to minimizing the impact of fishing. Drag is an unselective technique, which captures all kinds of species of marine animals, including protected species with a size below legally permitted. On average, it is estimated that 70 % of catches are rejected and thrown into the sea, most of them already dead, for example because they have little or no economic value. There is no doubt about the negative impact this fishery has on marine ecosystems and that its practice is unsustainable in the long term, causing irreversible damage to certain communities, not only to the populations of commercially exploited species such as all others which are the target of by-catches. In 2005 the trawling of the Azores and Madeira was banned, so it is proposed to extend to the entire national territory. In addition, we recommend : a study to measure the impacts of fishing activity by each type of fishing art; the investment in the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ( IPMA ) ; that the report of by-catches in vessels less than 15 metres be made public and the reports of discharge of cetaceans and finally that a remote electronic monitoring program with CCTV cameras (Closed-Circuit Television) is created in the boats. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u87	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing eight fisheries projects, six of which are a clear attack on fishing, small artisanal and coastal fishing, and two of them, of the CFP, defend precisely this type of fishing, national production, which is so important for the balance of the Portuguese food balance, which has an absolute deficit in respect of fish. In our country, which is, by taking Japan and Iceland, the largest consumer of fish per capita, the vast majority of the fish we consume is imported, and national production has fallen, in the face of both the political options at national level, and also at European Union level and that it has imposed on us. of the projects that we bring here, the first has to do with the temporal stabilization of the subsidy to small artisanal and coastal fishing and to small aquaculture. Mrs. Members, since 2018, the CFP has introduced in the State budget support for the use of fuel, petrol and GPL, in small fishing and aquaculture, considering up to the characteristic type of vessels using this type of fuel. But this support is not stable, it depends on the State budget, and it is important that, once and for all, a stable regime is established to allow small fishing, local and coastal fishing and small aquaculture to access this support, as is also expected for diesel oil. We have another project that has to do with defending the fishing of the fence and its professionals. Circle fishing is essential in terms of national production. Only 1 % of the vessels are fishing for the tank, but they produce a limited quantity, taking into account the duties of the fishing quotas, in particular as regards the sardine. In addition, they are subject to substantial stopping periods imposed by the defence and also because of the lack of conditions in accessibility to our ports and bars, which need to be improved and maintained, because in fact they prevent men from leaving the sea safely. in this sense, we place here the need to strengthen support for the budget of the IPMA, so important a national entity for the research of the sea and our fish resources. It is important that, once and for all, we fight the precarious work that fats in the IPMA, because these researchers have an important role in the study of our resources. We also propose a system to support loss of income, because these fishermen are subject to long stops, due to defence issues and also, as I have already mentioned, to navigation, and it is important that they have these stops support. Another option which must also be implemented once and for all, but with a structural character, has to do with training in fishing. Fisheries should be properly trained and, above all, an extended training programme should be set up at these stopover periods, allowing an alternative to fishing stoppage. With regard to the projects that are under discussion here, allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mrs Inês Sousa Real, to say that it looks like projects made from the living room and television. It does not contemplate what is the reality of national fishing, it does not perceive the economic activity of fishing in Portugal. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, let me even tell you that tuna fishing in Portugal is not the one that you see on television,... [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]] ... tuna fishing, in Portugal, is made of jump and stick, is made with an anchor that does not even take bait, so it is not the one that you see on television and that you want to prevent here. [[PCP applause.]] We must have some respect! We're talking about a small number of boats, from 10 to 12 boats, and Mrs. Deputy comes here with impediments that even have to do with the application of television cameras in boats less than 15 m. But everyone? Oh, my God! Even a peacock, used there in Sesimbra, will you have to have a television camera, so that you will be more relaxed in terms of what capture is? Oh, my God! This is a serious attack on fishing and what fishing represents! As regards labelling and identification of the origin of fish, My Lords, we will continue on this path, without measures to defend national fisheries, from here on forward, we know that all fish will be imported. We have no doubt about this, because we will not have national fishing! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] So I also want to leave you here with one concern: if Portugal does not capture, someone will do it, because we continue to be, fortunately, large fish consumers. In view of the projects that are here, which do not take into account what is reality, which do not take into account those that are national capture practices, what we have to say...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u89	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u90	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we must develop research, for the sustainability of fish resources, but also fisheries. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u91	Negancyists!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we presented the various diplomas, we went to the debate. The first intervention is for Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In the Left Block we believe that it is necessary to strengthen public policies in order to make fishing more sustainable and protect marine resources. Among the various proposals that we have put forward, I would like to highlight a recent initiative, which aimed at the qualification and valorization of work, because the precarious conditions in which many of these professionals operate are so well known. We have proposed, and we continue to propose, the establishment of a national vocational qualification plan for fisheries professionals. We also proposed that the work factor be considered in the transposition of the common fisheries policy, so that those who promote precariousness do not receive public money. We propose measures to ensure the provision of technical-scientific advisory services, by the ministry or properly trained local associations, to all subsidiary projects of public support. But all these proposals have been cast, with the votes against the Socialist Party and the abstentions from the NAP, the ENP and the CFP, which today are concerned about the ecological and socio-economic sustainability of fisheries. The Left Block will accompany with the favourable vote several projects presented today, but we will vote against some of them. There are two NAP projects that demonstrate that its proponents are unaware of the country's socio-economic and ecological reality with regard to fisheries and marine resources. There are more than 300 species of sharks and endangered strips, many of which are present in Portugal, but the NAP presents a proposal to ban capture, maintenance on board, discharge and marketing only for two shark species. In addition, the proposal also seeks to prohibit accidental catches, which has no practical effect. What is needed is to reduce these catches by improving fishing gears. The proposal also contradicts current legal obligations, which indicate that accidental catches on large vessels are required to be landed for monitoring and control. We also point out that according to the same draft law of the NAP, those who make boarded play fishing cannot take fish home. Do you know the NAP how many people depend on self-consumption fishing, how complementary to their weak incomes and pensions? Oh, my God! in another project, the NAP proposes remote electronic monitoring in all vessels. It once again reveals a lack of knowledge of the reality of fishing in Portugal and social insensitivity. In the exhibition of motifs they give examples of large vessels from the United States and Australia, but the reality is another, because small fishing in Portugal is by far a majority, representing 80 % of the fleet. Does the NAP consider that a maricador, with a rowing battery in the Lagoa de Óbidos, has a duty to have a video surveillance system in his battery? thus, they attribute the costs of installing video surveillance systems to fishermen, which would aggravate the economic difficulties because much of the small fishing has already passed. Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, a non-registered Member, today brings a proposal to votes on the prohibition of bottom trawling in Portugal. The Left Block accompanies this need, with the condition of the same being altered in the specialty, because the current proposal ignores social impacts. in this sense, the Block proposes that a transitional period be created for the conversion of jobs of many workers who depend on this activity. In order to contribute to better monitoring of fisheries and protection of marine species, in a manner adapted to the reality of the country, the Left Block will shortly present new proposals, which are socially fair and informed by science. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u94	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party. Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have scheduled fishing, fishermen and marine resources conservation initiatives, with quite a variety of objects, followed by various Members of the Socialist Party. On remote monitoring, the initiative shares the concerns of the European Union and the Government Programme with a view to deepening mechanisms for control of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. It proposes the implementation of video surveillance systems, to be installed on board ships. However, it should consider further clarification in the intended purpose, installation sites, conditions on board and certification, their coverage, far beyond tuna and swordfish fisheries, as well as the regulation of the storage and use of images. We know that the issue is on the European agenda and that this project anticipates this approach. Thus, we recommend weighting in the presence of the advantages and disadvantages resulting from here. On the professional status of the Maritime Fisheries Observer, it should be noted that these professionals share the working conditions of the rest of the sea, and should therefore be considered as such; their functions are provided in the international and European context; Portugal fulfils the obligations of the observer programmes; the existence of different types of observers with differentiated functions and principles of action; the existence of regional fisheries management organisations such as ICCAT ( International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas) and NAFO ( Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization ), which already consider requirements to be taken into account in the approach to a status of the Maritime Fisheries Observer. in this context, Portugal's fisheries control obligations should consider the experience and requirements in line with the best practices of existing, both European and international experience. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u96	You now have the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As far as the fisheries sector is concerned, the Greens believe that there is still a long way to go. It is therefore necessary to counter intensive methods of fish catch, which is only possible by supporting and valuing traditional fishing. The Greens consider that shipowners and fishermen are the main interested in the pollution of the sea and should therefore have training and incentives for the reduction of waste at sea, either for those resulting from fishing activity or for the possibility of collection of marine waste and its non-return to the sea. As traditional fishing has been abandoned, an inseparable issue of great pressure that has been exerted by the large food distribution chains, fishing has become increasingly intensive and industrial, using large-scale vessels with high technology, leading quickly to the depletion of coastal and pelagic stock. The present fishing vessels, which carry out fishing fishing, are able to fish in seamounts, drifters from the bottom of the sea and in the damaged and irregular seabed, areas that were previously avoided. With these methods, corals, sponges and their biodiversity, including benthic fauna, are destroyed. In view of the impact of this type of fishing, fishing in the Azores and Madeira was prohibited at the beginning of this century. The seabed is in a rapid process of desertification and, in addition to the direct impacts on ecosystems, the destruction of the marine flora will contribute to accentuate climate change. As far as traditional or craft fishing is concerned, more sustainable, is characterized by the existence of traditional means of capture, with advanced techniques from generation to generation, with lines and networks. However, in addition to the destruction of artisanal fishing, fishermen who are still resisting have many difficulties, particularly in the disposal of fish at fair prices. The Greens believe that it is essential to create incentives for traditional and more sustainable handicrafts, that consumer awareness is essential for more responsible and environmentally balanced consumption, informing about the fishing stock, impacts of fishing gear, intensive fishing or aquaculture, among others. For elasmobranchi species, these include hundreds of sharks and strips that are threatened and in decline, as a direct consequence of several factors, particularly the strong increase in commercial fishing, resulting in overfishing of the population, which adds accidental catch, marine pollution, climate change, habitat loss and food reduction available. It is therefore necessary to draw up a national action plan for the management and conservation of these species in Portuguese waters in order to enable them to be protected and preserved, among many other measures contained in a draft resolution, presented by PELOS Verdes, which will be discussed in due course. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u98	You now have the floor to Mrs Ana Passos of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u99	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating you and the ladies and gentlemen. Members: Debating issues relating to the sea means stressing that in Portugal there is a National Strategy for the Sea, with the action plan approved last September 1, where many of the issues we are discussing today are covered. It should be noted that the strategy is harmonized with the various European instruments and that the PRR has EUR 252 million for the blue economy, green and digital transition and fisheries security. Indeed, thanks to the Socialist Party, the transition of Portuguese fisheries to both environmental and economic and social sustainability is already underway. It is from the general knowledge that trawling is an unsustainable and destructive activity of the marine bottom ecosystems. We also know that in 2014 this activity corresponded to 13 % of total catches and has gradually decreased as a result of the measures implemented by DGRM ( Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services ), such as the reduction in the number of vessels licensed for trawling with the consequent progressive reduction of fishing efforts and the impact it has on ecosystems. With regard to the project concerning the prohibition of the use of lead in fishing, it should be recalled that the European legislative process for the Community restriction of the use of such materials in fishing, in which Portugal is already involved, is already at an early stage. This has been a comprehensive project, with contributions from the scientific committees of the European Chemicals Agency, so it is not recognised as being more valuable in starting a national process now. With regard to the project on measures to minimise the impact of fishing, the proposal does not take into account much of the work being done by IPMA and DGRM, in particular as a result of regular fishing resource monitoring campaigns or ongoing project proposals related to the monitoring and monitoring of fishing activities, so the Socialist Party will not be able to monitor this draft resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u100	The next intervention will be for Mrs Ilidia Quadrado, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The eight initiatives included in this point deal with relevant issues, although, in our view, they lack analysis and deepening. The apparent defence of the marine ecosystem — defended in some draft resolutions and even legislation — is a sin because it does not frame the reality of fishing and the protection of marine biodiversity in the existing legal order in Community terms. For example, the proposal to introduce remote electronic monitoring on fishing vessels does not include the existence of the integrated system of information and support for the surveillance, monitoring and control of fishing activity ( SIFICAP ), nor of the system of continuous monitoring of fishing vessels by satellite, referred to as MONICAP. These proposals also do not take account of the various systems of the common fisheries policy, including the carrying out of checks, monitoring and data collection, based on different sources and new technologies. It therefore seemed more appropriate for us to consider such surveillance cameras in the current systems. Monitoring is a necessary solution, however, we believe that the way the NAP puts the issue needs to be reviewed and improved. On the protection of shark mako / anequim, the bill presented incurs the same failure of legal framework, since we find it inappropriate for Parliament to legislate in a vulva way on matters as relevant as those of protection of marine species. In fact, it is in this sense that the Common Fisheries Policy has defined instruments that seek to preserve the balance of the marine ecosystem through the definition of quotas, total allowable catch and other means that allow sustainable exploitation of resources. Our approach to the PSD has not, nor has it ever happened, to ban without a scientific or technical basis. That is why it does not make sense to prohibit the opinions of technical experts on species protection from being analyzed and consulted by international institutions that make a holistic management of the sea and the preservation of marine species. In the same sense, we do not believe that the proposal to award a professional status to the Maritime Fisheries Observer is correct. It is neither correct nor appropriate to create unsustainable careers through a process of consultation and identification of needs. Similarly, it is considered that it is not the Assembly of the Republic which must prohibit bottom trawling. It would, in fact, be an act of pre-eminence in view of the much work done by the public institutions in this area. Indeed, measures have already been taken to restrict and even ban this kind of fishing — as is the case with the Azores and Madeira — and we therefore consider that the competent authorities are alert to the impact the excesses have had on the ecosystem. On the question of the use of lead in fishing, we consider it very important to promote actions to encourage the use of clean materials, thus contributing to the improvement of the quality of the environment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the generality of these diplomas at nothing would contribute to the preservation of marine ecosystems. They have what we have been accustomed to: political use of unanimous themes, lack of rigor and disregard for the scientific and technical community. This criticism of course excludes the proposals of the CFP, whose scope is different and, in our view, more realistic. However, they reflect the government's lack of commitment to the coalition partners, such as the CFP, and to what is the compliance with the discharge in the State budget law. The State Budget Act for 2021 provided for the creation of an allowance for artisanal and coastal fishing and small aquaculture. Over the past few months, and on the eve of a new State budget, the CFP has intended to put the same initiative to vote so that this subsidy does not depend on approval in each State budget. With regard to the programme in defence of fishing for deer and its professionals, the PSD monitors the need to intervene in order to strengthen the scientific decision at national level, and in relation to the level of income of fishermen in the face of forced interruptions, in particular with an extended training programme financed for the fisheries sector to strengthen knowledge and to serve as an alternative to regular fishing activity during the extended periods in which fishing is prohibited. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by reinforcing that the PSD is and will be next to the science and local communities, since we consider it essential to protect marine biodiversity, ensuring the sustainability of fishing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u102	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Olavo Câmara has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal does not allow shark fishing. The only catch that exists is incidental or accidental fishing, and this, as is understandable by the name itself, is not dependent on the will of fishermen. The sustainability of fishermen and fishing communities must also be safeguarded and our responsibility obliges us to balance the measures adopted and that these measures can be understood. This is because, no one can understand that an involuntary catch of this species or others, such as the cat, in Madeira, fishermen are obliged to return the even lifeless fish to the sea. This is not for anyone, nor for the sustainability of the species, nor for the fishermen, nor for the understanding of anyone in our country, so we defend the sustainability of the species, but also of the fishermen and, in this case, the reasonableness and understanding of these measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u104	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I begin by congratulating the authors of the projects we are discussing today that are many and diverse. What they have in common is about fishing and sea, but, in fact, they mix a protection by safeguarding some species, with which we agree, whether the need for electronic monitoring, the prohibition of lead use, the professional status of the Maritime Fisheries Observer, issues related to the protection of fishermen. These are very diverse issues. I would divide these projects into two groups: there is a group that is one of the projects presented by the PCP, about which I will refer further, and another group that has to do with the projects presented either by the PAN, or by Mrs. Here, with all honesty, and without prejudice to being able, in each one, to go to the specialty, to have a more in-depth discussion, I think that there is a common trait to all of them, is that everyone sees fishing and fishermen as the enemies of the environment. Now, I do not agree with this view, quite the contrary, and, as such, not agreeing with this background view, this will determine our objection and our vote on these projects. More: the view they show of fishing is very different from the reality of national fishing some know. Our concern in the CDS is precisely to preserve national fishing, make it more competitive, so that we will not be here for 10 or 20 years to discuss the problem of consumption alone and only imported fish, because we have led to extinction of our national fishing. This is our main concern and I think that most of these projects go in the opposite direction to her and, indeed, they also see as enemies the playful fishing that clearly does not seem to me framed in this matter. With regard to PCP projects, we understand the concerns and obviously we will make them possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this last intervention concludes the stage of debate. We are thus moving to the closing stage, and to this end you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because of the different interventions, it seems quite clear to us that, on the one hand, there is a clear prejudice in that which is an avid line of reading of the NAP proposals, and on the other, there is also an incomprehensible negationism, but which is owned by parties such as the CFP, which does not scare me, because indeed, they have not read the NAP projects. If they had read them from time to time, they would have realized that electronic monitoring is only intended for the vessels of the swordfish and tuna capture and would have also understood that what is intended to avoid is, on the one hand, accidental capture and, on the other hand, illegal endangered species, as has already been done by neighbouring Spain.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u108	In Portugal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u109	But we are very surprised that the Left Block has raised considerations about these projects, saying, in particular, that we do not know the socio-economic reality of the country, ignoring precisely that biodiversity and endangered species or the need to preserve the oceans are not just a mere flag that from time to time stirs up and needs concrete actions. If on the one hand, on the right hand, or by conservative forces that have never accompanied us in these matters, we are not surprised by this position of the Left Block, I am very surprised that they have actually not been positioned alongside the environment and the preservation of species.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u110	From the environment, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u111	For the NAP it is, and will continue to be, unacceptable that Portugal continues to be responsible for the extinction of biodiversity, for the pollution of the oceans. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what Mrs Cecilia Meireles said, we were talking about overfishing, illegal fishing, accidental catch. In no way have we come here to diabolize or send a reading of the real problems of our country. This is because, whenever the NAP here brings solutions to combat climate change, to protect biodiversity, the natural heritage of our country, what we find within the Assembly of the Republic is a strong resistance of those who just want everything to remain in it, as if our natural resources were infinite or inexhaustible. And here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have a responsibility not only for the present generations but also for future generations and, more than ever, applies the maximum of when there is no fish to fish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u112	Fishing does not end the fish!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u113	...then, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will see the economic problem that the country will have and that money will not eat!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u114	Mrs. Members, let us turn to point five of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Lein. 31 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( ENP) — Extends the scope to new labelling products for foods containing transgenic foods and 944 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — establishes the obligation to provide information to the consumer on the environmental costs of food production, amending Decree-Law No 138 / 90 of 26 April. To begin the debate, and to present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva, who is already addressing the rostrum.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are those who have undergone a change in their genetic material, with the introduction of one or more genes of another organism of the same species or of different species, in an artificial process of transformation of a living organism, which is changed to contain genes of external origin and to constitute a transgenic. They are living beings subject to a manipulation technique that at nothing is associated with occurrences of crossings or recombinations provided by nature itself. One of the most widespread objectives of plant genetic manipulation is to ensure resistance to herbicides. However, when organic agricultural production, free of agrochemicals, is intended to be extended, such manipulation is incongruence and danger, because the reality is that agriculture is practised in an open field and not in a laboratory, subject to factors such as wind or insects, which constitute a means for 'transgenic contamination' at large distances. Some countries in the European Union have been preventing the cultivation of GMOs in their territories. unlike countries such as Germany, Austria, France, Luxembourg or Poland, Portugal generally retains the authorisation to grow GMOs authorised by the European Union. However, in order to safeguard the image and quality of its agricultural production, some areas of the national territory declared themselves free of GMOs, not allowing this cultivation, such as the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and also the Algarve and several municipalities of the country. With the widespread production and marketing of GMOs, mainly agro-food multinationals, but lose consumers, lose the generality of farmers and lose the environment and biodiversity. The production of transgenic foods does not please European consumers. Studies show that citizens are critical to the genetic manipulation of food, considering that there are wide risks. This critical attitude is based on the conviction that transgenic foods have adverse effects on health, leading to the choice not to consume them, due to the risks they pose to human health, but also to the threats they pose to the environment. The Greens continue to persist with proposals for GMO-free agriculture, but regardless of this ecological option, the protection of consumer rights leads us to insist on the need to ensure to each citizen the information necessary for their free and full choices. Indeed, the fact that transgenic food labelling is not mandatory for products such as aquaculture fish or meat, or by-products such as eggs or milk of animal origin — which may have been fed on the basis of transgenic feed — or the fact that it is only mandatory to label products containing more than 0, 9 % GMO proportions, leads a consumer who wishes to make a fully GMO-free diet cannot have the information needed to make his free choice. The Green Party considers that any citizen has the right to be able to make his choices in a full and conscious manner. For this to happen, it is necessary to provide all the necessary information and not to spread it. Therefore, this draft law seeks to establish the mandatoryity of all products containing GMOs, regardless of the percentage, to be duly identified in the labelling and the obligation to extend the labelling rules for food with GMOs to products and by-products of animal origin. The Greens remain committed to opposition to the cultivation of genetically modified organisms that seek to make farmers depend on transgenic seeds patented by the multinationals of the agri-food sector, with already proven environmental and social impacts. We hope not to go on alone in this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u116	In order also to present its legislative initiative, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Consumer rights, enshrined in European and national law, include the right to information. And when it comes to food, the right to information is essential. The food sector has the greatest environmental impact, whether at the level of greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, land occupation and desertification, use of chemicals and impacts on biodiversity. We have already presented this month a bill for the implementation of a strategy to adapt to climate change, taking into account the progressive water shortage that the country is already facing and will continue to face. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, consumers must be able to make their choices in an informed manner on the environmental impacts of each product they buy, of each product they consume. Several studies have shown people's concerns in Portugal for more responsible consumption and for the social and environmental impacts of the type of production. In addition, in a recent study, it was concluded that 85 % of consumers in Portugal are sensitive to environmentally sustainable consumption and another 50 % have expressed concern about the purchase of organic or comparable products, recycled or recycled products, reiterating their concern at environmental impacts. Despite the various national and European standards which recognize the right of the consumer to information, the truth is that, with regard to the environmental impacts of what we consume, information is reduced or even hidden and, in the majority, it is given to the free market initiative. In the case of energy supply, for example, there is already an indication of energy mix and CO2 emissions, but it is even an exception in Portugal as regards the provision of some information to the consumer on environmental impacts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the European Union has already studied environmental impacts for some food products, using various methodologies: the life cycle, the quantity and type of fertilizers and pesticides, the consumption of water, fuel, electricity, carbon dioxide emissions, nitrous oxide, ammonia, among others. in these studies, we also identified the impacts on global average warming, on the ozone layer, on the toxicity to people, to public health, to environmental health. It was necessary for the German seminar DerSpiegel to report on national production in Odemira to alert, once again, to the social and environmental impacts of production on our territory and the aggression that is happening. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, people must have the right to know whether, when they eat meat, they are consuming genetically modified organisms, directly or indirectly through the feed used to feed animals. People need to be able to know which fitophharmacs used in food they will eat and have to be able to know the amount of greenhouse gases they have been emitted for their production. People need to be able to know if they are buying superintensive agricultural products. People must be able to know the environmental impacts of what they consume and must be able to exercise their right of choice and decision. Although it seems to be often forgotten in this House, quality of life and environmental quality are synonymous. As the UN Secretary-General has already mentioned several times, the health of people and the health of the planet are two sides of the same coin.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u118	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the debate stage of these two initiatives. The first intervention is for Mr João Moura of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before making any comment on the draft laws in question, I would like to point out that the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party does today, and has already made in the past, the statement that it is in favour of consumer protection and in favour of clarification and of the maximum information that can be obtained in the labelling of food. However, we should mention here that it is not the first time this matter comes to this House, brought systematically by the same parties. It came in 2017, in 2019 and comes now in 2021. And with regard to the composition of this House, there are virtually no differences in political forces in recent years. Therefore, what is being appreciated here today is again a discussion that has already taken place and whose initiatives have been rejected in this House. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u120	But let us look at these initiatives. I start by saying that they don't bring anything back at all. They could, for example, bring a study that said that GMOs have some adverse effect on food, some contradiction, or that there is a standard, a different rule in the European Union. But no, none of that. Once again, they make a systematic attack on Portuguese agriculture, Portuguese farmers, Portuguese agricultural production. Otherwise, let's see. I understand that the Greens Ecological Party, which is associated with the Communist Party, both the PAN and spaces, are making some coalitions with the government party. These coalitions are, yes, parliamentary GMOs, because they are transfigured, they are genetic mutations, they are living beings of the same species, but then they are transfigured to make agreements to approve, for example, budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u121	If it was for fun, you didn't have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u122	As far as the discussion is concerned, there are a number of incongruences and hypocrisies, from the beginning, in animal feed. The attack on the NAP is systematic and constant with regard to our food, human food, our ecological footprint. For their sake, we should do as in that story — allow me, Mr President, to use this metaphor — of the donkey and the gypsy. Coward, when the donkey was already unlucky to eat, unfortunately, he died! [[Protests from the MP of the Bébiana Cunha PAN.]] But human genesis requires protein and protein either has animal origin or has plant origin. And the vegetable origin, in most of what they usually teach, is soy. [[Protests from the MP of the Bébiana Cunha PAN.]] Hypocritically, soybean is 99% transgenic in its genesis. Thousands of hectares of the Amazon forest are produced to feed animals and humans. That tofu that exists with flavor of chouriço or other Mirandela is made of transgenic soybean. Therefore, this is the greatest of the hypocrisies. [[Protests from the MP of the Bébiana Cunha PAN.]] With regard to the Greens Ecological Party, in fact I must say that the concern that information is about labelling must exist. But she already exists! Today it is expected that from 0, 9 % is required to be included in the labelling of transgenic foods. However, below 0, 9 %, science has an immense difficulty in proving that the animal, three generations ago, swallowed a transgenic tangerine. What are we doing here? We are making life difficult for farmers and men connected with agriculture. So, my dears, we have to be realistic. It is not enough to dream of transgenics to then want to put there on the label « I ate a transgenic food today»! We must be completely allied with Portuguese agriculture... [[Protests from the MP of the Bébiana Cunha PAN.]] Madam Member, there is no fundamentalism here! Corn is the only food in Portugal that is susceptible to transgenic production. You know why? Because this transgenic species of corn is the only one that resists, by itself, without additional phytopharmaceuticals, to the plagues. Have you ever seen hypocrisy? Oh, my God! My dear ones, on the side of the PSD, are still with men farmers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u123	Monsanto thanks for the intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u124	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The provision of information to consumers on foodstuffs is already aimed at achieving a high level of consumer protection, protecting their health and ensuring their right to information, ensuring the safe choice and free movement of safe food in the internal market. The Green Parliamentary Group today brings the debate to a bill which seeks to extend the scope of the labelling products for genetically modified food; it intends to establish the obligation of all products containing genetically modified organisms, irrespective of the percentage, to be duly identified in the labelling, even in the case of products for which vestiges are not to be excluded; and it intends to extend the labelling rules for food with GMO to products and by-products of animal origin. The production and placing on the market of food and feed, including labelling entries, are harmonised in the European Union. Harmonisation of the rules in the European Union is a key component for the proper functioning and the guarantees provided by the single European market. European legislation on food safety, including the current information to the consumer on the labelling of foodstuffs before it is produced, goes through the scientific assessment of the European Food Safety Authority, which is an independent body providing scientific advice to the European Union on the risks associated with food, with the aim of scientifically supporting its decisions. Portugal, as a Member State of the European Union, cannot ignore existing instruments, duly framed in Union policies, in broad terms. We therefore believe that the proposal to draw up national legislation, in addition to the rules of the European Union, for the purpose of compulsory labelling of all products containing GMOs, extending it to those products in which it is not possible to exclude the unforeseeable and technically inevitable existence of traces, and products and by-products of animal origin, is unreasonable not only because of the additional costs associated with the greatest number of samples, such as by the implementation of robust and effective control systems, holders of sensitive and accredited analytical methods, involving costs for industry, retail and consequently for consumers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the protection of health and the protection of the interests of consumers must be ensured through effective means, in the context of the single European market, in which trade in foodstuffs occupies a primary place. in this measure, we consider that the concerns underlying this initiative should be properly framed within the framework of national policy instruments and treated in a broad context, including the appropriate link with Community legislation. Finally, recalling that the European Union already has one of the world's strictest food legislation and that genetically modified crops are only allowed after a thorough and scientific assessment of the risks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u126	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau recalls that there are elections to four bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic and therefore requests all parliamentary groups and Members to exercise their responsibility in this regard. For an intervention, Mr Nelson Peralta of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing two very simple bills — one of them wants there to be information on the label for consumers whether or not the food has genetically modified organisms, regardless of the percentage and whether they have been GMO-fed animals; the other wants to have information on the label on whether or not this food has had a huge environmental impact. They seem very obvious and very simple measures. But it is not the first time that these measures are presented and it frightens us whenever the PS and all right vote against. These are the parties which, with more or less regulation, with more or less invisible hand, believe that the market and market economy are the solution for all evils. And what is the market? They say it is that space where people and companies are, where there is no information asymmetry and where these individual wills are. So, with the offer and the search, we will have tomorrows that sing a glorious world, where the needs of mankind are met. With this belief in the market, for them, the privatization of natural monopolies is the functioning market, the privatization of public services is the functioning market, two millionaires making a space race is the functioning market. Good, it's mankind's advancement. If a person wants to know that the breakfast he's going to eat has cereals that are finally transgenic, or think, it's information asymmetry! There is no information to consumers here! If a person wants to know that their olive oil comes from a cultivated olive tree superintensively, or think, he cannot know! If a person wants to know if the chocolate that's going to slash in a toast comes from Indonesia and that there was a deflowering to produce palm oil, and not even think about it! We could think that this is incoherence of these parties that defend the market economy, but it is not incoherence. Mr. João Moura, from the PSD, was very clear: it is subservience to the large multinationals of the agrochemical industry. In the light of these proposals on the right to information, the PSD says: "Don't think consumers have information! There is no right to information! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u128	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u129	What you said was that GMOs are essential to humanity, must exist and that the food industry based on chemical and industrial agro-industry must exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u130	It already exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u131	For now, that's a myth. We have often heard that it is this chemical food industry of the great multinationals that will save the world from hunger. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. On the contrary. It is capitalism, that is, inequality, poverty, the great transcontinental cycles of food that cause waste and exclude many people from food. In conclusion, the Left Block is in favour of the right to information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u132	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u133	We also believe that there must be regulation, but in this particular case there must be the right to information. We regret that all the banks on the right and the PS say a lot about the market, a lot about freedom of information, but when it comes to consumers having the freedom to know what they are eating, they say « neither think». They obviously have our opposition to that. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u134	Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have two bills under discussion, both concerned about the effects of food consumption. Of course, the Greens Ecological Party bill aims to extend the scope to new labelling products for foods containing genetically modified organisms. We understand that, in fact, scientific and technological development must be put at the service of humanity in the most various areas, including agriculture, health, provided that this has health benefits and, in this case, food. But we do not give up on the principle of caution. Transgenic products also need scientific support and food safety for those who consume them. in this sense, we understand that the great bet should be in family agriculture, in small and medium sized agriculture. This, yes, produces quality products, safe products. Of course, Portugal, even taking into account the characteristics of national agricultural production, is more precisely cut for this type of agriculture than for industrial agriculture, which often results in the use of these transgenic products. That is why the Greens' proposal seems to us to be balanced. We understand that, in the field of expertise, we must avoid some of the concerns we have, particularly with regard to the requirements that this labelling can create for small agriculture. As for the NAP project, which establishes the mandatory provision of information to the consumer by food producers, we have serious doubts. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Bebiana Cunha about what she understands as a 'farmer'. Question : Does a small farmer from Aveiro who even catches vegetables on his shore have to order the University of Aveiro an environmental impact study to be able to sell them in the market? Will you also have to order an environmental impact study to be able to sell your apples, your rumans, your little carrots? It is that this farmer has already been fined by ASAE (Economic and Food Safety Authority) for not having a torn card with the price of the products he should have there! It was the court and it was acquitted, but if you do not have the environmental impact study that you are proposing, you will probably remain in prison. This makes all the difference! The NAP has to choose and tell what environmental impacts we will no longer have! Will it be the environmental impacts of potato? Do we stop producing potatoes and cucumbers? The chickens, which save everything, perhaps, also have a great environmental impact! Or are they the brown cows, the baroque ones, the cachens? What are the options the NAP has to give? I cannot finish, Mr President, without quoting a passage from the preamble to the draft law of the NAP: ‘With regard to the end of working life, human excretion and waste water treatments place an additional burden on environmental impacts. » We're just waiting for them to ban human excretion! [[PCP, PEV, PSD Member Duarte Marques and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u136	Before giving the floor to Mr. João Nicolau of the PS, I would ask that there be conditions, some calm, so that the work can continue. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP project aims to force all food producers to label their products with information on the environmental impacts caused by their production. I begin by saying that the internalization of environmental costs is a battle in which the Socialist Party has been on the front line. That is why Mrs Bebiana Cunha, whom the PS understands and looks at the key idea of internalizing environmental costs in food production, in fact, of internalizing environmental costs in everything we consume. But the NAP focused only on food production, on its agenda of attack on agricultural production, a agenda not of awareness, but of taxation. Munido of an architettura adrilosa, the NAP tries, day after day, in this House, to impose its vision of society: to force, force, force; to prohibit, ban, ban! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u138	Sorry, sorry, sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u139	These are the words of order of the overwhelming majority of the initiatives presented by the NAP in this House. And that can't be the way. The path must be to raise awareness, educate, train and raise awareness. Not having the proposal in any detail not to be 'compulsory', high costs are provided for for all producers to be able to determine, fairly and strictly, the environmental impact of all food products they produce. Imagine a small component producer, Maria Larica, for example, who has to fulfill demanding labelling obligations today, including the reference to the origin of the product, to all its ingredients, besides having to hire an environmental impact study and, who knows, the full impact of the transport to their customers individually. It would certainly be inappropriate. The PS, as I said, has worked to internalize environmental impacts and is available to work with the NAP and with all political forces in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u140	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u141	I shall now conclude, Mr President. We believe that there are other ways and mechanisms that are simpler and less expensive to integrate environmental costs into labelling than we consume and also to encourage responsible consumption habits among all Portuguese people, so as to ensure that the consumer makes a well-informed choice at the time of purchase of food goods. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u142	The next intervention was Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is certainly not the first time we have discussed these issues in plenary and, of course, the CDS will maintain its position. First of all, I would like to say that in relation to the ENP project, we spoke in consumer law and people know when they are using transgenics. This right is already recognised, exists and is already regulated. What is being discussed today is something different from that. in those situations where international regulations and international organisations find that the presence of transgenics is so residual that it does not make sense to mention, the ENP wants to put a stamp there saying that it is not possible to exclude that there may be a residue there, but that it is not detected. Well, this is clearly going too far and has nothing to do with information to the consumer, but with an ideological prejudice over certain products. Secondly, I would like to say that it is worth reading the NAP project, especially a phrase that summarizes it very well : « the food sector is one of the sectors with the greatest environmental impact ». What does the PAN mean by this? It's just that the food sector is the sector of the big pollutants. It's the vision of the NAP. As a matter of fact, it's the vision of the NAP! So, what is the solution that the NAP proposes for this serious problem of farmers and fishermen who pollute and destroy the environment, although, obviously, they also produce our food? There is a reference to environmental impact, which, according to its initiative, is as follows: « indicators associated with food production, with regard to the quantity of environmental resources or polluting agents that were needed for their production ». And the question is, Which ones? How? Calculated where? The PAN doesn't say anything about it. Let's not disturb, with technical details, the simplicity with which they present things! Open... We don't even know if this is a complete study, that is, if every food, every cow...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u144	Every cow's leaf!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u145	...or each fruit will come to have a textbook instead of a label. Only the role of this information is used to pollute more and cause more damage to the environment than the production of fruit itself. Thirdly, I wonder if it will not make sense — and perhaps there will be some concern about this — we all realize that the longer food comes, the more damaging it is to the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u146	Well, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u147	And, therefore, the promotion of close and proximity cycles is the main environmental measure. That's what they should defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u148	Far from the sight, far from the heart!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u149	Finally, I would like to say that the philosophy underlying these projects is the division of the world between good and bad. It is a philosophy of manicism, of launching against one another, and some parties feed on it to survive.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u151	And it is the philosophy of the NAP, in which the farmer is synonymous with polluter.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u152	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u153	Of course, Mr. President. I think a conscious farmer is a much more effective environmentalist than all of the NAPs, with their projects, and therefore I defend them. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u154	You have the floor for a second speech, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Cecilia Meireles tells us that she thinks it is very strange that if you want to force the label to have the information that that food may contain GMOs, that is to say, that this is very strange, even if it is vestigigial.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u156	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u157	I invite you to go to a supermarket and start reading the labels. We have many foods whose label says « it is not to be excluded that it may contain nuts» or « it is not to be excluded that it may contain milk or lactose ». If there already exists for milk and peanuts, then extending this information to GMOs seems to be the most basic and elementary, for such a thing that the CDS so prizes, which is the freedom of information in the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u158	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u159	Apparently the CDS doesn't like the market anymore. The Socialist Party has already said that these proposals are to prohibit. Well, I must say that the Left Block has proposals to ban the cultivation of GMOs, which is not now the case. However, to refuse information, as some parties want, that is to ban. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u160	We then turn to the closure of this item on the agenda. To this end, Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, perhaps, it is better to explain: with this initiative, the Greens say that it is not possible to continue forgetting consumer rights, especially with regard to the food component. I hope everyone agrees with what I just said. in this sense, in order to guarantee consumers their right of choice in food choices and diets, it is crucial to ensure information, for example, through a clear labelling, which indicates essential aspects, such as whether the product is free of GMO, which place and type of production. The ENP considers that agroecology, characterized by the management of agricultural models with good environmental practices — in principle of biological origin, in respect of the cycles of nature, and the exploiter of by-products — to which a social justice support is added, is the system that must be boosted and encouraged. Over the years and the legislatures—it is true, Mr João Moura! — The Greens have submitted a series of legislative initiatives to ban the cultivation of GMOs in Portugal. And we have been doing so since 2004, Mr, not since 2017! And the PSD, CDS and PS have systematically plunged these initiatives. Mr President, today it is just a matter of allowing consumers to make their informed choices. That's on the basis of what we expect from you. Members shall review your vote. We would also like to stress that this is not a difficult task to accomplish, from the moment that each point in the chain has the labelling made. It's simple! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a willingness to respond to the concerns that have been raised here today. It cannot continue to allow a situation of dictatorship of the GMO and that it is imposed for the benefit of multinationals. Madam Member, the multinationals are favored! And it's not about putting each other up against each other! What you want is information in multiple food areas, for the benefit of the consumer. Today, it's all about information.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u162	This concludes the fifth point of our agenda. of the sixth point, without time for discussion, include Resolution Nos 27 / XIV / 2 ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 18 December 1997, and 28 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves for accession the Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 22 November 2017. Before we go into the voting period, I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are in intense parliamentary talks, from behind to the Bureau, who do their best to accommodate themselves and that the parliamentary groups indicate when they are in a position to initiate the votes. [[Pause.]] Let us therefore start the votes. We begin with the Vote Project No. 674 / XIV / 3. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Professor Manuel Ferreira Patrício. I request Mrs Lina Lopes to proceed with the reading of the draft vote, asking the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the necessary collection in view of the reading required by the votes of censure. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death on 11 September of Manuel Ferreira Patrício, professor of cathedral and former rector of the University of Évora. Graduated in Philosophy by the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon ( 1966 ), PhD in Education Sciences, Specialist in Education Philosophy ( 1984 ) and aggregated in Education Theory and Educational Axiology by the University of Évora ( 1992 ), he was director of the University of Évora between 2002 and 2006, where he taught between 1976 and 2006, and was president of the Council of the Department of Education and Education ( 1976 - 1993 ), the Pedagogic Council ( 1990 - 1993 ) and the Governing Council ( Departmental Area of Human and Social Sciences, between 1991 and 1993 ), coordinator of the Section of Philosophy and Pedagogy and Director of the Board of Philosophy ( 1996 - 2002 ). Professor Manuel Ferreira Patrício was also Director-General of the Department of Higher Education of the Ministry of Education ( 1993 - 1996 ), Chairman of the Commission for Planning of the South Region ( 1978 - 1979 ), the Institute for Educational Innovation of the Ministry of Education ( 1987 - 1989 ) and the Scientific Council of the Beja Higher School of Education ( 1990 - 1993 ). from the extensive gallery of distinctions that recognized the merit of their work, are the author of the Doctorate Honoris Causa by the University of Porto, in 2002, the Medal of Municipal Mérito, Gold Class, by the Municipal Chamber of Évora ( 2006 ), and the Grand Cruz of the Order of the Child D. Henrique, in 2012. He is an author of great work in the areas of Pedagogy, Philosophy, Philosophy of Education, Culture and Music. He founded and directed the journals Innovation ( 1988 - 1999 ), Cultural School ( 1992 - 1994 ) and Revue ( 2004 - 2005 ), and directed the journals Noesis and Education and Freedom ( 1989 - 1990 ). Professor Manuel Ferreira Patrício, during a life of reflection, study and intense cultural and educational action, affirmed himself as an unusual figure of relevance in the panorama of meditation on the formation of man, who called it anthropagogy, as well as the hermeneutics of contemporary Portuguese thought, as he is documented by his reference studies on Leonardo Coimbra, Teixeira de Pascoaes, Fernando Pessoa and Antonio Sérgio, among many others. Meeting in plenary session, members of the Assembly of the Republic express to the family and friends of Professor Manuel Ferreira Patrício, as well as to the University of Évora, the most significant feeling of his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u164	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 675 / XIV / 3 is followed. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of José-Augusto France. I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last November 16th, at the age of 98, José-Augusto France, an unmistakable name of the culture and history of Portuguese art of the 19th and 20th centuries. He was a historian and critic of art, sociologist and pedagogue, with vast and pioneering published work, namely on the reconstruction of Lower Pombalina and on the greatest Portuguese artists of the 20th century. AArte in Portugal in the 19th century, Art in Portugal in the 20th century and Lisbon : Urbanism and Architecture or, furthermore, Lisbon : Physical and Moral History are among its most influential works. The Palace of São Bento, the seat of the Assembly of the Republic, was also the object of a magnificent study by José-Augusto France. His interest in painting reveals itself in 1946, starting to publish his first articles of art criticism on the Horizon, Jornal das Artes, while writing monographs about artists like Amadeo de Souza-Cardoso and Almada Negraeiros. In 1959, at the invitation of Pierre Francastel, sociologist and historian, José-Augusto France departed to France as a French government purser, coming to obtain in the Sorbonne the degrees of Doctor in History, in 1962, and Doctor in Letters, in 1969. Returned to Portugal, soon after 25 April, José-Augusto France joined the faculty of the University Nova de Lisboa, having established the first course of Art History of the Country, with a master's degree and doctorate, profoundly changing the panorama of art historiography in Portugal. His socialist convictions also led him to become involved in the political struggle, and soon in 1946 he signed the lists of the Movement of Democratic Unity (MUD ) and, after 25 April, integrated the list for the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon of the candidature ‘By Lisbon’, headed by Jorge Sampaio. José-Augusto France was, throughout his life, the subject of multiple distinctions, having been thanked as Grand Officer of the Order of the Child D. Henrique ( 1991 ), with the Great Cruz of the Order of Public Instruction ( 1992 ), the Great Cruz of the Order of the Child D. Henrique ( 2006 ) and the Medal of Cultural Merit ( 2012 ). The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of José-Augusto France, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I report that are in the galleries the niece of José-Augusto France and also a representation of former students and students. On behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I express our regret and a word of great respect and great comfort. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1452 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to the Canary Islands. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 107 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the terms of the term of office in the half-time of the holders of the board. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] This initiative is down to 13. the Commission. They are the parliamentary groups and Mr. Members agree that all draft resolutions on requalification of schools should be voted together? [[Pause.]] That is not the case, we will vote for them individually. We begin with the general vote on draft resolution No 272 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Need to resume the requalification works of the High School John of Barros, Corroios. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 668 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently resume the rehabilitation of the secondary school of the Sertan High School Assembly, of the municipality of Sertan, district of Castelo Branco. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Hortense Martins, Joana Bento and Nuno Fazenda and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 671 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, of the municipality of Ovar, Aveiro district. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Bruno Aragon, Filipe Neto Brandão, Hugo Oliveira, Joana Sá Pereira and Susana Correia and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 692 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the expansion and rehabilitation of the Secondary School of Porto de Mós, of the Port of Mós Grouping, of this same municipality, Leiria District. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We then generally vote on draft resolution No 702 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 July Brandão, in Vila Nova de Famalíão. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 722 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the expansion and rehabilitation of Raul Proença High School, Raul Proença High School Group, Raul Proença High School Council, Leiria District. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 738 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the high school building of Lannoso Póvoa. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 747 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the high school building 3 Camilo Castelo Branco, in Vila Real. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 750 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the retraining of the Arganil High School. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 872 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent and immediate requalification of the EB School building 2, 3 / S Pedro Ferreiro, in Ferreira do Zêzere. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Hugo Costa and Mara Coelho and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We will generally vote on draft resolution No 885 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Recommendation to the Government to re-qualify the Basic School 2, 3 and Secondary Pedro Ferreiro, in Ferreira do Zêzere. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We shall then proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 290 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent completion of the works of the John de Barros High School. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 343 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government urgently requalify the School EB 2, 3 Mário de Sá Carneiro, in the municipality of Loures, and disclose the schedule of asbestos fiber removal interventions in school equipment. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 684 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 259 / 2018 and requalify the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz, in Ovar. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Bruno Aragon, Filipe Neto Brandão, Hugo Oliveira, Joana Sá Pereira and Susana Correia and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 694 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that the re-qualification works of the High School of the Sertã are resumed urgently. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Hortense Martins, Joana Bento and Nuno Fazenda and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 708 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The urgent rehabilitation of the Escola Secundária de Esmoriz ( Ovar ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Bruno Aragon, Filipe Neto Brandão, Hugo Oliveira, Joana Sá Pereira and Susana Correia and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 710 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( ENP) — For the urgent re-qualification work of the High School of the Sertan. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Hortense Martins, Joana Bento and Nuno Fazenda and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 721 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently, programme, agenda and carry out the necessary works for the expansion and requalification of the Secondary School of Port of Mos. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 736 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government schedule retraining works at Raúl Proença High School in the Queen's Horses. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 737 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify primary school 2, 3 July Brandão, Vila Nova de Famalíão. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 749 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 257/2018 and requalify the High School of Póvoa de Lannoso. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 766 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake works at the 3 Camilo Castelo Branco High School, Vila Real. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 874 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the immediate requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 and Secondary Pedro Ferreiro of Ferreira do Zêzere. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Hugo Costa and Mara Coelho and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 991 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary works at Raul Proença High School in the Queen's Horses. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1028 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the completion of the requalification works of the High School of the Sertan. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Hortense Martins, Joana Bento and Nuno Fazenda and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 1237 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the Camilo Castelo Branco High School in Vila Real. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. We will generally vote for Resolution Project No. 1274 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Modernization and requalification of the Camilo Castelo Branco High School in Vila Real. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This initiative goes down to 8.The Commission. With no objection, we shall now proceed to the vote, together, of four requests, submitted by the authors of their legislative initiatives, asking for the fall to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without voting for 60 days of Bill No. 919 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Sets limits on the advertising of games and bets (Tenth sixth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October ), 343 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets restrictions on advertising in games and bets ( tenth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October ), 951 / XIV/ 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Advertising Code in order to make mandatory the warning of the potential of creating dependence in social games such as euro million, raspadins, totobola / totoloto and lotteries and 952 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Limits advertising to games and bets and approves consumer protection measures and promotion of literacy on the risks associated with the game by 15. the amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1445 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 618 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Current account between taxpayers and the State. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u167	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u168	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u169	Mr President, it is to be announced that the NAP will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u170	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 865 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — For the protection of shark mako / anequim ( isurus oxyrinchus and isurus paucus ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE and PCP were rejected, votes against the NAP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u171	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u172	The honourable Member asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u173	Mr President, it is to indicate that we will deliver a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 864 / XIV / 2. a (NAP) — Remote electronic monitoring of fishing vessels. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from PSD, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. We now have the vote on draft resolution No 1332 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Prohibition of the use of lead in fishing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, the PCP, the PEV and the IL.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 1389 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the recognition and allocation of a professional status to the maritime observer for fisheries. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and the abstention from the ENP.]] The initiative goes down to 7. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 833 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Determines the end of bottom trawling with a view to protecting marine ecosystems. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions against PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u175	Mr President, to point out that we will make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u176	You are duly marked, Mr. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 1239 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to minimise the impact of fishing. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and IL and PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 31 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Extends the scope to new labelling products for foods containing transgenics. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 944 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — establishes the obligation to provide information to the consumer on the environmental costs of food production, amending Decree-Law No 138 / 90 of 26 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u177	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u178	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u179	Mr President, to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u180	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 27 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves for ratification the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, opened for signature in Strasbourg, 18 December 1997. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 28 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves for accession the Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 22 November 2017. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We are now in the vote, which will be done by points, separately, as required by the Left Block, of the Draft Resolution No 1403 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — For a common agricultural policy more useful for society and fairer for all territories and farmers. Let us then begin by voting on point 1 of this initiative. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and IL.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and IL and abstentions by the PS and PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3 of this motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, the PCP and the ENP.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The vote on point 5 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from PS, PSD, PCP and PEV.]] We now vote on point 6. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 7 of this motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and IL and abstentions by the PS and PSD.]] We shall vote on point 8. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, CDS-PP and ENP and PS, PSD and CH abstentions.]] Finally, we voted point 9 of draft resolution No 1433/XIV/2. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and IL and abstentions from PS, PSD, PCP, PEV and CH.]] We now proceed to the vote on a request by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members to request a new assessment in general for more than 90 days of Bill No 798 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Criminalization of unjustified enrichment ( fifty-second amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March and seventh amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July ), 805 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates the crime of unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth ( second amendment to the regime of the Exercise of Functions by holders of Political Charges and High Public Charges), 816 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, extending the reporting obligations and densifying the crime of concealment of enrichment, 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Extends the reporting obligations of the holders of political and high public positions and creates the crime of intentional concealment of enrichment, by making the second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 860 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The second amendment is made to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July with a view to preventing and combating unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth, 867 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the crime of withholding profits and revises the penalties applicable to liability crimes committed by holders of political and high public positions, 874 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Strengthens the transparency duty imposed on holders of political positions and high public positions ( second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ), 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, extending reporting obligations and providing for mandatory communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the lack of indication of the facts that led to capital increases and 881 / XIV / 2. a ( Unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Creates the crime of concealment of wealth in order to prevent corruption and increase public integrity. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions No 1352 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Promotion of a plan for the protection and depollution of the Paiva River, 1377 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to defend the sustainability of the Paiva River and its tributaries, 1387 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Implementation of measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the Paiva River and its tributaries and 1395 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the urgent application of measures for the depollution and preservation of the Paiva River. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 46 to 62 of the Diário, concerning plenary meetings of 18 and 25 February, 3, 9, 11, 17, 25 and 31 March, 8, 14, 15, 21, 22, 25, 28 and 29 April and 5 May of the year. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Mr Adam Silva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u181	Mr President, as is the case with praxia, I think it might be worth stressing that at this time votes are taking place in the Senate Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u182	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. I appreciate your call for attention. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau reiterates the importance of all Members and all Members. Members shall vote in the elections for four bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic which are taking place in the Senate Chamber and shall be extended shortly after the closure of our work, as is the case in this House. Before moving to the agenda for the next session, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce that Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP, because she was in confinement, accompanied by videoconferencing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-10-01.u184	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce the agenda for the plenary meeting to take place on Wednesday 6th. In the first point, we will have the joint assessment of Bill Nos 780 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation in eligibility for blood, 943 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Promotes blood donation and prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender identity or sexual orientation in eligibility to give blood, 945 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and sexual characteristics in blood donation and 947 / XIV / 3. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Other Law No. 37 / 2012 of 27 August, preventing discrimination in blood donation due to sexual orientation. the second point will include the discussion of the Bill No 111 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — regulates the use of video camera surveillance systems by security forces and services, together with the Resolution Project No 988 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Acquisition of load chambers ( bodycams) for service vehicles and for video surveillance in teams and stations. At the third point, we will have the assessment of Petition No 109 / XIV / 1. a ( Union S.T.O.P. ) — by reducing the number of students per class, by rejuvenation of the teaching class and by dignity of non-teaching staff in schools. In the fourth point, the CL shall be assessed at Petition No 140 / XIV / 2. a ( Daniel José Henriques Martins et al.) — To preserve the Carnaxide greenhouse, together with Resolution Projects Nos 754 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Classification of Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 772 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of Carnaxide greenhouse as a protected landscape, 782 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Visa the classification of Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 802 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government classify the Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 1169 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the safeguarding and exploitation of Carnaxide greenhouse, 1196 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government protect the Carnaxide greenhouse and 1246 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By preserving the Carnaxide greenhouse and its enjoyment by the populations. of the fifth point shall be the assessment of Petition No 114 / XIV / 1. a ( APDP-Associación protectiona dos Diabetices de Portugal ) — How many are we with type 1 diabetes? , together with Resolution Projects Nos 1066 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Creation of a national register of type 1 diabetes, 1213 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Creation of the national register of patients with type 1 diabetes, 1256 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Concretization of a national register of type 1 and 1443 / XIV / 2 diabetes. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation and implementation of a single national register of type 1 diabetes in Portugal. We are thus finishing today's meeting. To all, the Bureau thanks the collaboration, wishing you a good weekend and a good holiday for the commemoration of the Republic. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 17 minutes.]]
