ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The plenary session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 12 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the authority shall be in favour of opening the galleries, in accordance with the rules in force. on the agenda today, there is a current debate required by the Greens Ecological Party under Article 74. the Rules of Procedure, on the catch of bivalves in the Tejo estuary — environmental, social and labor issues. To open the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have spent their last parliamentary days on issues of sustainability of the protected areas and the Tejo estuary on the Setúbal Peninsula. Among the issues we have discussed, one of them was the catch of bivalves in the Tejo estuary, a very serious problem which, not being new, continues to gain very worrying proportions and which has long claimed answers. I speak of responses to environmental problems that this activity continues to enhance in ecosystems and at the level of biodiversity, but also of responses to social, labor and public health problems that the illegal catch of bivalves is causing, in the face of the passivity of this and other governments. Indeed, in the Tejo estuary, from Trafaria to Samouco, tons and tons of Japanese hazelnuts and other bivalves continue to be collected daily without any control or supervision. According to the studies, in 2015 they were collected between 9 and 47 t per day only of memijoa-japonica and only in the cove of Montijo and Samouco. These are really impressive numbers and give us an approximate dimension of the seriousness of the problem that the Greens bring to the debate today. Still, this activity remains unregulated, with all the consequences that arise there and that continue over time, from the level of sustainability of marine resources, biodiversity and ecosystems, but also of other problems associated with the way this activity develops. We refer, for example, to the living conditions of many of these captors, of the labour exploitation they are subject to, but also to the danger in terms of food safety because these bivalves come to the table of the literally contaminated consumer. Let's go to the facts: the bivalves collected in the Tejo estuary are sold directly to markets and restaurants or intermediaries who subsequently introduce them on the market illegally and at prices much higher than the price of the first sale. According to the same studies, in 2015 the Japanese hazelnut was bought to the catcher by values ranging from 0, 80 € to 4 €, per kilo, when the final consumer paid between 8 € to 12 €, per kilo. In 2014 alone, the business will have yielded between EUR 10 million and EUR 23 million. The worst thing is that illegally traded bivalves, which are not subject to any analysis or purification processes, arrive at the consumer contaminated with toxins and heavy metals, which gives rise to a serious public health problem. As we know, the upstream catch of bivalves on the Vasco da Gama bridge is prohibited due to lead contamination, but we do not have guarantees that the bivalves are not collected there, that they do not end up entering the market and that they do not reach the consumer table in turn. On the other hand, down the bridge, the catch is allowed. It happens that this area has the classification C, which means that bivalves can be caught, but, to be placed on the market, they have to go through the debugger because they are contaminated with toxins and heavy metals, and therefore they need to be refined. If the government does not define and license the refining zones for natural bivalve clearance and if there is no industrial debugger, in addition to the sale being illegal, the bivalves arrive at the potentially contaminated consumer table. On the definition of the refining areas for bivalves collected in zones C, we know nothing; on the construction of a unit for the transformation, enhancement and purification of bivalves, in the Barreiro, which was, in fact, announced by the Government, with pump and circumstance, in 2017, we only know that the process is suspended due to the foundations. But we hope that today, in this debate, the Government will bring us good news on this matter. On the other hand, it takes no rules, as in Odemira, it is moved by the exploitation and abuse of people, many of them immigrants, who live in unworthy places, having communities living in garages and warehouses and without any conditions of hygiene and health. Moreover, a significant universe of these people, especially immigrants, is obliged to assist the organizers of immigration routes to enter Portugal, to obtain accommodation and to have the tools of work for the catch, which are often rented. For this reason, workers are indebted to these debtors—who, on the pretext of these debts, literally tied the catchers to their domain and exploitation—to whom they have to sell the product of their work and the price that those intermediaries understand. The organization of travel and the demand for work in a foreign country, of people without economic resources and without language domain, often goes through small and numerous intermediaries to whom not even the name is known. In view of this scenario, which is not worthy of a rule of law, what is required of the government, in addition to the construction of the debugger, is the development of a plan with an integrated approach to the management of resources that establishes the universe of licences to be allocated to the resources available and which regulates the entire marketing chain. What is required is that the Government should channel efforts, together with local authorities, to identify situations of abuse and exploitation of work, but also situations of angry housing, and that there are public responses to housing needs. What is required of the Government is a substantial strengthening of supervision, capable of combating labour abuse, housing irregularities and avoiding the environmental problems that it continues to face. What is necessary is that the Government looks at the need to recover species and habitats and to mitigate or eliminate the problem of water contamination and sediment in the Tejo estuary. That's how it can't be. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u3	Even during the opening of the debate, Mr. Minister of the Sea, Ricardo Serra Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: John dos Passos begins his book The Portugal Story referring to our ancestors, as, and I quote, "consumers of seafood from the coast of what is today Portugal". The exploitation of shellfish, particularly bivalves, as we know, is millennial in our backs, including in the Tejo estuary, and has been crucial in social, economic and cultural terms, gaining a relevant and problematic environmental dimension in our anthropocene era. Currently, it is an activity that moves hundreds or thousands of people, from the catchers to the final seller. We all know that there are very positive factors in the catch of bivalves, but there are also enormous weaknesses today. The government has been monitoring and seeking to implement solutions to the issues of the Tejo estuary, which are reflected in the environmental quality of the environment and in the estuary's mariners in all their dimensions. The scope of the questions that arise requires a detailed explanation of the current situation of the Tejo estuary. Licensing is the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services ( DGRM ), which issued 230 licences — the activity is regulated — and 14 of these have been allocated to non-national citizens, whose situation is regularized before social security and the Tax Authority. While taking into account all existing applications, which are more than 20 at present, the maximum quota of 317 licences is not entirely occupied. According to the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), there are two production areas in the Tejo River estuary : the downstream of the Vasco da Gama bridge, in which the catch of lambujinhas is prohibited by the existence of heavy metals, and the remaining bivalves can already be caught, but must be processed, that is, they have the classification C; the amount of the Vasco da Gama bridge, in which capture is prohibited due to contamination of heavy metals and fecal coliforms, according to the species. For the application of Community rules, this statute will remain until the end of 2021. The Republican National Guard ( GNR ), the Navy, DGRM, ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) and the ACT ( Labour Conditions Authority ) carry out regular control and supervision actions in which many illegal situations are confirmed. These included a total of 213 counter-coordination processes since 2020 and were seized 108 hooks, as well as 41 boats and 18 motor vehicles. Maintaining the current pace in the monitoring actions, the year 2021 will increase by about 30 % in the number of shares compared to the previous year. Especially since 2017, the Working Conditions Authority, together with the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ) and the Maritime Police, has been carrying out monitoring actions. It is noted that the intervention has been very difficult to identify employers or beneficiaries of the activity in a relationship of employer, since the area is in the public domain of the sea and the fishers of the hazelnut report that it is only for their own consumption. In environmental matters, the bodies of the Ministry of the Sea and the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action are attentive to the results of microbiology analyses, particularly in the area upstream of the Vasco da Gama bridge, and are preparing the necessary actions to improve water quality. Despite remaining problems related to sanitation networks and lifting stations, particularly in periods of high rainfall, the concerted effort has enabled the improvement of the biological quality of the Tejo estuary. It is worth noting that the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use) has been explicitly supporting municipalities and sanitation management entities in solving this type of problem that is their responsibility. It should be noted that one of the aspects that imposes limitations on the capture of bivalves of the Tejo estuary relates to the fact that a considerable part of the production areas of bivalve molluscs present the classification C. This classification only allows the consumption of bivalves after processing, and the vast majority cannot be referred to debugger. It was for this reason, and because of the need to improve the valorization of bivalves classified with letters C, which identified the need for the construction of the bivalve transformation unit of the Tejo. The reported difficulties do not result from a lack of clearance unit. In addition, some existing clearance units have been closed due to lack of product for debugging. This is what happened, for example, to the company. The construction of the processing unit of Bivalor is in fact planned for thermal processing and high pressure techniques, as well as for the recovery of shells. In the context of the implementation of this unit, serious limitations related to the foundations that led to increased costs and risks were found at a posteriori, which cannot be minimized. In an attempt to find the best solution to the issue, the IPMA assessed the options in the perspective of maximizing the potentialities of this unit and will restart the work, the value of which is added to EUR 573,000, currently being approved this budget increase. The completion of this work will allow to regulate some situations, but will hardly treat the universe of existing illegal catchers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u5	To begin the first round of questions, you have the floor of Mrs Sofia Araújo. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u6	I would like to congratulate Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I begin by greeting the Greens Greens for bringing this important issue to the debate, but I also want to point out that it is not only important to indicate what has never been done or what has not been done, but also important that they also present possible and concrete solutions to this problem. The theme of bivalve catch, particularly the Japonic hazelnut in the Tejo estuary, is in fact a very complex and recurrent matter, which lacks a cross-cutting approach. The multiple problems associated with this activity are recognised, in particular social, public health, environmental, labour, economic and commercial, to those who add the necessity of monitoring and public safety action. A proper combination is required between the sustainable exploitation of resources and economic and social aspects, never forgetting all those who have lost their lives in the pursuit of this activity, often their only livelihood. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u7	in this sense, the government has been monitoring, well, and seeking solutions to the issues of the Tejo estuary maricadores, in the most varied perspectives, those issues that deserve the framework in the State Budget for 2021. It should also be noted that it is very important for this debate to focus, uniquely and exclusively, on bivalve catchers in the Tejo estuary — and only on the Tejo estuary alone! — and let us not jump to other realities in our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u8	So there are several entities involved in solving this problem, as we have heard, and well, Mr Minister says. This is the case with the IPMA, as a national authority responsible for the control of biotoxins and for the health classification of all areas of production in mainland Portugal. It should be noted that one of the aspects that imposes limitations on bivalve capture in the Tejo estuary relates to the fact that a considerable part of the bivalve mollusc production areas presents the classification C, which Mr. Minister has already explained, which can only allow consumption after processing. That is why the government — and well! — in the past legislation, he evaluated the possibility of building a bivalve processing unit of the Tejo, in which Docapesca will have the function of managing the organisation and management process of first sale, which is, in fact, the scope of its function. On construction at the Barreiro, we already know that it is a research project funded by the Operational Programme MAR 2020. We also know — the Minister has just told us — what the constraints of this work were, but everything is being done for the real progress of the work. The ACT also monitors this activity in unauthorized areas since 2017, together with other entities, including GNR, SEF, local authorities and public health entities, maritime and economic activity monitoring and civil protection. As far as licensing is concerned, as Mr Minister has already pointed out, 225 licences were issued in 2021. All these licences are from Portuguese and foreign citizens and they all have their status regularized before social security and before the Tax Authority. The GNR has developed preventive measures of supervision and deterrence, control and monitoring actions, as well as criminal investigation activities, especially aimed at this phenomenon, which also work at the level of tax fraud and illicit enrichment. It should also be noted that, given the repercussions, the size of the media exposure of this case and the public health risk already evident in other countries of the European Union, in particular in Spain, GNR has developed criminal actions with the Spanish authorities and Europol aimed at undoing the criminal networks operating in this area. As bivalves are caught in the Tejo estuary an economic activity also practiced by immigrant citizens, with the main incidence in the municipalities of Alcochete, Barreiro and Montijo, this issue has been accompanied by both the Government and the High Commissioner for Migration, together with local power and civil society, thus enhancing the promotion and integration of immigrant populations and an integrated response to these types of dynamic and so complex problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, we also point out that, during the pandemic, the Ministry of the Sea has ensured all operators in the fisheries sector, regardless of nationality, individual protective equipment and tests to COVID-19, made available in the lots and landing sites, as well as in the associations of fishermen and producer organisations. About 4750 tests were carried out and 28 awareness-raising actions were carried out by the Portuguese Navy in the field of on-board safety practices related to COVID-19. Therefore, there is no doubt about the Government's enormous effort to resolve this problem in its different areas. It is true that more and more can be done and PS Members, particularly the deputies of the electoral circle of Setúbal, as well as the socialist authorships of Alcochete, Montijo, Barreiro and Almada will continue to struggle and will do everything to minimize the negative impact of this activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u9	The activity is not negative!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u10	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the PSD presents itself in this debate with a constructive and proactive stance. Moreover, as can be seen, it is the position which is followed by the majority of the parties seated in this Parliament. However, as incredible as it may seem, there is someone who maintains a stance of neglect and inaction. I am obviously addressing the government here, which is represented by VV. Ex., and, with due respect, I must say that they bring us here "a hand full of nothing"...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u12	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u13	...and have successively closed their eyes to something that is in sight of everyone, which is the illegal catch of bivalves on the Roof. We are dealing here with an absolute contradiction, because we are talking about a government that is not tired of acting in relation to the lack of the slightest formalism in any legally constituted company.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u15	We are talking about a government that does not tire of checking shops, commercial establishments, restaurants and conditioning its activity whenever necessary, even if this has economic consequences. But go there to understand: it is this same government that allows the illegal catching of beech trees to last for years in the Tejo estuary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u17	And it allows because you want it, it's not for lack of warning. Moreover, in May last year the PSD again alerted the problem, once again moving to the place and presenting a legislative initiative in this House, which recommends public health, economic, environmental and social solutions, because these are problems which, incomprehensiblely, have been dragged down for years. These are problems to which, inexplicably, the Government does not respond, but, worse, it justifies the convivence with the current situation with a mere question of engineering, as Mr Prime Minister answered here in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD, the proper management of coastal areas and the exploitation of renewable resources are a crucial point for integrating ecological, biological, economic and social issues. So we have come to the bottom of the matter. What do you need to do? First, it is necessary to adjust the number of licences allocated to the availability of the species following the review of the regulation of fishing and the licensing of catchers. Secondly, it is essential to check and regulate the social and labor conditions of the catchers. Finally, it is equally serious — if not more serious even! — it is the question of public health, because one of the consequences of this unregulated growth is precisely the lack of conditions that ensure public health and health. Thus, it seems urgent to us to build a unit for deposit, transformation and enhancement of these bivalves, as the former Government seemed to recognize in 2017, but, however, forgot. In conclusion, it is in this context that the PSD advocates specific management and regulation measures for bivalve take-up in the Tejo estuary and, at the same time, control measures at the level of bivalve marketing in order to promote fairer trade in economic and social terms. Let us therefore hope that this debate will bring together efforts to resolve this problem, which has become an absolutely unsustainable situation. PSD knows, points and indicates the solution. It remains to see if it is finally this time that the Executive, VV. For example, it performs effectively and expeditiously. But I confess that we are already like São Tomé : « see to believe! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u18	Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho also spoke for the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u19	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, we obviously see a difference in Mr Minister — and honor be made to him! — It was honest, honest and direct when I said, in a regimental hearing, that this was your "Aquiles heel". It is true, Mr Minister, and I am almost sure, that Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, did not count on his sincerity, nor, probably, the parties that make this government viable and that naturally enable Mr Minister, as is the case with the ENP, the CFP, which, in practice, do not draw red lines... In fact, they trace, but then, near the State Budget, they're getting more and more pink, aren't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u20	Yeah, yeah! Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u21	They're losing their color!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u23	So, Mr. Minister was honest and caught everyone surprised. Now we are going to the solutions that are necessary to deal with this social problem, because it is essential that the "Aquiles heel" cease to exist, that the problem taken by the Minister no longer exists. This is so that we are not in an increasingly common position here that politicians try to exonerate their problems. In practice, it is not only the Socialist Party that assumes itself as part of the answer, but that is part of the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u24	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u25	There are also other parties that help PS every day in this problem. There are municipal chambers of the PCP and PS that pollute the river Tejo, there is the shared responsibility of the authorities and of this government, and a response is needed. They also respond to Mr Minister. He was honest with you and he is also your minister, because you make this government possible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u26	Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u27	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members, Members, the PSD seems to suffer a blackout every time it ceases to be government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u29	... because these problems are not new, but today they are remembered. They did nothing to solve them when they were government. Every day thousands of people catch Japanese bead on the Roof, many in total precariousness. The former and the current Government of the Socialist Party have never also given due importance to this problem. The failure of the government leaves many people who work there on the mercy of authentic mafia that take advantage of the vulnerable situation of many seafarers and seafarers, to buy omnijoa which, in large part, illegally introduce into the Spanish State, to be treated and sold there. We know that many people are unemployed or in search of an economic supplement to their low wages. Many immigrants have come to our country in search of better living conditions, but today they live in harsh conditions, like what is happening in agriculture and fisheries. There is no shortage of « Odemeiras» in Portugal! They are victims of mafia, with those who commit debts in order to get to Portugal, obtain accommodation — much of it in bad and unworthy conditions — and acquire material for the takeover. Debt is blackmail for the domain and exploitation, forcing seafarers and seafarers to sell exclusively to the creditor at reduced prices. On intermediaries, there are complaints that indicate criminal association, tax fraud, falsification of documents, money laundering, crimes against public health, illegal possession of weapons, trafficking in human beings and aid to illegal immigration. Will the government continue to allow abuse, delaying the resolution of these problems? In recent years, police have set up operations to combat illegal seizures, but problems persist because activity has never been properly regulated by the government. Currently, there are only 230 licences for thousands of seafarers. In the Block, we require measures for the integrated management of the bivalve catch, which define the licenses to be allocated to the available resources. Is the government available for this? We are talking about measures to eradicate the pollution of the Tejo and to recover the good ecological state of the estuary, measures to regulate the entire marketing chain and to implement the installation of a clearing and processing unit of bivalves, next to the Tejo estuary. Ending the mafia is creating conditions so that the hazelnut can be purified and transformed in Portugal, enabling its legal sale and allowing to break the abuse of intermediaries. In 2017, the government signed a protocol...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u30	2015! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u31	...for the creation of an industrial unit for the transformation of bivalves in the Barreiro, but the work never saw the light of the day. How many more years will the Barreiro and the region have to wait for local requalification and have access to a public bivalve transformation unit? The government has failed these professionals and all consumers, because it has allowed them to drag away from a situation which, in addition to labour and environmental abuse, is in itself a public health problem, because there are no food security guarantees for the consumption of bivalves caught there. The State budget for 2021 provides for funds to begin the regularisation of the bivalve catch in the Tejo, but once again the announced investments have not been implemented. The Minister of the Sea, requested by the Block, has already said that this is the government's « Achilles heel », but so far investments are no more than promises and the government is no exception to the problem resolution. Mr Minister, tell us what commitments and specific deadlines the Government has if it has them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u32	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Greens for bringing this relevant issue to debate. I would also like to congratulate you on your parliamentary work. I hope that they have been successful, in terms of the work produced, in order to find solutions for the population. Finally, I would like to greet you in a serious way as you address this issue. In fact, we need to flee from populism which is often sought by those who, having responsibilities, could have already solved the problem, but who instead try to make a political use of the situation and face the problem in media terms in order to escape the discussion. The situation is serious, it is prolonged and needs solutions, which are diverse, because the problems are diverse, but it is necessary to find them. We need to make a correct diagnosis, so we can find the answer to these problems. The situation related to the catch of bivalve molluscs in the river Tejo has been worsening. The intervention that the CFP has had for a long time is known. In fact, since 2009 we have had legislative and questioning interventions to the government on this situation. In 2012, we submitted proposals to the PSD/CDS government, which we could not see approved either. Therefore, measures are needed to resolve the very complex situation that exists there. We must start from this serious evaluation: we are faced with a situation in which there is a problem of imbalance of the Tejo river ecosystem, because we are facing an invasive species that has come to occupy space, competing with species, also bivalves, already resident in the Tejo. But we are also faced with a situation in which the entire ecosystem is affected, from the very point of view of what it has to do with the production of eel and language. Therefore, there are certain species of fish that are affected by the uncontrolled existence of this population. Mr. Minister, you need an answer! There has to be a response here, in the sense of population control, not only because none of this catch has any conditions to be introduced into the food chain, but also due to the need for a balance of the ecosystem. However, we also have an important source of revenue, in terms of national production, that it is important to take advantage of, because there is a situation to which it is necessary to give a social response and for which it is not possible to stop looking at, ignoring it. This is because many of these families, many of these thousands of captors, as Mr. Minister himself acknowledged here today, are dependent on this activity. And often these thousands of jobs arise because these people have no others, they are an escape from the lack of employment in other activities. Not having this activity, what is done to these thousands of people who are there? Therefore, Mr Minister — and with this I also reply to Mrs Sofia Araújo, who recently said that we had brought the solutions here — what we need, in the view of the CFP, is, of course, a more detailed zone. These two areas, one of which is forbidden to catch up the Vasco da Gama bridge, and the other, downstream, where it is not prohibited, nor even useful for clearance, since classification C does not allow its use to be used only for the processing industry, they are of little use. Therefore, the requirement that is placed — being the Minister available for this purpose — is that of a zone of the river Tejo. The other questions have to do with the Tejo estuary regulation. Mr Minister, there is a need, « as bread for the mouth », to regulate the Tejo estuary in terms of its activities, including with regard to bivalve catching. Finally, I must mention two situations. One of them has to do with the license and this is the following: if we are sure that there are about 5000 catchers and that we only have 230 licenses, what doesn't hit right? There's something wrong with it. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u35	I conclude now, Madam President. Thus, we need to control this bivalve population and significantly increase this number of licences. Later, Mr Minister, in the next rounds of questions, I will have the opportunity to ask about the debugger. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u36	I would like to congratulate the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials and the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. By continuing our debate, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Morais Soares, of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u37	Madam President, I welcome Mr Minister, Mr. Secretary of State and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to greet the Greens Ecological Party on the subject that brings us today: the takeover of bivalves in the Tejo estuary — environmental, social and labor issues, to which I would also add public health and safety issues. In fact, we are facing a serious economic and social tragedy and problem, where we have complicated situations for many Portuguese and migrant families. We are faced with a problem of work, in which the conditions under which this is taken are inhumane, as well as the entire circuit involved. We are also faced with situations, which cannot be ignored, of child labour, in some cases, of catching the bivalves. We are still facing a serious environmental problem. Nor can we ignore that we are facing a real organized network, a real mafia that controls the whole circuit. Controls the catch circuit, controls the distribution circuit, controls the sales circuit, controls boats, the rental of boats, controls, including equipment and sale of diving equipment and other utensils. There are also situations of possible falsification of clearance stamps. That is to say, Mr Minister, we are not faced with a problem of only one, we are indeed faced with a serious and complex problem. Mr Minister, with regard to this situation of catching up of hazelnuts and the illegal labour force of migrants—but there are also many Portuguese families, entire families experiencing economic, social and financial difficulties, who resort to this catch of bivalves to survive—only watching on the spot, on a low tide, and seeing all the people there, is that there can be a real notion of the problem we are living. According to the captain of the port of Lisbon, the situation is uncontrollable. To understand it, we could resort to a series of news from newspapers that have been coming to the public, with the following titles: Mafias control omegajoa on the Tejo ; Illegal catch of tons of beehive on the Tejo public health threat; Capapa de ameijoa Japanesea is forbidden, but attracts hundreds of sailors in the estuary of the Tejo. In fact, we could talk about a lot of news that has come to the public from there, Minister, and would like to ask you the following: what has the government done, what has your Ministry done with the other ministries, because it is a problem involving various ministries and various State secretaries, in the sense of an effective resolution of the problem? Or will the Minister continue to "swim aside" as if nothing had happened, continuing to worsen, day by day?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u38	I'm sorry I recently didn't say hi to the ladies. Members of the Government. I'll do it now. To request clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u39	Madam President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and I welcome the ENP's agenda. The NAP, since its seat in this House, has denounced, exposed and presented proposals for the various problems and situations in the country that configure forms of labour exploitation, aid to illegal immigration and with strong signs of linkage to human trafficking networks. That is, it has not been for lack of warning, it has not been for lack of inquiry, it has not been for lack of proposals that the Government has not acted assertively in this matter to effectively ensure a real fight against this social scourge that is clearly linked to labour issues and also environmental issues. In addition, in the urgent debate that we discussed about the situation due to the health crisis in Odemira, we all once again sought to alert the Government to the existing reality and to what is the link between human health and the health of the planet—in fact, the Government should give more attention to the Secretary-General of the United Nations (United Nations ), when he said that human health and health of the planet are two sides of the same coin. About the people who catch oyster on the Roof, since 2012 that the Maritime Police have signalled this reality and it is said until there were those who exchanged drug trafficking for this beehive business for having less risks, but have similar profits. We are facing a very serious problem and the question that we would like to put to the government from now on is whether it will solve this problem with the construction of a bivalve processing unit. As it did in Odemira, in 2019 the Government sought to solve a very serious problem by means of a resolution by the Council of Ministers legitimizing the conditions under which the people there lived, perfectly inhumane conditions of total insecurity, and which were in conflict with the defence of human rights. But this situation is not new either, and I would like to recall here the report, awarded in 2017 and entitled Slaves of the Rio, where the almond catchers were clearly focused, but also the people who took fruit in the Costa Vicentina. So what we want to know here today is what the government has done in these four years, what it has done since the Maritime Police has this problem signalled, how many inspections it has done to these workers. We want to know whether the government actually believes that it is creating wings in prisons to stop irregular immigrants who will solve this problem. We understand that this is obviously not the way and that it is necessary to value the river Tejo as a natural heritage. We would like to know what concrete actions are planned and what have been carried out in recent years. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u40	For clarifications, Mrs Mariana Silva, from the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are talking about a topic that concerns thousands of families and endangers public health and the environment. Concerns about the illegal catch of bivalves on the Tejo have come by far and have motivated successive visits, questions and initiatives. Today we stand in the commitments made in 2018 by the Minister of the Sea of the former Government of the Socialist Party. On a question asked by a member of the Government party, the Minister made two central commitments to clarify this issue. On the one hand, the development of a health plan, including the zoning of bivalve production subareas in the Tejo estuary, which would be the responsibility of the IPMA. The question put by Mr Minister is where this plan is, when the public debate will be put, and when the light of the day comes. It is that, without such a plan, all that can be done is mere casuistic, random, repressive interventions, eventually, but without realizing what its effect is. Nor can the promised supervision be carried out in conditions, because we do not know exactly what to control. On the other hand, in relation to the creation of a bivalve dispatch and transformation centre, the famous debugger whose work had even been awarded in that year, what is known is that, in June 2017, a ceremony was held with Mrs. Minister, in which a protocol was signed with this objective. It is no longer known, in addition to the information that the work did not take place, because the ground where it was going to be installed did not withstand the pressure of the infrastructure. Today, we know from the Minister, if I understood correctly, that the money to carry out this work increased €573,000, but we do not know at the same time when the work started and where it will be executed. Having arrived here, the question will be the same: when will we have the center of dispatch and transformation of bivalves, which is absolutely indispensable to value this activity and to bring to legality a large-scale activity? I take advantage of the subject to ask the Government another question. The bivalves of certain areas of the Tejo show dangerous concentrations of toxicity, because the waters of the Tejo, where they are born and developed, have high levels of pollution, dangerous metals, toxins and even fecal coliforms. It happens that the catch of bivalves, with such intensity as that which is recorded today in the Tejo, revolves around the muds where these harmful elements are deposited, also has direct consequences, causing them to move and enter into the feeding of various species, eventually reaching human food. We have to intervene downstream, equipping the area of the debugger, but the central issue is to strip the river, i.e. intervene upstream, in the causes of this pollution and in the recovery of the affected areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u43	This is a much more demanding undertaking than building a structure. The question is when will take firm steps in this direction. It's just that we're not just dealing with the quality of the bivalves. To intervene in the requalification of this area means to defend all its biodiversity, it means to defend native species and it means to restore the quality of life to coastal populations. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u44	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I did not want to start this debate without pointing out the ridiculous we are doing today. While the country is debating one of the biggest crises in recent years, while failures keep increasing in our country, Parliament is discussing « the bivalve catch in the Tejo estuary ». If it wasn't a joke, it was the tragedy of a country that lost the notion of what it should do and of the debates it should mark. Yes, at the same time that failures increase in Portugal more than in any country of the European Union, at the same time that unemployment in Portugal, young and non-young, reaches all in its country, the ENP marks a debate on bivalves' catch in the Tejo. [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]] If it were not comical, it would be tragic, but still we do not stop intervening in this debate, to ask you the following, Mr Secretary of State: how can you be here, hearing questions like those you have heard, telling you that you have to solve the problem of trafficking in immigrants, slave labour and labour exploitation, when it was this government, I repeat, this government, with the support of the extreme left, which allowed what is happening in Odemira today? How does the NAP come to tell us about the harvest of fruit, when it was the PAN itself, along with the left, which allowed there to be precarious work in those areas today? It is because this is due to the Socialist Party and its supporters of the extreme left. But now he agreed to play on the essential point, so that he would not have the idea that Parliament had spent an afternoon discussing the bivalve catch in the Tejo estuary: what the government is going to do, yes, about a problem that I said in 2018 that I would solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u46	Mr President, I thank you for your conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u47	I will finish, Madam President. This problem is that of pollution, which the government had said would reduce to half, but we continue to have unbearable levels of pollution, which call into question the stability and standard of living of the population. That's what the government should have done. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u48	Pollution is what we hear now!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u49	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of the Sea, Ricardo Serrão Santos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u50	The estuary is really good to discuss today!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u51	Hello, hello, hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u52	As always, not a solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u53	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create the conditions for the Minister to speak. Mr. André Ventura, if you don't mind, put on the mask and let Mr. Minister speak. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For now, I thank you for bringing this issue to Parliament. The honourable Member of the European Parliament likes to kick a little side by side, but I feel, in fact, comfortable and this is something that deserves to be discussed in all its dimensions. When he said he thought it was an "Aquiles heel", it was because we had not yet done the work with which we had committed ourselves. We did not do it because it is a public work and, in public work, when there is a problem in front of it, it tends to sharpen itself and has gone and is difficult to give the answer. at this moment, and at the other, of the other hearing, I undertook to give priority attention to this subject of the construction of this unit of transformation, because I thought I had to go forward. Please don't call this a "dispute" because debuggers we've already had on the Roof and they haven't been looking for. This leads me to the issue of zoning. It's just that the most detailed zone doesn't make sense right now. It doesn't make sense because we only have two areas: an area where you can't catch up, up from the Roof, and one where you can't have the activity of the sailors, because it's contaminated with heavy metals. The Tejo was, and it is, a fantastic estuary, where industries were installed behind industries for tens of years. This has actually resulted in a contamination with which it is difficult to deal. But let me say that the estuary has improved. It would be very bad that in the 21st century, with all the new policies related to the environment and with the Framework Maritime Strategy Directive, had not progressed. We're progressing! Today, we see the dolphins entering the estuary again. However, we have, in the area of Alcochete and upstream of the Vasco da Gama bridge, a problem that is not easily resolved. South, we have, but it's all in class C. From time to time, there's class B variation to class C, but that doesn't bring us any comfort, in order to create a zoning. The other question has to do with the species, which is called 'invasive species' or 'exotic species', which is the Japanese hazelnut. I have a personal position with regard to exotic species, or invasive species: when we can fight them and they are resources, we must integrate them into our regulations. We know that botany is all reversed, from a planetary point of view, and in marine environments some of these problems begin to appear. There are regulations that require special treatment, but I am convinced that we will also find the solution for the bivalve's plan of operation. I do not believe that it has been "swimming to the side" in this context. Never! It is a situation that worries me and is a very difficult situation to resolve, from a social point of view and from the people involved. Talk to me in 5000. I don't know if it'll be exaggerating. But let me say that there have been actions. For example, in May, under the coordination of the Directorate of Almada's Department of Investigation and Criminal Action, the GNR, with the support of Europol and Eurojust, developed operations aimed at disrupting a criminal network. There's a criminal network there that's hard to solve. They can't talk about catchers as workers. They don't have a hierarchical relationship of work. They do not, therefore, have something that is not comparable. They are indeed opportunities for life on which we must act, but with a control of fraud and crime, for people who have, in fact, social issues and social weakness. At all levels, we are acting in a situation that is very difficult to control. Now, if the President will allow me, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u55	Are you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u56	Yes, Madam President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u57	So you have the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his gratitude and his greeting to the agenda which has been made on this subject, which deserves debate. I would also like to welcome the different interventions that have been brought by different parties, which have underlined an idea that is, in fact, fundamental, the idea of the extreme complexity of this situation, which calls for different elements and which places different challenges to public entities, also complex, in their own intervention on these issues. These complex issues often lend themselves to populism, as Mr João Dias also mentioned. In fact, even for the reasons that are at stake and for the extreme fragility of some social and human aspects that are present there, we need to be careful not to transform the complexity of the situation into simplicity that we know some like to bring to these issues. However, he also supported the intervention of the Minister of the Sea and in a direct response to some of the Members. Members, in particular, to the Left Block, which brought an idea of inaction by public entities, I would like to reject this vision of inaction by public entities. We can argue that the action failed to solve the problem. I think that's visible. But I must reject, in particular, an idea of inaction in relation to working conditions, because in recent years there has been an intense link between the ACT and the different entities that, on the ground, have addressed this issue at different angles of the problem. This is the cornerstone of the action of the ACT and it must be so: an intense articulation with other entities, because, perhaps, none of the public entities alone—and in particular the ACT, for reasons I will explain—has any chance of success, or of diminishing, or of solving those situations, without acting together. In recent years there has been an intense articulation—which includes also the municipalities, in particular the Alcochete one— involving GNR, ASEE, SEF, Maritime Police and Civil Protection. Only this diversity of entities well reveals the type of different issues that are at stake. There have been, regularly, actions on the ground, inspection actions, also mobilizing these entities and, in the case of ACT, mobilizing the local units of Setúbal, Barreiro and Vila Franca de Xira, according to the area of intervention that has been chosen, with more than 10 inspectors, sometimes in each inspection, always in conjunction with other entities. But the truth is that we have faced significant obstacles in this inspection, because they are at stake there, as has already been widely mentioned in the debate, different sources of illegality, from the issue of licensing to the question of catching up in that area itself and the issue of marketing networks. They are, perhaps, criminal issues, which go far beyond labour issues. What I have to say is that the ACT has made, in these actions, the identification of hundreds of people who were, at that time, taking up shellfish in these areas and was unable to identify, because there are no people with discounts or any kind of employment relationship for that activity. It could be said: "Well, then, it is undeclared work and what needs to be done is to regularize situations. Do not keep on seeking. ” But there is a problem up to this, which is the fact that there are no companies there or economic activity constituted so that it can be said that there is a place of work and an employer to whom it is responsible. It is not possible to identify even a direct economic beneficiary of that activity. We therefore have people there who are, in fact, declaring themselves to take that step, but, from the point of view of work and the intervention of the Act alone, it is not possible to regulate those situations, because they are not subject to regularization within the framework of the Labour Code. That is why the Act — which is a guarantee I want to leave — will continue to work intensively with all entities, so as to identify people, to check their situations, whether or not they have discounts in other activities, so that they can continue to work on improving and resolving labour and social issues, in what is subject to regularization, from this point of view, when I think that the problem is far broader than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u59	As there are still 35 seconds of time left to the government, I ask if any of your members present wishes to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u60	Madam President, if you agree, I would speak in the next round.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u61	No closure?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u62	No, Madam President, next round.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u63	Of course. [[Pause.]] So let's move on to the second round. I ask the services to update intervention times in their respective tables. Mrs Joana Bento of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, a first word for the PSD Member who spoke: by considering that the action of the Government is of negligence and of inaction reveals — let me tell you — that you do not understand the complexity of this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u65	So you don't do anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u66	It is to deny a reality, it is to deny that concerted responses are needed and on the ground. I would also like to say to the honourable Member that his speech has only served for one single situation: to devalue the problems of people and those territories. But we are sure that in the coming days those populations will be able to distinguish invasive species. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what we hope will happen. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, looking at the environmental issue, reinforces the importance of an integrated approach with the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests. on this environmental issue, Mrs. Government members, we highlight Dispatch No 2625 / 2021, which updated the classification of mollusc production areas in mainland Portugal. And we remember that it was this office that classified an upstream area, the Vasco da Gama bridge, as totally forbidden, justified by the presence of high contaminants. Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries, I wonder how monitoring of water quality is being done, particularly in microbiological criteria, how often and how effective improvements in water quality can be considered. Finally, I question whether there are actions, and which, in a concerted way—because this problem has to be resolved with concerted responses and on the ground—are planned by the Ministry, in particular in terms of action plans advocated in Decree-Law No 92 / 2019. I also ask what is the important instrument of action envisaged, so that this problem has, in essence, a comprehensive and urgent response from the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u67	Mr Filipe Pacheco, also from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u68	Madam President, Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by strengthening once again the greeting to the ENP for the scheduling of this debate. during today's debate, we have realized that this reality is complex, involves questions of a different nature, public health, environmental, illegal work and also the need to create social and labor conditions that allow to solve this problem. But I wanted to leave two notes. The first note is that it is very important that it is not to be confused, as has already been done several times today, this problem of bivalve catching in the Tejo estuary with the situation of the Mira River Perimeter. It is only possible to solve this problem if we identify it well, and this confusion in no way contributes to its resolution. Recalling some things that have already been said by the government, focusing on the point of view of work, the truth is that, contrary to what is happening in Mira, there are no employers and a place of work here, it is not possible to detect employers who benefit from the activity and therefore the problem is quite complex. We know that ACT has been active since 2017, in an integrated approach with the SEF, with the GNR and with the authorities, but in view of the illegality associated with the activity, it has also been the criminal police that have best responded and made an effective fight against the exploitation that exists. The second note, and despite this debate being a current debate, is that the Socialist Party has not now agreed on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u69	He's always sleeping!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u70	We've been following this over time. Proof of this was the set of questions that the Socialist Party members elected by the Setúbal electoral circle made, last May, seeking information on the sectoral action of each government area and recalling the need for a cross-sectional intervention to this problem. Many of the responses given by the various Ministries respond to many of the concerns and to the various draft resolutions which the various parties have given on this subject, from the beginning of the need for the establishment of a unit for deposit, transformation and valuation of bivalves — not to speak in a debugger — which is being done and which is dependent on administrative matters, which is also included in the State budget for 2021, and the adoption of measures for the management of fishing and the adequacy of the number of licences allocated, something which is being done — moreover, the number of licences added to the number of applications does not exceed the available quota.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u71	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u72	Therefore, the problem is not just about licenses, and this solution that is advanced does not, of course, contribute to solving the problem. There has been a set of answers, there has not been any inaction and therefore the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognises the problem, but it believes that, in a complex matter, a very important way is being made by the Government for its resolution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u73	Mr Nuno Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u74	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Filipe Pacheco of the Socialist Party, be careful with the questions you ask, because the Minister of the Sea answers. He answers, and honestly answers that there is no action, there is only inaction. It's been said here!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u76	He asked 20 questions. Did you get any answers? Did you get information on initiatives? None of it! There's no action! [[PSD applause.]] Careful, Mr. Minister of the Sea is an honest minister, he answers! There's nothing done! I even discount any situation with regard to the Member of the Socialist Party, because he is in fact trying to defend the government. But worse were those who have been supporting the government and who now have to defend it, as is the case of the Left Block Member: speaking of the blackout? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputy, but what is the blackout? Oh, my God! You have an obsession with Rabbit Steps. It's to erase the memory of José Socrates... [[That's a laugh from Mr. BE Ricardo Vicente.]] The Ministers who are in this government were also in the Government of Socrates. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Member of the Left Block, you are completely forgotten! You have a problem with taking on your responsibilities, but, with all sincerity, the problem here is entirely related to a policy that has to do with this House. You, with your selective memory, are in an extreme position. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Any day, they've got a place here near the finish line! In fact, this Parliament is to be respected. The country does not only deal with one problem at a time, Mr. Deputies, it has the capacity to deal with more than one! [[PSD applause.]] But you are as selective as you are. They are, they are! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u77	Mr Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u78	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by welcoming the ENP for bringing this issue to debate. All topics are important and this is also an important issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u80	At the end of the first round of this debate, I like to see the PS take refuge in the complexity to say "we are not going to do anything; it is complex, it is not done". The difference between ruling and not taking responsibility is to make. Faced with difficulties, a plan is created and made. For years and years, years and years, they are not created is plans as an excuse to push forward and not to do, which is what has happened in this particular case. And no, the PSD has not agreed to the problem now; the PSD has already asked questions, has already presented draft resolutions, has also visited the site—beyond local Members, the Parliamentary Group has also visited the site. And let me tell you: it is supposed that you do not see a problem that is scandalous — I have to admit — in view of everyone. Mr Minister, with all honesty, it has to be said that the issue has to be treated as a crime issue or that those caught as workers cannot be treated is to have no idea of the social problem that is set up in those communities. [[PSD applause.]] It's not having any notions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u81	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u82	In fact, I have to confess to you that the PSD has a lot of difficulty in understanding how you think those rows of people, many of them without any protection, are invisible. I understand from the theory of invisibility of those who are the public figures, who are sometimes torn apart from reality on the ground, but it is difficult not to see hundreds of men — children, younger, less young — who are there, who come through that outer area, through that wall outside carrying the bags to the back. He just doesn't see who's never been there and doesn't care about the land.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u83	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u84	And don't look at those catchers like mere catchers of any kind in any area that isn't located. Mr. Minister, he accepted his words if he said to me: "But we have effective measures to put an end to the invading beehives in the river Tejo." It is that we have a holistic problem here, as it is now used to say, in which we either end the invaders or have a solution to the catch. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u85	And the solution goes through the construction of that power plant, by increasing the licenses, by doing regular analysis, by intervention with that population to ensure that there is public health, so that any of us, when eating a meijoa, are sure that you are not eating a contaminated ameijoa that may put the life of all of us at risk. And, moreover, those people who are there, totally unprotected, need to see the licenses revised to suit them, and this government has to find housing solutions. Not only this government, but also the parties that support it. There are already six approved budgets — we are almost in the seventh — and pretend they have arrived today in the world! And that's something from the other world that we can't believe! It's from the other world! For these parties, all that counts is the time we were intervening by the troika and what we didn't do. The rest is a seven-year blackout. Yes, because we're going into seven years of this government that destroys us and pretends that problems don't exist. So, what we really want to know is: will the government be with the PSD, to accompany our concerns in the sense of intervention that is integrated, social, migration, public health, to review the zones, to suit the licenses and the construction of such power plant? It is, Mr Minister, to say that it has been discovered that the ground was not the best is already an act of incompetence; it has not solved the problem immediately, looking for another ground, is an act of incompetence which continues over time and which is being maintained, and which, indeed, has already been used to us. One more question: Do Finance authorize you to spend money? It's because being in the Budget doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u87	I will finish, Madam President. It is we know that today, being in the Budget unfortunately does not mean anything; it budgets itself, but does not run. That's what they used to us for seven years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u89	Madam President, Mr Nuno Carvalho, it is true that the PSD has been approving the budgets that José Socrates supported until they thought it was time to leave or go to the pot. Therefore, I think that you have to calm down in your enthusiasm when you talk about José Socrates. And you must also calm your enthusiasm because I remind you where the gentleman sitting next to you...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u90	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u91	... and where it jumped; it was also — I remember — the PSD. But let's get back to what matters. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is indeed a strong indicator that members of the government in various areas are present in this debate. We are talking about problems of an economic activity associated with fisheries, we are talking about a problem of work and also of social solidarity, and of spatial planning. But what is equally relevant is that we speak of a housing issue in which this Ministry is rarely late — or never — called to intervene. This has already been the case in Odemira, it has been so in Beja and in almost all the Alentejo because of intensive agriculture and it is also in bivalves in the Tejo estuary. This is a cross-sectional and high-scale problem which has not been limited, which has not had sufficient supervision and which is allowed to occur freely. If it is not seen, it is not controlled; if it is seen, it is noticed; if it is not controlled, it is free to occur in the market. And what does the market do here? Warehouse workers in unworthy housing contexts, which we should, in fact, be ashamed of all. These abuses are known, exploitation and coercion as well. They are victims of intermediaries who pay low prices and lords who rent unhealthy places to live. We're talking about huts, parking garages, cattle warehouses, farms or other highly precarious accommodation. More or less temporary, more or less constant, these people live and work in Portugal between agriculture, the catch of bivalves, tourism or even in precarious places of restoration, in several areas of our country. Where is the identification and regularization of these situations? In the Recovery and Resilience Plan, and also in the discussions on intensive agriculture, the Government refers the response to these housing problems for urgent temporary housing. I would like the Government to clarify to me today how it wishes to respond to the 123 000 immigrants who identify in this Plan with only 2000 temporary accommodations. Does the Government not consider that these people who work here should have permanent housing in Portugal? Do you not think that the workers of agriculture, fisheries or even platforms, restoration, tourism, should have decent housing because they are seasonal workers in this economy that jumps exactly from seasonality, precariously precariously in our country? Mrs. Secretary of State, this is not a problem of temporary or urgent accommodation, this is a housing problem, a worthy response to those who work in our country. Everyone who works in our country! To hide more than 150 000 housing needs, which must have a public response in housing programs, and to place them in urgency and timeliness is irresponsible. How are these people not identified in the 2017 survey of IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana)? How do these people continue to be unable to participate in existing housing programs? How is it possible to allow the collection of exorbitant values by authentic tugurias? How has it not yet taken up the administrative possession of the spaces that respond to housing, without any condition to do so? Income is charged, and these spaces should not be used by these people. There's a lot you can do, Minister and Mr. State Secretaries. The rules and formulas are that they cannot be the same. And the housing really has—but it does! — to be a priority. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u92	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u93	Madam President, Minister, we have learned that, for the government and even for the PS bench, a debugger or see it! But we understand why. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In fact, there is no need for a debugger if we do not have areas B. If we don't have zones B, which are the only ones where bivalves can go to the debugger, why a debugger? Oh, my God! That is why we must have this problem solved, Minister. We need to identify in detail which areas B, which allow to be used in clearance, and to value this production. This answer is fundamental. For this reason, last week the CFP delivered a project for the valorisation and dignity of the conditions of the Tejo seafarers, which is in the field of expertise in the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea. Mr. Secretary of State Miguel Cabrita, is it possible to legalize and correct, or rather, regulate the conditions of workers? We have, sirs. Members, a decisive element in Portugal, which is Docapesca. We have to put this production in Docapesca! Docapesca is the guarantee of plant health quality of the product in the food chain. It is the guarantee of regulating the price of fish. in this case, if the seaman, if the bivalves enter the Docapesca — and we want them to return to the Docapesca — this can allow the situation of the workers to be regularized. It is possible to do so on this basis, Mr Secretary of State. I also want to say that the path is not the one of limitation, impediment and prohibition. The way is to solve the problems, particularly through licensing. I have already told you, Minister, that it is important to solve these problems. On the question of debugger, I should like to ask you, frankly, the following: Does the Minister understand that it is the IPMA who has the best conditions to build this debugger? So, Docapesca, what is your responsibility for infrastructure in national ports? Does it disregard the extraordinary conditions that it has to manage this infrastructure, with all the advantages that it would have to carry out this joint in terms of the treatment of these products? Mr Minister, on a very important subject, which is the port of Trafaria, of Trafaria, has the name and location. This is because the Tejo estuary, which serves one third, 30 % of the national population, does not have a single fishing port. And the port of Trafaria is the solution to meet the needs of high-value fish fishing. I speak of raven, talk of cation, fish for which it is important to have a port to download to supply the capital of the country and the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and not have to make the fish walk for another four hours, going to Sesimbra or Setúbal, with all the environmental impacts that this brings and harm the income of fishermen. Therefore, it is important that today we can reflect on whether the old 2012 project for the fishing port of Trafaria still serves or does not serve the current fishing conditions. We had more than 400 ships that left Pedrouços and were left without this protection. They were without a fishing port. We must look at the reality of local and coastal fishing and not for long-distance fishing. We do not want ports with large warehouses, we want ports that respond to national reality, to the reality of our fishing and fishing in the Tagus estuary, which is important to preserve and maintain.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u95	I conclude by saying that the CFP has put in the State budget a proposal for the transfer of a sum of EUR 500 thousand to review the project and start the construction of the port of Trafaria, which is decisive for the fishing activity in the Tagus. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u96	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, I believe that a wide range of problems has been identified by almost all the banks, from the economic and social dramas of many families to labour issues, environmental issues, public health issues, organized crime, but very few answers have been given by the Minister and by the honourable Members. State Secretaries. And we have not heard a single word from the government on environmental issues. As far as environmental issues are concerned, Mr Minister, the endemic ameijoa in the Tejo estuary is already in the process of almost extinction. A reality that will call into question all ecosystems in the Tagus estuary. On the Japanese ameijoa, the invasive species, which has called into question the environmental sustainability, marine resources and the preservation of ecosystems in the Tejo River, we have not heard a single word of what the government thinks or what the government strategy is to solve this environmental problem of preserving species. It is urgent to strengthen supervision, Minister. Very few resources are available to the Maritime Police. For a vast area, so significant, the means are really very, very scarce. from there the statements by the Captain of the Lisbon Port when he says that the situation is indeed uncontrollable. Question: what is the link between all competent authorities — Maritime Police, ACT, GNR, ASAE, SEF? A short time ago, we heard Mr. Secretary of State speaking in the SEF. How will the SEF, which has the most technical competence, more specific to deal with situations of organised crime and mafia, combat these situations if the government is in the process of dismantling the SEF, Mr Secretary of State? I also ask what is the articulation that has existed with the municipalities and with the frequencies of the affected areas. The municipality of Alcochete, Minister, has repeatedly alerted the authorities to the situation. But in spite of all the attempts, all the warnings that have been made, in the end, end up speaking alone, without any answer and without being able to do anything. What is required, Minister, is that there be a firm action by the Government with a view to solving the environmental problem, with a view to solving the social problem, with a view to solving the economic problem, and giving effective means to the authorities so that they can act. Every day, Mr Minister, thousands of people enter the parish of Alcochete and Samouco to develop an activity without any kind of control, without any type of security, without any kind of regulation. In conclusion, the Government is required to resolve the problem and to act by coordinating the various Ministries and the various Secretaries of State, since this problem affects several Ministries and various Secretaries of State. There has to be a concerted and firm action to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u99	Very little has been heard of the Government's response to the resolution of a wide range of problems that need to be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u100	Mr Nelson Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As it was clear throughout today's discussion, the activities resulting from the bivalve takeover in the Tejo estuary are covered with illegality from the beginning to the end. We learned that, by the way, as in Odemira, everyone knew about this situation. And, as in Odemira, actions to solve this problem « zero»! This area of the Tejo estuary is classified by the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere as a sanitary class C, which means that bivalves can only be used for transformation into industrial unit. We also know that these bivalves are contaminated with high E. coli indices that can cause diarrheal poisoning, outside the accumulated metals and toxic metalloids (such as zinc, lead, arsenic, mercury and nickel) present for decades of industrial exploitation on the margins of the estuary. A study by the Department of Biology of the University of Aveiro and the MARE (Centro de Ciências do Mar e do Ambiente) dedicated solely to the analysis of the contamination of the japonica amijoa do Tejo by metals and metalloids, found that the intake of these bivalves can constitute a serious risk to health. Despite the previous government, through the then Minister of the Sea Ana Paula Vitorino, announced the creation of the first deposit centre, transposition and enhancement of bivalves in the country, in the former central EDP, in Lavradio, to enable the marketing of the Tejo resources in conditions of health, nothing has been done. It goes on to say that « it is planned». Also in the State budget for 2021, the Government plans to transfer EUR 500 thousand to the IPMA « for interinstitutional cooperation, with a view to regularising the activity of bivalve catch in the Tejo estuary and valuing this resource from coastal communities ». It should be noted, however, that the problem is earlier. It is not only about adapting the bivalves for human consumption, but also about adapting the Tejo estuary and eradicating the pollution and contamination of its waters. Everything that's done that doesn't start around here is a mere palliative. Is there a structural plan for the recovery of species and habitats, as well as the eradication of pollution and contamination of estuary waters and sediments? What monitoring actions are being taken to effectively combat all abuses and exploitation of labour, housing conditions and environmental problems associated with bivalve catching on the Tejo? over the years, successive governments have been unable to solve the serious social, health and environmental problems of these activities. This government has been no exception. Until when? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u102	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group 'The Greens' has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u103	Madam President, it is nevertheless not Mr Ventura who defines the agendas of others, because otherwise this debate would not take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u104	For now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u105	But the honourable Member is. There's no cure! You have the opportunity to come here and talk about other important issues, but yesterday we discussed a matter of the greatest importance, which was also mentioned by the honourable Member, and you went up or didn't show up, no one has seen you! And now you're coming here to talk about shame? Oh, my God! Mr President, in all sincerity, I don't know what you're saying! [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] Mr Minister, it is true that the authorities have carried out several operations aimed at the illegal catching and marketing of bivalves in the Tejo estuary and we also know that, in this context, networks of traffic of ameijoa and collected evidence of criminal associations, tax fraud, money laundering and even human trafficking and aid to illegal immigration have been dismantled. However, the problems continue as bivalve catch and marketing continue to be unregulated by the government. In other words, there is no annual plan, with an integrated approach to resource management, which establishes the universe of licences to be allocated to the available resources and which regulates the entire marketing chain. This is the main problem that, by trawling, promotes the unsustainability of marine resources and ecosystems and perpetuates all situations of labour abuse, as well as the problem of the living conditions of many of these immigrant workers. Moreover, Mr Minister, in accordance with the law - he said - in the rostrum - the catch is prohibited at the sum of the Vasco da Gama bridge due to lead contamination, but, if there is no supervision, it is prohibited as much as not, because there are no guarantees that these bivalves are not caught, are not placed on the market and therefore do not reach the consumer table. On the other hand, at the end of the bridge, the law allows to catch, but requires industrial treatment to be placed on the market because it is located in a zone C. Now, if there is no supervision we don't know if the bivalves that are caught there, in zone C, pass by treatment or not. Mr Minister, the foundations are not allowing the construction of the infrastructure planned for the Barreiro. That's right, but now we're not going to look forever at the foundations! The Minister says that the work will move forward, but he does not tell us what is essential, that is, that the work will move forward in that month, on day x. He did not tell us when, but we hope that it will continue until the end of the debate. The government cannot look at this activity as if it were a smaller thing—for this it is enough to look at the problem—but it cannot even look as if we were faced with a kind of tax haven where the state does not enter, where supervision is at the door and where governments pretend that nothing has to do with it. It can't be! That is why, Minister, I leave you with two requests for clarification. The first is whether or not the government is going to step up supervision with a view to combating labour abuse and housing irregularities. The second is to understand whether the government will or will not move forward with a plan for the integrated management of the bivalve harvest in the Tejo estuary, with a view to regularizing the catch and its marketing, the recovery of species and habitats and finally to mitigating or eliminating the problem of contamination of waters and sediments in the Tejo estuary. Mr. Minister began by saying that the Roof today is less polluted. It is true, but this is not due either to the attitude or action of this government, nor to other previous ones, but above all to the fact that many pollutant industries have been shut down. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u106	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u107	Madam President, with regard to housing, can the Government explain only who will pay for this housing? Are we all or does the government have any plans for that? Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I wouldn't have thought of myself if I had never gone to votes in 46 years! [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] If I had such a small party, so small that I had never gone to votes and was always elected next to the PCP, I would also be here at 9 a.m., 10 a.m., 11 a.m., 20 p.m. and every hour. We have to go to the vote, sir! When you have the courage to vote, we have this debate and, of course, we will find ourselves. [[PCP and ENP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u108	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u109	I will finish, Madam President. Mr. PSD member, there is the selective memory of the Left Block and the Arrival, but there is also the memory that the PSD has to have what it is to do with opposition...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u110	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u111	If you remember that you have to oppose the socialist government and that you are opposed, maybe PSD polls are not as disastrous as they are today. [[PCP and ENP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u112	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions for us to continue our debate. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mr. Minister of the Sea, Ricardo Serrão Santos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have noticed that, in fact, what prevails here is sometimes a defeatist dramatism, in which they like to see the glass totally empty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not ask you to see the cup half full, but at least see the cup half empty, because it has been done work, it has been done work, we have paid attention to the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u114	It's full!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u115	Some don't even see the glass!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u116	Mr Nuno Carvalho, he sometimes leaves me in a somewhat ungrateful position. [[Laughing.]] The honourable Member says we haven't done anything! Don't! I have given evidence here and have brought figures on what has been done. Mr President, it is obvious that the Tejo problems are not solved with a government, it has to be with a set of governments and with an attitude that actually agrees with the new ways of looking at the environment. That's what we did. On the other issue, the money is not only in the Budget, we had commitments for spending on the money that was missing, and we hope to start the process next month. It's worth it, and I hope you won't charge me for this later. [[Mr José Luís Ferreira's laughs.]] This is the situation that we have on the agenda at this time. As this Government of the Socialist Party, it is very unfair to say that we are not concerned about the situation of immigration. We are deeply concerned! It is difficult to solve these situations of illegal catch because we do not have an employer and, when supervision comes at the side of the collectors, who are, at the end of the day, bivalve collectors, find people saying "no, that is for my consumption". In fact, it was the actions taken in coordination with Europol, Eurojust, GNR, and the Maritime Police that allowed some tops, because we do not want to get to the base, we want to get to the top. At the bases, immigrants and the people we want to give housing and quality of life. in this sense, even today, in the draft resolution approved by the Council of Ministers, the pilot project was established Integrating Valoriza, because this is not something a government does alone, it has to find bridges with the municipalities. This project, made up of 35 municipalities and the government, establishes that a network of municipalities develops policies of reception, integration of immigrant people, creating synergies in territories with a large number of immigrant people, residing or working in local economic activity of reference, dependent on foreign labour, and obviously also fishing. And it does not just apply here; these issues, in terms of immigrant workers that we have to integrate, are also identified in the north of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is to promote, in fact, family reunifications and the involvement of civil society, because this is not done alone. In fact, it is done with our municipalities and together. We have to take this forward very seriously, because this problem is obviously identified. Mr. João Dias, when I referred to the debugger and the industrial unit was to show that they are two distinct things. Obviously, there are already and there were debuggers, and some had to be disabled. We therefore need this unit, which is a research and industrial treatment unit. At present, we have, indeed, 300, but we have a load capacity of more than 300 catchers, collectors, seafarers who are not even completely filled. The rest is a problem that we want to solve, upstream, with measures such as integration of immigrants. I'd be done for now. Some questions have been asked here which Mr. Secretary of State will answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u117	Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, Forests and Planning of the Territory, João Catarino, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of Tejo pollution has been for years, it has been for decades, as we all know, and it is not an easy matter. But I believe that in recent years we have taken significant steps to improve it. In fact, the latest analyses are always better than the penultimate ones in recent years, and this is a sign that things are indeed evolving in the right way. There is also a work, which cannot be underestimated, done by basic sanitation systems throughout the Roof. All municipalities, all intermunicipal systems have been improving and making major investments in ETARs (residual water treatment stations). We have indeed in the estuary, in the region and in the neighbouring municipalities a problem that has much to do with investment; a part is already happening, also, obviously, of the proactivity of these municipalities, and another one that needs to be done. We now have a number of financial instruments where, of course, we can support ourselves. This problem has to do with the fact that many of these municipalities do not yet have a separate network, i.e., they have the rain net together with the sanitation network. Obviously, in the winter peaks and rainy peaks, it creates an additional problem in the STARs, which cannot solve the problem and which, after that, will eventually have an impact on the quality of estuary water. But I think that the important thing today is to point out that this is a joint work that has been done with the municipalities, with these treatment systems, and that it is, above all, a work that needs a lot of institutional solidarity, and I think it has existed. There is a labour problem that has already been discussed here today, that the country is facing and that the government is also, indeed, facing. We have to resolve, and we have a huge will to resolve. I am sure that we will be able to resolve it with this solidarity, also on your part, because, in essence, we understand that your proactiveness and how they have sought to find solutions with us can help us to solve this problem, which we have well defined and identified. We are, of course, not waving to the side; we are, indeed, willing to resolve and therefore I would also like to thank the ENP for bringing this issue to debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u119	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u120	Madam President, I would also like to thank the ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subjects that have led to this debate. I would like to say very quickly, in particular to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block, in response to questions of housing, which I do not naturally have to follow up on this protection. However, I would like to say that the honourable Member has brought another dimension of great complexity to these issues. But in terms of housing, I think you will agree that very significant steps have been taken in this area. Perhaps it will have been during the last few years that more steps have been taken in relation to housing. This does not mean that everything is resolved, as is evident, but I believe that there are several demonstrations of these advances that have existed: the different actions, the Recovery and Resilience Plan itself, which has an incomparable word to the one we have, in recent decades, for the issues of housing, the various instruments that have been launched. As for the issue of the right to housing, we do not distinguish nationalities, we do not even distinguish labour issues. The right to housing is a right and, therefore, I believe that this is a debate that needs to be held, also to penalise those who rent spaces that are not proper for housing and who do so. Therefore, this debate is open, I believe, and it will surely be aroused. Another area in which very significant steps have been taken is the regulation of immigrants. I give you the example of the social security figures that have been assigned to foreign citizens who greatly facilitate people's access to social protection and their identification. More than 100 000 people between 2020 and 2021 had access to a number of social security, which is a absolutely decisive step. ACT has been present at undeclared work. Just to quote numbers for the last two years, I take note of the following: 5500 visits in 2019, 7000 in 2020, more than 4000 infringements detected, penalty framework between 2 million and 5 million, 3 million euros in the last two years, more than 1000 regularized workers. I mean, in this particular case, we don't have jobs, we don't have registered employers, we don't have economic beneficiaries. It is a situation that has dimensions that are far beyond labour issues. Having said this, the ACT is and will be present in all the inspection actions for which it is requested, also in conjunction with entities of its own initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u121	The Secretary of State for Fisheries, Teresa Coelho, will still use the remaining time for the government. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u122	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. A protocol was concluded between the City Hall of Barreiro, the IPMA to APL ( Administration of Lisbon Port ) and the Docapesca with the aim of having an action plan for the Tejo estuary. The plan of action of the Tejo estuary essentially addresses two questions. The first is the zoning in the subareas of the production of bivalves in the Tejo, following technical-scientific studies. The zoning has been done and since 2020 two areas have been established : the Tex 1 estuary and the Tex 2 estuary. The IPMA carries out analyses every week and, so far, there is no analysis which consistently demonstrates the need for the creation of new areas or the modification of existing areas. We therefore believe that, until there are analyses that demonstrate that there is indeed a need for a new zone to be created, the zone is properly carried out. Regarding the Bivalor project, this project has several objectives. The first is to promote the regulation of bivalve capture activity in the Tejo estuary, minimize environmental impacts and raise awareness of bivalve capture and marketing sectors for issues related to their health. Bivalor is a unit of deposit, transformation and valuation of bivalves in the Tejo estuary, whose investment amounts to EUR 2.5 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u123	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u124	of these 2, 5 million euros, 1 million and 626 thousand euros are for the building and about 916 thousand euros are for equipment. As Mr Minister has already mentioned, this is a research project, but it is a bivalve transformation project, which implies cooking, because we have bivalves that are from class B zone, which are for debugging, and bivalves that are from class C zone, that are to transform, and when it is forbidden the catch cannot be caught. So, our goal is to improve quality...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u125	You really have to conclude, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u126	...and that they are all Class B area. But until we achieve this goal, we have this unit that allows the transformation of bivalves and their subsequent consumption. As regards the problem with the building, the undertaking, we have already passed, the IPMA has already carried out its best assessment and we are going to start the work next month, as Mr Minister has already mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u127	You must conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u128	So we have a deadline, and next month we are planning the start of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u129	You must conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u130	Very quickly, on the question of the Trade, we rehabilitated the lot and made an investment of EUR 245 thousand and currently the lot has veterinary control number. We're modernizing Portinho. EUR 500 000 has already been transferred by the Government to the Docapesca and to the modernisation of the Portinho, which aims to create floating structures for the docking of vessels, the installation of a crane for the aid of cargoes and discharges and the reorganization and modernisation of the ground infrastructures. In addition, the Government is developing a set of other initiatives in the Tejo estuary area, such as: the Barreiro sales post has already been opened in May ; we will inaugurate the Montijo sales post in July ; we are working on two sales posts in Alcochete. We therefore have a set of initiatives to improve all food safety issues in the Tejo estuary area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u131	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The time you spent the most will be discounted in the time when this debate is closed. Let us move on to the closing phase. I ask the services that update the times on electronic screens. You have the floor by the Government, Mr. Minister of the Sea, Ricardo Serra Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for Fisheries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to thank everyone for having participated in this debate and once again thank the Greens Ecological Party for bringing this issue to the debate. I am sure that now we are all more aware of the enormous challenges ahead. It seems more obvious to us that there is a commitment to finding solutions, but there are no steps of magic, this will not be solved only with the new unit of Bivalor. But let me reaffirm the interest and commitment of the Government of the Republic, in fact well explained by the Secretary of State for Fisheries, in the resolution of the problems which are very complex, which naturally exceed the borders of the Tejo estuary, and are being implemented along our coast and in the Tejo estuary. We want and we will work to improve the quality of the river Tejo, we will continue to work for it, and much has already been done. The quality of water, as said by Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, has increased by the commitment of all authorities and also by the investment of the municipalities themselves, but its improvement is not, in fact, complete and tends to worsen when there are rain problems. And he felt at this time of the COVID-19 pandemic. We know that there are still problems related to sanitation networks and solving them requires a concerted effort to improve the microbiological quality of the Tejo. And in terms of monitoring, let me tell you that in the IPMA we have an extremely competent entity. The certification and quality of the work done in the weekly analyses was recognized by SANTE, the Directorate-General for Food Safety and Health of the European Union, and will continue to work in this context. Alcochete, Samouco, Montijo, Barreiro and Trafaria are also places where Docapesca has invested to improve the conditions of all those who relate to the capture of living resources. And if we actually have the IPMA to lead the implementation of the Bivalor structure, it is also for administrative reasons and because for this infrastructure to be carried out it has to have a research component. But the connection between Docapesca and IPMA is always... [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] I can't figure it out... but then we talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u133	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u134	The relationship between IPMA and Docapesca is a brotherhood relationship and it is a relationship that develops to have, in fact, a valued and healthy fish. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u135	I now give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have brought to this current debate the theme of bivalves capture in the Tejo estuary, with the environmental, social, public health and labour issues that are inherent to it, and these are the fundamental reasons, as we have seen today, in this so rich debate, that it does not need to justify its relevance and modernity. Firstly, because we are talking about an important ecosystem where the disordered catch of bivalves has consequences for its biodiversity and requires urgent measures, and it is also an example for other estuary where this activity poses similar problems. Secondly, because there are aspects of public health and food safety, in addition to tax and production issues, which are also necessary to pay attention. Finally, because we are talking about a very significant community, which can exceed the 5,000 people involved in the seafood, who have no other alternative and depend on this activity to survive. Before I refer to each of these dimensions, let me refer to this larger dimension, the defense of the great riches of this metropolitan region: its river, the Tejo, inspiration of poets, ancient communication, source of wealth and food for millions of Portuguese, supplier of water and energy, which requires another attention from the Portuguese Government: Attention must be given to relations with Spain and to the renegotiation of the Albufeira agreements, which govern the management of the caudals, in particular by defending permanent minimum flows and not on an annual average; Attention to megaprojects in river bed, existing ones and those who still want to add, reaffirming the importance that rivers should run freely and develop their life cycle; Attention to the outbreaks of pollution and over-exploitation of the river, which continues to be seen by everyone; Attention to all this beautiful estuary and its immense potential. We are facing a serious environmental problem. The bivalve capture activity in the Tejo estuary, as we have already stated, with the intensity with which it is done, poses serious problems. On the one hand, the catch of Japanese ameijoa, an invasive species that adapted to the conditions of the Portuguese rivers, is necessary. But this has to be done in a regulated way so that it is sustainable and does not call into question the biodiversity and growth of other species, such as eel. On the other hand, it is a human action, in a highly sensitive area, which moves with ecosystems, introduces other sources of pollution and circulates heavy metals and toxic elements that are deposited in sludges. The defence of the conditions of this ecosystem is fundamental and, as we have said, it must be made up. But it requires firm concern and the establishment of clear rules for this activity. This is also, as we have said, a public health problem of an economic dimension. The memijoa sets all these pollutants and, if introduced into the market and into human food under these conditions, it will have serious repercussions on the health of consumers. However, the absence of a clearance structure, combined with illegality for these catchers to be pushed, gives rise to many of these risks. It is essential that seafarers have a place where they deliver the product of their work to be placed, some time later, on the market, under all conditions. And you can't see the delay in building this structure. Isn't the chosen land useful? Choose another one! Do the necessary studies. They have restored abandoned structures or buildings in the coastal areas. He can't stand this much inertia anymore. But it is also necessary to bring seafarers to legality on a regular basis so that they are not afraid of being engaged when they try to sell bivalves. In addition, it is a matter of losing thousands of euros in taxes by pushing this business into the illegal circuit, often going to Spain, then being imported to be consumed here — see. Finally, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we could not fail to mention the social dimension. In the thousands of workers who are estimated to be walking on bivalves, we have people who find no other solution, who have lost their jobs, who have no social, labor support and who depend on this to survive. But we also have many, many themselves, who came on purpose of distant stops, to deception, but always looking for a better life, with one objective: to kill hunger for you and for yours. Men and women we see from the Vasco da Gama bridge, who often risk their own lives for another hour of work, who live in indignant conditions and subject to the cruelest labour abuse. Immigrants in degrading conditions are not only in Odemira, they are here, under our eyes, very close to this Parliament. They all need answers, and the government has to give them. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u137	We have thus reached the end of our agenda. Mrs. Secretary of Table Maria da Luz Rosinha will make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u138	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 891 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 892 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 893 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 894 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 895 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 896 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 1370 / XIV / 2 have also been entered. a ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 1375 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 2. the Commission. I also inform the plenary who were present, by video conference, the Members. PSD Members Paulo Neves and Sara Madruga da Costa, elected by the electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and also the Sr. Deputies Pedro Cegonho, of the Socialist Party, João Cotrim Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, and João Pinho de Almeida, of the CDS-PP, because they find themselves in prophylactic isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-07-01.u139	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Before we say goodbye, I remember that tomorrow's plenary meeting begins at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: In the first point, elections will be held for several external bodies, including a representative of the PAN Parliamentary Group in the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, of two members to the Board for the Monitoring of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, of three members to the Board for the Monitoring of the Integrated Criminal Information System, of six members to the National Health Council and of one member to the Higher Council for National Defence ; of the second point is the assessment of the Bill No 13 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Tax Code on Added Value, approved by Decree-Law No 394 - B / 84 of 26 December — Exemption from the provision of services performed in the exercise of the veterinary profession of the payment of value added tax ( VAT ) of the Bill No 882 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Harmonises the VAT rate applicable to medical veterinary services and draft resolution No 1211 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Reduction of the VAT of medical veterinary acts; In the third point, the discussion of the Bill No 14 / XIV / 1 will be held. a ( ALRAM ) — Amends the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, and of Decree-Law No 413 / 98 of 31 December, in its current wording, which approved the Supplementary Scheme of the Tax and Customs Inspection Procedure—On the right of the Autonomous Regions to the tax revenue of IRC resulting from income in its territory; of the fourth point is the assessment of the Bill No 19 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — For the guarantee of the financing of local authorities of the Autonomous Regions — Tenth amendment to the financial regime of local authorities and intermunicipal entities, approved by Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current drafting; In the fifth point, the discussion of the Bill No 50 / XIV / 1 will be held. a ( ALRAM ) — Increase in deductions to the collection of expenditure on education and training by virtue of the COVID-19 pandemic — Amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November ; of the sixth point is the joint assessment of Lein's proposals 75 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — Including new psychoactive substances in the Drug Control Act and 101 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAA ) — Twenty-eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances; of the seventh point, without time for debate, is Bill No 102 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Includes new psychoactive substances in drug definition; Finally, at the eighth and final point, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I say goodbye to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I wish you a good rest of the day and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 14 minutes.]]
