ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the Authority, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the galleries to be opened. The agenda, required by the Left Block, is generally assessed by the Bill No. 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the legal and labor telework regime, ensuring greater protection of the worker (Tenth Nine Amendment to the Labour Code and First Amendment to Law No 98/2009 of 4 September 2009 regulating the scheme for the repair of occupational accidents and occupational diseases). The Left Block has opened, of course, the possibility for all parliamentary groups to present projects on the same subject, so they will be assessed together, in general, Law Projects Nos 765 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — regulates the work regime in telework, 535 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Consecrates the right of professional disconnection, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 790 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Guarantees the right of workers to professional disconnection, 791 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the rights of workers under telework, 797 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the right to disconnect, makes the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code; 806 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Change the labour code to regulate telework more fairly; 808 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Procedures for regulating telework; 811 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Regulates telework in the public and private sectors, creates the flexible working regime and strengthens the rights of workers working at a distance, by amending the Labour Code, the General Law on Public Works and the Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September, and 812 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the legal-laboration regime of telework ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code and first amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September 2009 regulating the system of repair of accidents at work and occupational diseases), together with the assessment of draft resolution No 1222 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad debate with the social partners with a view to the conclusion of a social agreement on matters relating to the future of work, in particular on telework and the work of digital nomads. Before we begin the agenda, to give information to the House, you have the floor of Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 813 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 815 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 816 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 817 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 819 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission, 820 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 821 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 822 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, and 823 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1232 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1233 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1234 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 1235 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1236 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1237 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1238 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 1239 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1240 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 4. the Commission, 1241 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1242 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1243 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1244 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1245 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 12. a and 13. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore get on the agenda, the fixing of which was, as I said, required by the Left Block. To submit Bill No. 745 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the legal and labor telework regime, ensuring greater protection of the worker (Tenth Nineth Amendment to the Labour Code and First Amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 of 4 September, which regulates the scheme for repairing accidents at work and occupational diseases), has the floor Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The presentation of this project of the Left Block on telework has already had the merit of making almost all parties also deliver their proposals to monitor the schedule of the Block. Our expectation is that today's debate is the starting point for a legislative process that changes the Labour Code and protects workers, ensuring rights, time regulation, compensation for expenses, capacity for collective organization, respect for privacy. The pandemic forced health emergency responses and an abrupt and improvised transition to telework, without mechanisms for preparation and collective bargaining and without full protection of workers. Telework has gone from a relatively residual reality to a massive expression, which has, in fact, revealed the ambivalence associated with it, as well as the consequences in various dimensions of life. The difficulties in the management of times were evident, with working hours being extended informally and with the multiplication of tasks performed after hours. The effects of telework were at the level of fatigue, anxiety, stress, family tension, particularly in the period when parents and mothers were forced — unjustly say! — accumulating telework with childcare. On the other hand, many companies have used telework to save costs, charging them to the workers. This period of compulsory telework during the health emergency was, for example, an increase of 15 % in the costs of energy families, also increasing the consumption of the Internet. Expenditure on the maintenance of workplaces, with equipment, electricity, water and internet connection has been transferred to workers without this corresponding to any kind of compensation. From this process it was evident that the regulation of telework that exists today in the law is fragile and does not adequately protect those who work. In defence of telework, its effects are invoked in reducing travel, in the possibilities that open a greater territorial and environmental balance or better use of time, but the risks associated with telework are also known: isolation, loss of moments of sharing with colleagues in the working environment, dilution of the borders between professional and family and personal life, lack of control of working time and violations of the privacy and privacy of the worker, moreover, it is clear from the transposition of the company's costs to workers or the disaggregation of forms of organisation and collective representation. All these risks are added to the differentiated effects, for example, in terms of gender and therefore the law needs to be changed. Telework does not mean time-free or permanent availability of the worker to meet the company's demands. Telework may not mean an income cut due to increased expenses or loss of supplements or allowances, such as food allowance. Telework does not mean that the worker's home becomes a dependence on the company, without the right of privacy or on the personal property of the teleworker placed at the disposal of the employer. Telework cannot be an excuse to pretend that accidents at work, just because they occur at home, are domestic accidents and therefore excluded from repair by occupational accident insurance. Telework does not mean that a committee of workers or a union can no longer contact workers who are not present in the company nor does it mean that they are no longer represented. It is also to clarify all this that needs to change the law. In the various initiatives that have been presented and which we have discussed, it is possible to identify an essential cleavage. On the one hand we have the projects, such as the Block, which argue that the law must enshrine rights and obligations, i.e. that it must be imperative, whether on the obligation to pay expenses, whether on equipment, or on the right of workers with minor children, for example. on the other hand, we have the PS and PSD projects that, instead of assigning obligations, define possibilities. In other words, they allow the principles set out in the law to be dependent on the employer's agreement, as is the case with the payment of expenses, or to be removed from collective conventions that may be made worse by, for example, safeguarding the worker's privacy. We fully disagree with this option because we believe that, precisely in these fundamental matters, the law must define rights and not state hypotheses which are subject to the best or worst will of the employer in an ever unequal negotiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u6	This does not mean being against collective bargaining, on the contrary. Collective contracting is not an alternative to legislative intervention, it is a complement to this intervention. We can and should promote collective bargaining on these matters, on these issues of telework, but none of this is incompatible with the creation of a legal framework defining the stages of this negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one thing is to discuss in collective bargaining how to realize a right, how to realize a specific compensation for expenditure, for example, another completely different thing is to discuss in collective bargaining if that right even exists. And that makes all the difference, it makes all the difference, when we're talking about legal regulation and how we write the law. A second cleavage in these projects has to do with the regulation of working time. It was the first convention of the International Labour Organisation ( ILO ) in 1919, which limited working time to 8 hours a day in the industry. Today, many workers and workers are connected to work much longer than that and, by making the provision of work like accompanying the worker where he is, the telework reinforced the wrong idea of a permanent connection, of slavery for hyperavailability to respond to employers' demands, even at rest time. Now, as the law says, rest time is a time of not working and, therefore, the right to "disconnect" already exists and does not need to be consecrated as a new thing, but rather to be exercised. In order for the right of workers to be exercised freely, the Block understands that the law must add to it an explicit obligation of the employer, that of not connecting during that rest period. That is, it should be explained and added to the law the employer's duty to refrain from contacting the worker outside the working time. In this respect, we would like to stress that the Socialist Party's proposal is extremely dangerous because, on the basis of an agreement on the right to 'disengage', it creates a separate concept of working time, that of contact time. Contact time? What do you mean? Oh, my God! The time a worker can be contacted is working time, it is his working time, unless, parallel to working time, if you want to create a unpaid availability time to be contacted differently from working time. Then we will be facing a very risky trap in which we must not embark. in other matters, even by virtue of the European directive of 2019 on the relationship between work and professional and family life, which Portugal will have to transpose until August 2022, we believe that there may be a common basis with various parties to go along and guarantee more rights for parents with minor children or for informal caregivers. The objective of the Bloc project and the legislative process we are launching today is this. It is not about encouraging telework or even assuming that it is the paradigm of the future. Yes, it is to discipline telework, assuming that after this experience of the pandemic there will be a minority but existing part of workers who may want to remain in this regime and who are responsible for labour law, the Labour Code — which only Parliament can change! — to protect those who work and reduce the risks arising from telework, clarifying concepts, giving greater protection and rights, defining mandatory rules and obligations, ensuring the maintenance of a relationship with colleagues and presence contacts, prohibiting privacy violations, repairing accidents, always from fundamental principles that frame the whole debate on telework in Portugal and Europe. The first is that he can exist only if he is willing, if the worker wants, and the second is that he must always be reversible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u7	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Carla Barros, PSD, and João Paulo Pedrosa, PS. How does Mr. José Moura Soeiro intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u8	Separately, to each of the Members. Members, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u9	All right, Mr. Deputies. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in this debate on telework, we begin by welcoming all the initiatives presented today. But we also want to make a special reference to all organizations, to all workers who, in time of pandemic, were forced to push! — to go home and earn your day-to-day from home, within your families, often in an adverse environment, with your children studying or working online and with the elderly to care for, because some of your day-to-day centers have been closed and your usual activities are suspended. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this climate of uncertainty, also came to the country with a certainty: the certainty that telework came to stay. The telework will and should be intensified according to the legal basis and in compliance with the legal basis that already exists in the Labour Code, although we all know and acknowledge today that some clarifications, some amendments and some legal basis are needed, for the realization of which the PSD has already publicly said it is available. However, neither can we shorten the path of social dialogue and collective bargaining here. We must leave room for these understandings to emerge from the dialogue between representatives of employers and workers. We must, for example, move in the following areas: in improving the concept of workplace, so that, in the event of an accident, the worker will not be unprotected under the coverage of insurance; in the privacy of the worker and also his own family; in the way he or she will be executed, either on the side of the worker, or on the side of employers, in the payment of expenses and in other topical and surgical aspects that we can do here, in Parliament. The question to the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro, is the following: is the Left Block available to accompany the PSD in these clarifications that we are proposing today? Is it available to derive from some ideological prejudices that have with social dialogue and collective bargaining, so that we can incorporate and value this understanding that can emerge from this social dialogue? Finally, Mr José Soeiro and the Left Block will also have another opportunity and another way to choose, but it will be a more difficult path, which may be the path of the Socialist Party. And why is this a more difficult way? Because we have the Socialist Party, Parliamentary Group, which defends a telework and a path to take in telework and then we have the Socialist Party, Government, which also defends one path, but another way to telework.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u12	Therefore, Mr President, the PSD path is very well-defined and well-designed. And, then, you will have a choice today in this debate, or tomorrow in the votes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u13	Mr Soeiro will now respond to Mrs Carla Barros and then respond together to Mrs Barros. Deputies João Paulo Pedrosa, of the PS, and Pedro Morais Soares, of the CDS-PP, who, according to information from the Bureau, enrolled himself even on top of the gong. You have the floor to answer, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u14	Mr President, Mrs Carla Barros, says the honourable Member that telework should be intensified. Finally, telework today reaches the proportions it has reached because there is a compulsory regime within the framework of health measures. This regime is disappearing, as we are in a phase of defination, so telework, by labour law, must be voluntary. So I believe that there is a part of the workers who have been pushed into telework and who will be able to choose. Therefore, I do not believe that, in quantitative terms, it will be intensified. On collective bargaining, I had already said, in my initial intervention, that it is linked with the law and complements the law, but it does not replace the law in the definition of minimum rights and standards. And in this we have a difference, because we believe that the law must define mandatory rights for workers and that collective bargaining, yes, certainly, is useful to clarify specificities, but the right to compensation cannot be referred to an individual agreement. We cannot say that we are going to discuss whether the worker has the right to compensation for increased expenditure, as follows: if there is a collective contract, he may be entitled, if there is no collective contract, he has no right — and this, knowing that, above all, there are many workers who are not covered by collective bargaining. On concrete issues you have put, with regard to the PSD bill, which basically has two articles...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u15	More, more!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u16	Yes, it has even more, but there are two fundamental issues that regulate, one of which is expenditure and the proposal which we completely disagree with. It is because the PSD proposal says that « criteria and amounts to be paid may be defined », but this in the contract of work or in a collective regulatory instrument. However, we fully agree that the law says that the definition of criteria and the payment of employees' own expenses may be included in the contract or may not be included in the contract — i.e. it may be or may not be — and, if they are not included in the contract, the worker is not entitled. We completely disagree about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u17	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u18	On the issue of accidents at work, we agree. I believe that in all parties there is a way to go, because we all recognise that clarification is needed. But we are concerned about the formulation of the PSD, because the PSD proposal says that the worker has to communicate in writing to the employer any workplace where it is different from the usual place of work. This duty of communication puts us a problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u19	Say what!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u20	... because we fear — quite frankly, I am raising an objection and we are making this debate — that to blame this burden on the worker to communicate raises the question of whether, having not communicated it, it ceases to be protected by this scheme of work accidents. We understand you don't. In other words, the accident at work is all the accident that occurs at the place where the worker is providing work or during the journey between his or her residence and work and we must ensure that this is the principle that prevails. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u21	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u22	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, a recent international study by the Economist tells us that 90% of the people who have been on telework will never want to be 100% in presence and that 50% of them want telework forever. I believe that it was also to meet these overwhelming expectations of workers who were in telework that all parties — and that is why we welcome all the initiatives proposed — wanted to go beyond the seven articles that are drawn up in the Labour Code. There are five subjects, which you also referred to here, which are at issue, and in our perspective is the Socialist Party's bill which best answers these five problems and the Socialist Party was the only one that has not forgotten the workers of the Public Administration. And what are the five essentials? They are: the right to disconnect; the right to privacy; the right, which is still strengthened, to health and safety at work; the extension of personal accident insurance, which even the proposal of the Left Block practically does not refer; the fundamental written agreement between the employer and the worker so that a telework agreement can be merged; and, finally, but not less important, because it has even led to a statement by Dr. Francisco Louçã on 23 April — and we know that Dr. Francisco Louçã is quite a compliment to the Socialist Party — the fact that the Socialist Party's proposal gives equal pay to the telework worker and to the face-to-face worker, which he believes was a great achievement and a great initiative of the Socialist Party. [[BE's laughs.]] Mr José Soeiro, possibly in all of the proposals, there is an element that has to do with the way in which the charges are calculated, where there is likely to be some difference. Mrs Catarina Martins said some time ago that the Left Block was a social-democrat party. Now, I will ask you a question so that you may have the opportunity to reiterate the principle of social democracy in the work processes as well. Modern social-democracy presupposes that collective bargaining, social consultation and agreement between the parties are the fundamental element to be established. I therefore ask whether Mr José Soeiro follows the principle of modern social democracy contained in the Socialist Party's proposal that these charges be calculated on the basis of collective bargaining and agreement between the parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u23	Finally, Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u24	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, five years ago, the CDS presented for the first time in this Chamber an initiative for the regulation of telework, repeating the following year, with an initiative that referred to the need to include new situations for the exercise of telework. Both at the first initiative and at the second initiative, the Left Block voted against. in this sense, my first word for the Left Block is: welcome to the debate! The second word is regret. I am sorry that it took five years for the Left Block and other left parties to recognize that it was very necessary to debate and legislate on telework. If we had been heard, many of the situations that occurred during the current pandemic could already be regulated. As we defend at the time, and we defend today, the amendment to legislation on telework is a serious matter, which should have been preceded by a serious and rigorous debate. We have verified that none of the social partners that make up the Standing Committee on Social Concertation sent contributions on the bill of the Left Block. This matter, which interferes with the highest standard of living of workers and with the life of companies, should, in the view of the CDS, be an auscultation target. Is the Left Block available to hear employers' representatives and workers' representatives?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u25	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u26	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, there was a public assessment, all bills have periods of public assessment, in which all these entities are obviously being heard. I would like to comment on what Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa of the Socialist Party said because, in the matter of work, it is not enough just to agree between the parties, because for this, enough-CL would-be civil law to us. The basis for labour law is precisely the need for a law which regulates what, in agreement between the parties, is not at least balanced. That is why we need a law of work which is imperative, which confers rights, because this tribute to the freedom of the parties to agree is basically a way of concealing the deep inequality of the relationship of forces between these parties that negotiate and, consequently, often legitimizing a contractual dictatorship of the strongest part.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u27	You have to read the classics of social democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u28	That is why we also need, in telework, to amend the Labour Code, to define mandatory and mandatory standards for those who work, whether in compensation for expenditure, whether in respect of working hours or in respect of equipment or matters such as accidents at work. It is interesting that the honourable Member has said that all parties recognise that we should not stay for the seven articles of the Labour Code, even being the Socialist Party for the seven articles of the Labour Code. And this for a simple reason: the Socialist Party succeeds in presenting a bill to regulate telework and does not interfere with the Labour Code, has no change to the Labour Code. You don't make any changes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u29	What about the praise of Louçã? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u30	The Socialist Party presents a bill that is a separate legislation, parallel to the Labour Code, complicated, tortuous, which will still create a big problem and an interpretive chaos. Why? Because several of the subjects set out here in this project, which is parallel legislation, outside the Labour Code, affect subjects that are also regulated in the Labour Code and the question of knowing, keeping the two, what will prevail. It is that the Socialist Party maintains, for example, the article of the Labour Code which refers precisely to the definition of expenditure for the agreement between the parties. Such agreement between the parties. Even in this parallel legislation which it proposes, and which, in fact, has many elements of wording, says Article 3 (2). o — Application of the scheme, which 'By collective labour convention, may be removed or amended schemes defined by this diploma...' and then the schemes defined by this diploma which may be removed are almost all. For example, what you say here about privacy, can be distanced, and can be distanced in a less favorable sense to the worker. As regards the right to disconnect, Mr President, the right to disconnect is not an imperative norm that is in this project at all. Can he be away? Repeat: can it be removed? And, on the termination agreement, the article on the duration and termination of the telework implementation agreement can also be removed. Therefore, what we really needed was not to make this liberal speech on the agreement between the parties but, rather, to be able to enter into the Labour Code mandatory standards that protect workers, of course, in compensation for expenditure, but not only. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u31	And Dr. Louçã's compliments? Oh, my God! Praise you!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u32	You have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members : I would like to begin by giving a greeting to the many thousands of workers who went out on the street 1. the May one, in the defense of his rights, against precariousness, against exploitation, for more and better wages, by the reduction of working hours, struggles that continue tremendously today. [[PEV MP José Luís Ferreira applauded.]] The current context fostered a wider use of telework, a fact that some intend to take advantage of an acrylic generalisation, promoting illusions about advantages for workers and omitting negative consequences, which, in fact, clearly highlighted, of a genuine tele-exploration, apparently more modern but clearly deeper. We remember that the work at home, on the piece, on the task, or even in vain of the ladder, has already existed in a generalized way, a form of exploitation that was overcome by the struggle of the workers, who remained behind but who it seems that there is someone who wants to recover using the new technologies. The use of new technologies is not at stake, but must be at the service of development and improvement of working and living conditions. What is at stake is the use by the capital, the patronage, to create illusions, to weaken the rights of workers. The numbness of telework and its promotion as a panacea for all evils is something that the PCP rejects, warning of the disastrous consequences, in the short or medium term, that the generalization of telework can mean for workers and their families. To whom does the extended use of this instrument serve? It serves the capital, which exacerbates exploitation, with increased labour, with greater pressure to extend the working period, for permanent availability by workers. Who actually wins—and accumulates—with all this? Employers, especially large companies, who reduce costs, which transfer costs of installations, water, electricity and communications to workers, as well as pressure on the use of worker's work tools to the service of the company. What is really intended for and what does capital want with this instrument? Make way to end workers' remuneration components, such as food allowance and other premiums and subsidies, either in the immediate or in the longer term. And if there were doubts about the objectives of the employer with the use of telework, they disappear well before the position assumed by the Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal, in the court of the food allowance, penosity or other compensatory components, which are rights won and acquired by the workers, which are an integral part of the monthly income that workers bring home and with which they organize their lives and that there are those who want to question, confirming the opportunisms and attacks on workers' rights, for which the CFP has been alerting and reporting. But there are more risks that cannot be ignored: the invasion of the privacy and privacy of workers' lives; the employer within the workers' home; the confusion between the workplace, the family and personal space. The workers' home is not an extension of the company nor can it be seen as such. The workers' home is their private space, their own and their family, and this cannot be brought into question. The deresponsibility of employers in relation to safety and health issues at work, the prevention of occupational accidents and occupational diseases and the rejection of their repair, in a framework in which the development and worsening of problems of the psychosocial forum resulting from isolation and loneliness, as well as the non-differentiation of the work environment and residence, is enhanced. The isolation of workers from each other and the resulting loss, denying the possibility of sharing experiences and knowledge that favor their professional and personal development, as well as the negative impacts on the clarification, unity, organization and struggle of workers. Greater risks of working on the part, on the part, on the most precarious task, on the loss of ties with the company. And even backward for women, sent back home after decades of struggle for their emancipation and so they could work out of the house. For the CFP, it is clear that teleworking workers must have the same rights and safety at work as other workers, as provided for in the Labour Code, and it is for the safeguarding of the rights of these workers that the CFP has to support this initiative. It is that a working relationship is not an equal relationship. It's not and it's never been! It is the worker who is the most fragile part, it is the worker who has to be protected, especially when there are those who intend to make definitive a transitional and temporary reality to impose telework permanently. The CFP presents proposals setting and guaranteeing the rights of workers covered by telework: a value of €11 per day of cost aid to compensate the worker for the costs added with communications, electricity, water, among others, rejecting that these responsibilities are transferred to the workers and that they are treated individually; If a worker in telework has a job in the company, rejecting the idea that the worker's home is a place or place of work, or any extension of the company, the worker may also, at any time, return to the job he has safeguarded in the company, thus ensuring the preservation of a temporary and transitional logic of work from home; That telework should not start before 8 o’clock in the morning or after 19 o’clock and that the worker’s working time should be scrupulously completed and any extraordinary working time should be required in writing and paid properly; That the working instruments relating to information and communication technologies, the economy and other necessary work equipment, including furniture, its installation and accommodation, and its maintenance, shall be the responsibility of the employer; That the worker has the power to reject the telework proposal when he considers that the conditions are not met for him to lend his activity with dignity, privacy and respect for safety and health conditions at work. It is also the right of trade union participation and workers' representative organisations. It is not the telework that will solve a set of work-oriented problems every day — exploitation, precariousness, low wages, intense working rhythms, pressures, time-disregulations or long working days — on the contrary, it can contribute to its deepening. It is not the telework that will solve the difficulties in monitoring children, because telework continues to be work and monitoring the child continues to be followed up, they are not conciliable dimensions, and the workers in telework have the same right as the other workers to accompany their children, as these children have the same right as the others to be accompanied by their parents. On all these matters, the CFP has intervened, including with proposals that strengthen the right to follow-up to children. Today, we are putting forward proposals for teleworking workers so that they will not be unprotected or deprived of their rights. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u34	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs PAN Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health crisis has undoubtedly accelerated a process with regard to the implementation of telework. If in 2018 there were at least 800 workers in telework in our country, today we know that no 3. last year's quarter was about 1 million workers already at home working away. in this case, I recall that the NAP has brought to this Assembly of the Republic a legislative agenda to alert this problem and that arising from the fact of this process, by being accelerated by the pandemic, to bring with it virtues, on the one hand, but also, of course, several problems of which we are aware today, on the other. This implementation that was imposed demonstrated the advantages of distance work, allowed activities that could, in particular, resort to telework to continue to work and that the country continued to produce in this dimension, but also brought many difficulties, many of which are associated with the social and regional asymmetries that still persist in our country. With regard, for example, to the potential of this modality, in addition to allowing, in fact, to continue to work, we have seen the reduction of pollution emissions, an environmental dimension which we cannot underestimate, due to the reduction of daily house-work and house-work trips, we have also seen to increase productivity and greater autonomy in the management of the working day that can bring the reconciliation of working life with family life. But unfortunately, not everything was a sea of roses. There is here a set of weaknesses to which we cannot turn our faces, from the ones that have been pointed out from the socio-economic and family context, which is different from the worker to the worker and which, indeed, has not allowed the exercise of functions remotely under the same conditions. On the other hand, there has not been the same access to working tools and technological means, and even the same ease of reconciling with family life itself, particularly with dependent children or even with their own ascendants, particularly for women who, as we well know, have been most affected by this crisis. It also adds what has already been mentioned here as regards the food allowance cut, although nothing in the law allows it, as regards the additional costs that have become a burden on workers, such as water or electricity, as regards insurance themselves, in which, even at home, does not make any sense that this is not considered a potential risk to the worker. There is also the risk of invasion of the worker's privacy, with greater invasion of private life, with tight video surveillance systems for workers, and even the increase of hours beyond the normal working period without the right to duly guarded remuneration, together, of what seems to us to be a growing phenomenon resulting from this pandemic, and to which labour is not alien, such as isolation, the difficulty of sharing information between workers, even of opportunities for training and vocational promotion. These problems, of course, require a change in labour law, which must be updated against these new phenomena and this new reality, giving them an urgent response. The NAP today brings here a number of initiatives that aim precisely to ensure this transition and currentity with regard to this mode of work. In fact, even before the health crisis, we had been the only party to present initiatives aimed at creating incentives for the implementation of telework and the extension of workers' rights, which were unfortunately rejected by this House. In the package of measures we are discussing here today, we would like to point out, from the outset, that it is important, in our view, the creation of a hybrid and flexible model of work, which combines telework with the present work, in this case, which combines work distance with work at least once a week to the workplace, thus maintaining not only social relations as well as work dynamics, which is essential to any team; the creation of daily allowances for the payment of costs added to work at a distance; the clarification of the rights of workers working at a distance to the allowance for meals and the repair of damage suffered by accidents at work; and the prevention of psychosocial risks associated with work at a distance, through, for example, the monitoring of the psychological well-being of the worker himself, with services of psychology, where necessary, to the worker. But in addition to these issues, there is another dimension that seems absolutely essential to us, which is the extension of the role of telework in reconciling professional life with family life, social inclusion and also the qualification of workers and territorial cohesion. Therefore, it seems important that workers with children under 3 years of age, with children under the age of cancer, or even with other chronic diseases, can help with this form of work. On the other hand, it is also important that workers recognized as non-principal informal caregivers who want to maintain the activity can use this modality, among other solutions and options that we choose to bring here to this House and that we believe that they make this mechanism more flexible, in some way, quite shared by the Labour Code and that they have to adapt to this reality. In addition, the NAP insists again on the right to family disconnection. It makes no sense that at this time, in the middle of the 21st century, being always connected, this culture that distances us from family, from time for leisure and time for ourselves, being a reality, has no longer supported in our legislation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, this discussion seems to us to be the beginning of a path that we all want to be able to ensure balance in the right and proper working relationship between the rights and interests of workers and employers and, therefore, we will be fully available to, in the specialty, start a debate and a discussion that is fundamental to making, above all, walking to strengthen one another's rights and thus to have a more just working society.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u36	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The stress caused by professional life is not a novelty for the generality of people. It is important, however, to ensure free time for the worker so that he can rest, enjoy the company of his family or friends. It creates the idea that what you are doing is very important when, in fact, it is something that can have serious impacts on the health of workers and that it is often empowered by employers, with calls and emails out of hours, with pressure to work out of working hours, not being seen with good workers' eyes that are not available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The importance of the work being carried out is not justification for abuse, which can lead to depression or burnout. The loss of physical barrier between work and home increased the challenge and in a year with all its particularities, in which telework shifted from exception to rule, it was possible to verify that this regime needs to be revised and improved. It is necessary to ensure that the worker has the right to an increase in remuneration for the increase in expenditure, it is also essential to strengthen the privacy of the worker and to find mechanisms to ensure the right to professional disconnection. I have already submitted a request for a discharge to the committee without a vote so that this debate can be deepened in the speciality.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u38	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : On May 5, 2016 — exactly 5 years ago — the CDS presented for the first time in this House an initiative to regulate telework. We had the view that it was necessary to regulate and debate telework long before our lives had been affected by the pandemic and the labour market having witnessed a change caused by the virus. If in 2016 and 2017 we believe it was appropriate to debate and regulate telework, time has made this debate and this regulation not only timely as necessary and essential. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what also distinguishes political parties is the anticipation of solutions and legislation to avoid problems and not to remedy them. It also distinguishes political parties the coherence of their ideas and proposals and in this field the CDS, also regarding telework, has demonstrated its line of coherence. We defend in 2015 and 2016 the need to regulate telework and to hold a debate on including new eligible situations for the telework exercise. After five years, we have maintained the same vision. We regret that the left has needed a pandemic crisis to follow us, but we do not fail to say: "Welcome." For this reason, we hope that the debate that this matter requires will be held in the field of expertise. Workers and entrepreneurs demand that political parties look to the need to regulate telework without the sectarian vision that any left likes to print in these debates, turning workers against entrepreneurs. Who creates jobs and who creates wealth are companies, private initiative, and in this sense we believe it is necessary to listen to all members of the Standing Committee on Social Affairs. Most of the bills that are being discussed today have not received any contributions from workers' representatives or employers' representatives. It is a situation that cannot be ignored. One cannot legislate in a matter with the relevance of telework without hearing exhaustively who represents the workers and who represents the employers. We therefore always argue that this debate should have begun in social consultation. Not only was the CDS the first party to present an initiative on telework, but we were also the first party to present an initiative on the right to disconnect. It is still curious that the left that today recognizes the need to establish in the law the right to disconnect was the very left that, in 2016, voted against. However, time has given us reason and we are increasingly convinced that this matter needs to be enshrined in law. In April 2020, a survey conducted by Eurofound ( European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions) showed that 37 % of the people employed started working at home because of the pandemic. In 2017 Eurostat estimated that only 5 % of the active population of the European Union worked regularly at home. The number of people who moved to telework reached more than half of the active population in Belgium, Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and reached 60 % in Finland. According to the official European Parliament page, "although telework has saved jobs and allowed many companies to survive the coronary virus crisis, it has also bridged the distinction between the personal forum and the professional and has forced many people to work outside the normal working time, thus improving the balance between working life and private life". In the above-mentioned Eurofound survey, 27 % of the interviewees working at home reported that they had worked in their free time to meet job requests. Before the current crisis, France, Belgium, Italy and Spain had already legislated on the risks related to constant connectivity and workers' right to disconnect in their free time. I repeat, before the crisis. In Portugal we are always behind the damage. As is shown on the official page of the European Parliament, the right to disconnect is not defined in the legislation of the European Union and Parliament wants to change that. On 21 January 2021, Parliament asked the Commission to present a law to enable workers to digitally turn off work during non-working hours without any consequences, and to lay down minimum standards for remote work. With technological development, today there is a set of instruments that enhance working capacity at a distance, through electronic devices. As such instruments, in itself, an opportunity for indisputable efficiency gains, the truth is that, when used in excess, they also pose a threat to the quality of life and the balance between work and the other components of the worker's life. Several studies account for the danger that represents the idea that today the worker must always be connected, that at any time he can and should respond to any impulse that comes to him in a message via e-mail. This reality points to the importance of preserving the worker's excesses, reinforcing the importance of rest, distance and rest, for the very balance of labor provision. Any worker must be entitled to be entitled to periods of the day on which he or she does not have to be available to the employer and in which he or she may use the time only for his or her personal good. Even in terms of physical and mental health, the fact that the worker can completely detach himself from the work obligations and consider as time for himself and for his leisure activities helps him to be healthier and to be more positive in his work activity. So and because we defend the good environment in the labour market and the quality of life of everyone, namely the reconciliation between personal, family and work life, we argue that the worker's right to disconnect should be explicitly enshrined in the Labour Code. This is therefore the intention of the CDS initiative, which we hope will be able to accept the agreement of the other parties. Finally, Mr President, if they had approved the CDS proposals five years ago, many of the difficulties would certainly be a solution and not a problem, as they are today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u40	It is the turn of Mr. José Luís Ferreira of the Greens. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conditions in which we have lived for more than a year, as a result of the pandemic and the measures taken to deal with it, have forced a sharp change in life habits, extended confinement periods and the application of telework in numerous cases. In fact, since 2003 labour legislation has provided for telework, but on a voluntary basis and by agreement between the parties. That is the assumption that the rules on this specific form of work should be guided. Today, telework is being discussed starting from a completely different assumption, which consists in its application as an obligation, for reasons of exception and public health, which, in fact, already shows potential negative consequences, identified by some psychologists, such as increased emotional instability, anxiety and stress. Thus, as far as telework is concerned, the current labour legislation does not give the answers that are imposed. With the flood of legislation created to try to respond to the public health problem caused by COVID-19, exceptional mechanisms were sought. However, it cannot be assumed that in the light of this legislation there can be a response to changes in the world of telework and it must be taken into account that, because of technological innovation and changes that are being forced by employers, we walk to transform what is an exception into normal. More: what is being verified is that there are limits to the dignity of the human person who are often being overcome by the telework regime, by employers, through remote and abusive control, of time deregulation and increased forms of pressure on workers. The control of the performance of the duties of the worker shall not be improperly carried out. The rules of the General Data Protection Regulation and the principle of non-invasion or entry into the personal life of the worker must be respected, respecting their working and non-working time, whether or not there are no strict hours. Where the activity justifies it, as is the case with the specific definition of working hours, the tracing should be done in writing and the worker should have unequivocal access to the record of his working hours. Today's telework is done, in most cases, at home. However, it does not have to be carried out at home, and it may be at the premises of the company, in public places, in spaces of third parties or even outdoors. In good rigour, what defines it is the form of communication with the organization. That is, it is the work done outside the establishment or production centre, directed by the organisation but without personal contact, by using information technologies for the reception and delivery of it. The technological and other means used in telework must be owned by the employer, and may still be from the worker, but the fact is that it may refuse the provision of telework for lack of means and conditions. The worker is therefore dependent on the organization's work instructions and has the right to use the digital tools of the organization, regardless of the workplace. Where this does not happen, it is up to the employer to bear the costs of the technological means, tools and materials necessary for work that are not provided by the company and to compensate for the costs of increasing energy consumption, income or other costs incurred by the worker through the provision of telework in areas where these consumptions are responsible for it. A 2017 study conducted by the Energy Agency concluded that Portuguese families spent about € 112 per month on home water and electricity. However, the telework scheme causes a stay at home at least 7 or 8 hours a day, i.e. more than doubles the working hours in housing, naturally increasing energy consumption to about twice as much. Of course, workers have to be compensated until, for what is happening is a reduction in costs, which, in the event of non-compensation, are unduly taken over by the worker. In summary, and in addition to all obligations arising from the law for the provision of telework, the Greens believe that there is a need to change the law in force, in order, in particular, to allow workers with children, or other dependents in charge up to 12 years, with disability or chronic illness, as well as caregivers, citizens with disabilities or chronic illness, or, still, student workers, to have the right to request, on their own initiative, the provision of work in telework. It is also necessary for the worker to ensure payment by the company of increased costs related to telework, such as electricity consumption, water, internet or telephone. We also propose that the worker have the prerogative to reject the telework proposal when he considers that the conditions for his activity are not met with dignity, privacy and respect for safety and health conditions at work. It is ensured that the worker does not see his working time deregulated and that his free time and right to work is ensured. Finally, we propose that the teleworking worker be assured that he is not charged with any disciplinary misconduct or reprisal in the event that there are failures with means of production, energy failures, the Internet or others other than his responsibility. These are, therefore, the Greens' proposals, whose aim is to bring more justice to telework and also to avoid the abuses that many employers are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u42	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the future, perhaps we look at 2020 as a turning point, such as the moment when many workers and many companies began to build a new model of work organization that was very possible, but until then marginal, the model of telework. It might be thought that the pandemic brought the need to regulate this form of employment, but I will tell you that it is not. All the great technological transitions in the past challenged the world of work and triggered the need for new answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u45	The digital transition is therefore no exception. It was in fact the digital transition that stressed the importance and need to legislate telework. The pandemic has only made this issue more urgent and inevitable. That is not why "the foam of the days" brings us here. The need to regulate telework was latent for a long time. On the other hand, it is recalled that the Socialist Party's electoral programme has already clearly highlighted this need. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The telework that many of us live during this period is no precedent valid for regulated telework as we see it: it was not by choice of the parties, as we stand for this initiative, but was imposed by the context, exceptional, to which COVID-19 forced us. The proposal that we bring today to plenary is not for the exception of the immediate one, it is for the future. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you about opportunities, risks, mutual agreement, collective bargaining and equal treatment when we talk about telework. Telework brings opportunities, opportunities for workers, employers and society. It brings opportunities for flexibility that can enable both parties to better reconcile professional life with personal and family life,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u47	... by the lower use of time travel between home and workplace, by the lower pollution that this implies, by decongesting urban centers, by the possibility of dispersion of the population and companies in low-density territories, by the ease of global access to the labour market, regardless of the location of the worker and the employer and by the possibility of leading to a qualitative change of work, enriching the content and meaning of work. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if telework involves the opportunity, it also brings risks. It brings risks such as the atomization and isolation of the worker, the difficulty in supervision by the employer, the dilution of the borders between the different spheres of life, the indefinition of working hours and demands out of hours, the dispersion of the workplace, disclosing the workers of the communities, the risk of this regime accentuates inequalities in the labour market, both socio-economic, and generational, or gender. For this reason, for the Socialist Party, the adaptation of the working relationship implies resilient labour relations capable of balancing the interests of companies and workers. It is therefore necessary to prevent the negative impacts of the future that has already reached, contributing to the stability of the labour market, ensuring that all workers have access to decent working conditions, regardless of their contractual situation. The Socialist Party's initiative seeks to mitigate the risks, enhance opportunities in a balanced way and stimulate the advantages for the employer and the worker. That is why for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, telework is only progressing by mutual agreement between the parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fundamental question is even to define how the fundamental human rights of workers are guaranteed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u48	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u49	... the functioning of the labour market and what is the role of public policies and collective bargaining in work. The Socialist Party respects, and will always respect, social consultation, but also respects, and will always respect, the legislative function of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group are therefore responsible for proposing a legislative initiative that meets this challenge.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u51	We do so in an efficient and balanced way, listening to and welcoming the suggestions of the social partners that we have been careful to listen to,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u52	Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u53	... but also listening to the recommendations of the Government and not ignoring the discussion that is being held at the centre of social consultation of the good launched Green Paper on the Future of Work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS knows what it stands for, knows what it believes in, and we believe deeply in the virtues of greater intervention by those working in decision-making processes, both at business and at economic level as a whole. And this can be read not today, but in the statement of principles to which we are bound in the Socialist Party. from there this initiative leaves a wide space, but — I emphasise « a wide space» — for collective bargaining to define sectorally the specific and precise conditions of telework. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the key ideas that defines this initiative is even balance and equal treatment. The PS proposal ensures that all workers in telework have the same rights and duties as workers in presence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS proposal ensures that all teleworking workers have the same rights and duties, whether public or private. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u54	The PS proposal ensures that all workers retain the remuneration and allowances they receive when they move from the face-to-face regime to that of telework. For example, those who receive food allowance continue to receive it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the same reason, our proposal guarantees that it is up to the employer to ensure the necessary tools for work. Moreover, the additional costs which the worker supports are clearly compensated by the employer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our proposal guarantees the right to privacy, sealing intrusive controls through digital means. Even more in the time when digital media enables unprecedented intrusion, it is imperative to defend without difficulty the fundamental right to privacy and image. Because we defend the teleworker and the worker on a face-to-face basis as equal, we guarantee the teleworker the same trade union rights, the same health and safety conditions at work. Without losing sight of the reconciliation of professional, personal and family life, we have established the right to disconnect, in order to guarantee the right to rest, the right to non-response by each of the parties, without any disadvantage there. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question we bring to you is easy: what will be the future? What future will we choose? The future of work will be what we want to do, and that future will dictate many facets of the future of our modern societies. We can choose to stick our heads in the sand and deny that the world turns and evolves, or choose to be builders of a decent society. The world of work will evolve as a result of decisions we have taken — by action or by inaction — at national or international level. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group chooses decent work in modern times, far from the ranks of people waiting for employment and the mechanical and repetitive gestures of the past. The main objective of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is to guarantee opportunities for women and men to have access to decent and productive work in conditions of freedom, equity and dignity. That is also how a decent society is built. Telework is one of the promises of digital transition and, like all technological changes in the past, will have the consequences that its social use dictates. It is therefore up to us as legislators to ensure that these consequences will represent a gain for all, especially for workers, because where the law does not regulate the strongest triumph, bad practices are crystallized. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as legislators, do everything to ensure that opportunities are made viable and that risks are minimized so that, in future, when we look at 2020 as a turning point, it is with satisfaction and not with regret for what has been done about us and the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u55	Mrs. Deputy, four Members have signed up. Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u56	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u57	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Therefore, in order to make the first request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u58	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, we have already said that today's debate is quite important and must serve, above all, to clarify concepts and give greater protection to workers and workers. It is precisely because we have this objective to confer more rights and protection that we continue to consider that the Socialist Party's proposal raises some doubts. And we think it is important that this debate responds to these questions, to these questions, to these criticisms. The PS has talked about the need for the mutual agreement already several times in interventions on this issue of telework. Already today, telework exists only if there is express will of the worker. Therefore, that is what exists, the previous question, even because the expression used in its intervention was « mutual agreement», is in the sense of whether the PS wants to change this logic or not. The second question relates to the fact that the PS proposal creates a parallel regime, not moving into the Labour Code, as we have already mentioned. The justifications for this are several, as we have also heard during their intervention, but we cannot fail to ask again why this option for the creation of a parallel regime. It seems to us that this option ends up not doing what is essential: it is necessary for the law to guarantee rights and responsibilities, minimum protection standards, which may not be ensured, precisely because we are talking about a parallel regime. With this option, not having this guarantee, we ask why this choice. In addition, there is a risk of further confusion in this area. In other words, what happens when a standard of this parallel regime does not meet the Labour Code or vice versa? How are these issues going to be resolved? Another question has to do with telework costs. In the option that the Left Block took, in its project, we are clear as to its imperative, because it is the only way — it seems to us — to have such a common, minimal footing that protects all workers in this right. on the contrary, the PS proposal opts for a solution that implies an agreement with the employer. In addition to not properly considering, from our point of view, the unequal relationship between worker and employer, we returned to the same mistake, i.e., leaves indefinite a central matter of telework. We ask why and whether or not the Socialist Party is available to change this solution. Another matter has to do with the creation of the new concept of contact time, separate from working time. We have already put this issue in our initial speech, because it seems to us a dangerous option, Mr President. Members and Members of Parliament, who may create an archdylous trap in which the employer is to be won, with an alleged unremunerated contact time. So, after all, the question is basic: what is the Socialist Party's justification for this proposal? It does not seem to us that there is any justification. We believe, in fact, that it must be totally removed from the picture by presenting a rather great danger.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u59	It'll be explained!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u60	Finally, Mrs Deputies, the PS proposal allows many of these rules to be removed by agreement, which will obviously remove their effectiveness. And I'm going back to the beginning of my question: without a minimum effectiveness level that is provided for in the law, there is no effective form of protection for teleworkers. And if we look only at the PS proposal and what has been referred to today in the various interventions we have made, we fear that this could even be the goal, i.e. make the idea that if you want to change and that if you want to regulate without, in practice, change anything or regulate anything, effectively in the law. On the other hand, in one of the last parts of her speech, she said that where the law does not rule, abuse can succeed, and that is true. So why do they not change the Labour Code, which is actually the law that regulates these situations? My last question is this: in view of the options taken in the PS proposal, what can teleworkers, workers and workers expect from the PS and what results can they even expect from this discussion? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u61	Mr Lina Lopes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u62	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, I have listened very carefully to the presentation you made of the Socialist Party bill and I will leave you with a reflection and two questions. I think we all agree on two things. First of all, we are experiencing an exceptional situation. The pandemic has altered our way of living day by day, how we relate and how we work. But this situation, as I said, is exceptional. The pandemic didn't come to stay. Vaccination will beat this virus and normalize the daily. Secondly, we do not yet know what follows. There are already companies saying that they will not return to presence work, but this will be, once again, something exceptional. The truth is we don't know what work will be like after the pandemic. I think we all agree with these two facts: the exceptionality of the present and the uncertainty of tomorrow. But we all also agree that the debate on telework is crucial and unacceptable. We all feel that remote work and telework have come to stay, but, I emphasise, we still don't know what you're in. There are many workers and companies who want to leave the present work, others eagerly cry out for their return. Some workers benefited from the reduction of expenditure, others, on the contrary, remained in critical situations. In the face of these unknowns, the Socialist Party decides to add even more uncertainty, more entropy to labour relations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u63	Madam Member, there are people who sit in two chairs at the same time to hide their positions. The PS has managed to sit in three: in Parliament, either to legislate on telework; in social consultation, the Socialist Party's Government is still debating this matter with the employers' and trade unions' confederations and, at the same time, giving itself to prolonged reflections on the same subject in a green book still under discussion. thus, it conditions the nature of a weighted and mature legislation, conditions the collective bargaining and the social partners and conditions the very meaning of the Green Paper on the Future of Work. It seems to us, Mrs. Member, that the house was started on the roof. I therefore appeal to the Socialist Party of the three chairs which, once and for all, are moderate, respect the social partners and study and debate, at the centre of social dialogue, the measures appropriate to the regulation of telework. That is what the Social Democratic Party did before proposing surgical measures in its bill: it heard the social partners and only then proposed the surgical changes to the Labour Code. He did not do as the Socialist Party, which first presents a bill, outside the Labour Code, and two days before this debate—stop! — you will be listening to the social partners, just to meet the timetable. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u64	It was Monday, as you know! [[PS protests.]] It's hurting, isn't it? Oh, my God! Yes, he is! I shall finish, Mrs Deputy, with two questions: does it not seem hasty to move forward with a minor legislation, outside the Labour Code, on top of the event, without leaving a maturation time, without knowing exactly what telework workers and employers want? Do you not think that this subject should be further, in the context of social consultation, listening to the first interested people on the subject of telework, rather than being conditional on harsh and hasty legislation? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u65	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a very specific question, because in fact we have heard the honourable Member say that, in relation to telework, there should only be agreement between the employer and the worker and, however, it seems to us that there is a PS at two pace, the PS of the Assembly and the PS of the Government, which, in the Green Paper on the Future of Work, and telework, advocates enlargement, for example, to workers with chronic illness or disability, which is also proposed on the initiative of the NAP. And the question is whether the PS is going to follow this initiative or not, on the one hand, the government itself's ambition and, on the other hand, a measure of greater social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u67	Mr Pedro Morais Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u68	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, as I said to the Left Block, the Socialist Party, five and four years ago, voted against the CDS proposals. On the initiative and position of the Socialist Party, it seems to us that it is not correctly shaping the situation of telework. The option cannot be between presence work or telework, the option must be, yes, that of the worker and the employer to find partial forms of work, either with two days at home and three days at the company or two days at the company and three days at home. In fact, there must be flexibility in order to allow distance work and not create a distance between companies and the worker. This is not compatible with strict rules, such as that the employer can only call the employee to the company 48 hours in advance. This is not knowing the world of work, it is not knowing the world of companies and not relying on the ability and common sense of the parties. from there ask directly whether the Socialist Party is available to amend rules like these.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u69	You have the floor to answer the requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions that have been put to us and would like to begin by clarifying the following: there are not several PSs, there is a PS, which by chance won the elections,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...which, by chance, is on the bench of the government and this bench and which works together. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, choose the argument! You have to choose the argument! What is under discussion in social consultation and that in no way dazzles the discussion we are doing here today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u71	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u72	...is the Green Paper on the Future of Labour Relations, which, among many subjects, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the matter of telework. The second note I would like to leave is for those who, when it comes to doing so, feel that the social partners are absolutely necessary and that, when they fail to do so, they feel that the social partners are not needed...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u73	It's not us, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u74	But there is one thing I say to you: for the Socialist Party, social dialogue, social dialogue is always to respect! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this parliamentary group announced in January 2020 that it was going to legislate on telework. The pandemic still did not have the effects it had, yet the telework was not compulsory and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in fact doing faith and justice to its electoral programme, had already said that it would legislate on the telework. That is why we agree with the government. In fact, we support this deep reflection that is being made in social consultation, and I am sure that we will hear from the honourable Members. State Secretaries who agree with the proposals presented here. No one is competing with anyone, it is just a PS and, fortunately, we are ruling to give the same rights and equal treatment to workers and opportunities so that companies can modernise themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u76	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to leave a second note on behalf of the Socialist Party's bench: do not expect telework legislation to serve to raise trenches among all of us, because no one will hear me say that any of the initiatives on the table is tortuous, pernicious. Don't! It is the vision of the parties, with which I can even disagree, that is the vision that each one has of the world of work. But in democracy, there is only one way to address this: here, in the plenary, in a frank debate on our proposals, and in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u77	That is why there are proposals and debates!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u78	Mrs Isabel Pires asks why we make the extravagant law and do not put quick thoughts on the seven articles of the Labour Code. I don't understand the strangeness! There is the law of accidents at work, there is the law of special contracts, there is the law of safety and health at work... Has this ever weakened any rule that is in the Labour Code? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Calm down, this also needs serenity! What's going on here, Mr. Members, it is to regulate what already exists in the Labour Code and the new realities that this exceptional time has brought us, always ensuring what I do not see in many projects: that there is equal treatment, ensuring that there is a concern about safety and health at work, that there is a concern about working conditions, that there is a genuine concern about the privacy and the prohibition of the worker being cared for during the hours of his rest period, as stipulated in Article 18. the and also in Article 4. that of our diploma—just read. As far as expenditure is concerned, there is one thing that divides us: this bench does not think that just by going home, by telework, the company has to bear all the costs of the worker. This must be the subject of agreement and it must be proved what the increase in expenditure is. Therefore, we do not say that it is necessary to specify already 10 € or 9 €, we say that we need to find rationality for this. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u79	Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, we agreed that we had a long time to disagree on labour law. It's absolutely normal. The PS did not follow the amendments to the Labour Code in 2003, it did not follow the proposals presented by the CDS five years ago because we have, in fact, very different views than the world of work and what must be a balanced relationship. Finally, Mrs Lina Lopes, I would like to speak to you on a last question: this is not a bad law, as I have already had the opportunity to explain, and above all...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u80	It's complementary!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u81	But do you know what a complementary or extravagant standard is? You want me to explain? I did not want to explain here, but, if necessary, I explain what is an extravagant standard of the Labour Code, which in no way illustrates what is in the Labour Code. The certainty of this bench is just one and only one. In modern times, there are two options: either we bury the head in the sand and we continue to think that the world of work has not changed and that the rules have to be all as in the first Industrial Revolution, in the second, in the third, or we realize that we are in the fourth industrial, technological revolution, and that we must follow the modern times, always guaranteeing the rights of workers and the rights of employers. That is the only way to build a balanced and decent society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u82	I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and all other present, journalists and officials. As we continue with our agenda, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Roque, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Depending on the pandemic situation, the year 2020 brought unprecedented changes to the world economy and to the world of work. The measures of confinement have forced much of the active population to remain at home, but to continue to work remotely in the sectors where possible, giving rise to the most comprehensive experience of telework ever. It is important to see the post-pandamy reality, which, in terms of telework, will not be equal to what existed before, but which must also be different from the present, in which telework was generalized as possible, removing a basic principle from the provisions of the Labour Code, i.e. the agreement between the parties in the contractual form. It is therefore important that the Labour Code can be revisited, taking into account the reasonable perspective of the growth of a work reality that was residual before this public health situation. The PSD believes that labour legislation should be balanced and stable. They must be the partners in the Standing Committee on Social Consultation and in the first instance discuss this issue and, hopefully, reach a tripartite compromise, which can be put on a bill by the Government. [[PSD applause.]] Parliament must then exercise its legislative function, with the guiding principle of respect for balance, obtained in a tripartite manner. It is in this sense that we are presenting a draft resolution, recommending the promotion of a broad debate with the social partners, with a view to concluding an agreement on matters relating to the future of work. However, the PSD understands the immediate need for some clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u85	Therefore, it also presents a minimalist bill after listening to all social partners. [[PSD applause.]] We propose specific but necessary amendments to the legislative framework in order to clarify and density some weaknesses which have made sense in the application of the telework regime. However, it does not cease to be curious what we have checked on the part of some other parties. By the Left Block and the PCP, we admit that, ideologically coherently, we have bills that profoundly debalance the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u86	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u87	No wonder. They are parties that have a conflicting view of labour relations and thus devalue the convergences achieved in social consultation. from the PS, we note the principle, so dear to Deng Xiaoping, of « one party, two systems. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] On the one hand, there is its version « parliamentary group », which presents a dense bill that amends the Labour Code in the form of a new legal regime, extravagant legislation. On the other hand, there is the «Ps governant », which asks for the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which presents it in social dialogue to the partners and which, with them, initiates a debate which, precisely in the face of the initiative of its parliamentary group, becomes inconsequential and devaluer of the relevant role of social dialogue. We are clearly in favour of increasing post-pandemic telework. Despite some less positive aspects, the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages for workers, businesses and even the environment itself, such as avoiding times of day-to-day pendulum displacement, greater balance between professional, personal and family life, flexibility of hours or the possibility of working from an alternative location. from there we reiterate the appeal to the Government — and we welcome its presence in this debate: social dialogue is the institutional stage for reconciling interests between companies and workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u89	The obligation of the Government, as one of the vertices of tripartism, is to promote dialogue, to obtain an agreement on matters relating to the future of work... [[PSD applause.]] ...and its translation into a proposal for a law, so that Parliament amends the Labour Code, maintaining its balance and stability. The government is still in time to do this. These are the conditions sine qualon so that all the labourers know the rules and thus promote the conditions leading to an ever-desirable social peace. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u90	Mr Fernando José of the PS Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarification from Mr Pedro Roque. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by welcoming all the initiatives that have brought us around the subject of telework. It is consensual that the provisions of the Labour Code on telework show that several essential issues are now the discovery of any regulation. In fact, at the time it was drawn up, the reality of telework in Portugal was practically marginal and very little known. As always, these forecast gaps, which cannot be filled by analogy or extension of standards relating to the typical employment contract, offer spaces open to the unilateral determination of employers. The recent experience of compulsory telework in the context of pandemic confirms this illusion. We must therefore legislate for the future rather than with the analysis taken up in the challenges of the current context. We must densify labour legislation on telework, but leave ample room for collective bargaining. However, from the draft law of the PSD Parliamentary Group, we have withdrawn the claim that, in the absence of provision, the Internet and communications service is presumed to be from the worker, it is presumed to be clear. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The increase in costs for telework for the work contract or in a collective working regulation instrument may be set out criteria and amounts to be paid, in particular by means of a certain monetary value to be delivered to the worker under a telework scheme. In essence, it does not take a position on the part to which expenditure should be borne, only by adding the possibility of payment of expenditure to be made by paying a certain amount of money — it should also be clarified. On the other hand, in the possibility of monitoring work, with a visit to the home of the worker in telework, we concluded by using indeterminate concepts in paragraphs 1 and 2. We also disagree on the proposal for a change to point 3, since labour legislation already provides that visits can only have the objective of monitoring work, and only in the period between 9 and 19 hours. The current solution is preferable to the PSD proposal, which states that visits must take place during the normal working period. In conclusion, we all agree on the need to regulate a matter which will enhance the reconciliation between family and professional life. We will now have to find a consensus, with the involvement of the social partners, so that we can find the best answers to this path that challenges us all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u92	In reply, Mr Pedro Roque of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u93	Madam President, I begin by greeting Mr Fernando José and by thanking him for the questions put. There are steps in this speech I agree with at all, particularly when it talks about legislation for the future. It is a question of legislating for the future, since the regime that has been in force is that of forced telework, depending on the circumstances, which is absolutely understandable, because physical contacts have to be avoided, both at home and at work, as well as at work. Therefore, in the sectors where this was possible, it is understandable. It was something we all agreed with and we understood that what is in the Labour Code, which is the agreement between the parties, would no longer make sense here. But it is about legislating for the future, because we all realize that post-pandamy reality, in terms of telework, will necessarily be different from what was before. Workers and entrepreneurs have seen virtues in telework, which is something positive, and it is important to legislate about it. With regard to the space for collective bargaining, we understand that, in addition to the Labour Code, there is a wide space for collective bargaining in the field of telework. This can also serve to boost the collective bargaining itself, because each sector has specificities in a set of subjects, and also in these matters related to the Labour Code. However, when you come to talk about the partners, I must say that I believe that the Socialist Party has done something that is not social consultation. That is, drawing a bill and, later on, calling on the social partners to ask them, let us say, an appreciation of a bill that is already made is all less social consultation. Social consultation is absolutely institutional, which reflects the way in which the International Labour Organization, the oldest United Nations body, founded in 1919, operates, and which is tripartite between government, trade union partners and business partners. What you have done is, therefore, far from being social consultation. It is up to the Government to dynamize social dialogue, promote understanding, reflect such understandings—because they are balanced, give stability to labour legislation and guarantee social peace, always desirable—to make them a bill and present the bill to Parliament. So Parliament, respecting, or seeking to respect, the balance created in social consultation, legislation. What they did, as has already been said, was "starting the house by the roof". Well, that's not a correct process. It doesn't mean there are no virtues in all bills. We recognize that there are, but in fact, it would have been preferable the normal path, the one that chaired the Labour Code initially, the revisions of the Labour Code, and the one that is always the way followed by all governments, regardless of who is in front of it. I reiterate that the Government can still, in social consultation, get this understanding, present a bill and join this bill to debate in the specialty that will be done together with these bills, in order to have a telework law that reflects reality and is useful for workers, entrepreneurs and the national economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u94	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Telework opens up many opportunities. Workers can exercise their professions with more autonomy. Companies can become more productive. The times and environmental impacts of travel to work will be reduced. New forms of collaborative work will be stimulated and even national or foreign citizens will be able to work remotely from Portugal. All these opportunities exist and can increase the quality of life of many Portuguese while stimulating the economy. It is up to this Parliament to ensure that these opportunities are provided to those who freely want to make use of them. It should be remembered that collective bargaining and social consultation are legitimate sources of labour law. This is why we are so disturbed by the devaluation of collective bargaining that emerges from the various proposals under discussion here. It does not make sense that this House imposes a single framework for telework, that all companies, all sectors and all regions of the country would be obliged to follow. Certainly, companies, workers and their legitimate representatives will be much more prepared to decide how best to adapt telework to their needs. The current Labour Code has more than 560 articles and has already changed 18 since 2009. It is time to contain the regulatory push and respect the will of the parties and the social partners. Only then can the opportunities opened up by telework and also avoid their pitfalls and injustices be taken advantage of.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u96	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u97	I shall conclude, Madam President. Only a controlling State, which does not trust, nor in the ability of the social partners to reach good agreements, nor in the expression of the free will of people, does it have this desire to regulate everything and to suffocate everything. Let the country breathe. Let the country telework.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u98	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita has the floor. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the day when different legislative proposals on telework and related matters are discussed, on the initiative of various parties and Members, I would, of course, like to welcome the proposals, express the government's position on a number of matters in which they have been drawn up and today brought to plenary, and also to express our concerns about this debate, parliamentary debate, but above all, a debate that goes through the entire Portuguese society and in which dimensions of great sensitivity are played for workers and businesses. Allow me, therefore, to leave some notes here. Firstly, and as has already been said, this debate takes place at a very particular time. Telework has experienced unprecedented expansion over the past year. Ten years ago, only about 5 % of people in Portugal had had any experience of working with some regularity outside the workplace, from home, and in 2019, before the pandemic, that percentage had risen to just over 14 % of people who had ever had that experience. On the contrary, in the second quarter of 2020, in the middle of the pandemic, the proportion of workers who have always or almost always worked at home exceeded 23 %, more than one million people, and in some regions such as Lisbon even exceeded 35 %. But we know, as we have already said, that this expansion took place in a framework of absolute exceptionality, the pandemic, which, of course, gave rise to a legal framework which is all exceptional, due to the need already recognised by various parties, to act in the framework of public health. This picture broke with the basic principle of the agreement between employer and worker, made telework, at different times, or exempted from agreement or even mandatory, as happened in the last confinement, and we also know that it was operationalized with the urgency required by the circumstances. Therefore, in this public health framework, in which there were confinement periods, closed sectors, closed schools, a framework that motivated many companies and workers to opt transiently for telework, total or partial, for self-protection and for others, the expression that telework has gained has two characteristics that at the moment should make us have the greatest caution when discussing the topic, particularly for legislative purposes. The first feature is that, yes, telework has been experienced by an unprecedented number of workers and companies and that this expansion of experience has sharpened our collective and individual awareness of the potential and risks of telework. But there is a second feature: this experience and consciousness did not occur in a frame of normality, not even rebuttable. On the contrary, they included people and companies who would never have opted for telework if they had this possibility or if circumstances were different. Therefore, last year's experience tends to emphasize the difficulties and risks of telework. Thus, from the Government's perspective, the experience of telework this past year, having occurred in such difficult, urgent circumstances as to be so different from normal and outside the usual framework of volunteering and agreement, cannot correspond to the assessment that we make of telework in general and for the future, which is what we are trying to do in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore essential to bear in mind — and above all at present — that telework in pandemics has not been and is not telework. On the contrary, it was a pandemic that forced that there was telework in situations where, perhaps, it was not imagined, anticipated, desired by one or neither of the parties. But it was necessary. This is a fundamental difference that advises—it really advises! — caution, balance and an in-depth reflection on each of the issues on the table, so that telework, its potential and risks are not confused with the pandemic and its effects. And it is this ability to discern between what is the result of telework or the result of the pandemic that is absolutely essential in a framework of enormous demands for companies and workers. It would always be a huge challenge in such a debate, but I am sure that, at the time it is blocked, there will be capacity to discern these two realities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Member States, Portugal was one of the first countries to have a framework for regulating telework, which, despite the changes that have occurred over time in the world of work, in technology and in the capacity to use it, has observed principles that have remained relatively stable: the written agreement between the employer and the worker, except when stipulated in a contract of work, that the work instruments, particularly those relating to information technologies, are provided by the employer, who must ensure its installation, maintenance and also payment of the inherent costs; the fundamental principle that the teleworker must have the same rights and duties as other workers; and respect for the privacy of the worker and his rest time, as well as providing it, by the employer, with the same working conditions that are guaranteed to other workers. From the Government's perspective, these basic principles have full meaning and remain present in a framework of normality, without prejudice to the need, recognized, to have depth, density and to be the subject of a new look in the light of the evolution of telework, the evolution of technological means and also of labour relations. We need to ensure a legislative framework that ensures workers' rights, giving room to the agreement, collective bargaining and, above all, incorporating the specificity of these working relationships. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why in the Green Paper on the Future of Work — which has already been invoked here and which was a compromise of the electoral programme and the Government programme — the Government has clearly identified some of the issues that concern us and which, in our view, should guide the collective weighting of telework issues: to safeguard this basic principle of the agreement between employers and workers; to strengthen collective bargaining in this field; to ensure that this agreement achieves balance between the parties and prevents many of the risks and problems that may arise from the situations in which telework was imposed and was necessary within the framework of the pandemic; to emphasize the possibilities and modalities for adopting hybrid models between face-to-face work and distance, from the outset preventing the risks of isolation; to ensure that telework does not involve an increase in costs for workers, and that there is clarity — clarity! — from this point of view, when it comes to the payment of expenditure relating to the working instruments used. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No less important is to ensure compliance with safety and health rules at work. Several of these aspects are present in the proposals and, in particular, in the proposals of the Socialist Party. And there is another very important aspect: the guarantee of safeguarding the privacy of workers, finding concrete mechanisms to operate this safeguard. Of course, this debate on telework does not run out on these issues, but also on issues for which telework has very significant implications, such as the reconciliation between work and family life and asymmetry between men and women, issues that must be considered in a broader framework. In addition, this debate on the Green Paper on the Future of Work and related matters is also under way in the social dialogue, and it is not just about telework, which is one of the many subjects dealt with in this book, which is a much broader debate, which touches much more matters and has enormous centrality in social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that part of the lines of reflection and guidance I have identified are reflected in proposals that are under discussion in the parliamentary framework. I read some of the Socialist Party, but obviously others also have virtualities, not entirely consistent with the reflection we have developed—as is normal in a parliamentary framework that is different—but still, with margin, we hope, to find the solutions and balances that respond to the various challenges that arise here. The votes I make, in particular in a debate that takes place in a time of pandemic and when we try to turn this page and look forward to the future, are that this debate, in particular what takes place in Parliament, should be done with time, weighting, depth and balance of the different values that are present. Telework is a major issue of our time and in which we express the risks, both the potential, in the right conditions, of changes in our societies and in the labour market. It is this path of improvement and empowerment of opportunities, but also of mitigation of risks, which, as has already been said, must be found. And I hope so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u100	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau records three entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u101	I shall answer together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u102	To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u103	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you spoke about the densification of telework standards, but there is a previous issue that has gone through this debate beyond the concrete content of the rules of regulation of the framework, which is to know how it is done. The Socialist Party has this extravagant proposal—I do not want to offend Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, but it was the expression she used—a proposal for parallel, extravagant legislation outside the Labour Code. That is to say, it is a regulation of telework outside the Labour Code and, frankly, no convincing argument has yet been heard here so that this is the option. It says the Socialist Party « but already exists, the scheme for repairing accidents at work is already a separate regime». It is, but telework today is already within the Labour Code. There must be no parallel regime, apart from the Labour Code. In fact, here in Parliament, no one agrees. Perhaps there is a great convergence between the Socialist Party and the Government on this solution, but I ask you, Mr Secretary of State : with whom will the Socialist Party converge in Parliament on telework? With the government certainly converges! from our point of view, this is a weird solution, which will create noise, interpretive chaos. Teleworking workers are not self-employed, they should not have a parallel regime which is contained in the Labour Code. That doesn't make sense! On the increase in expenditure, the Socialist Party's proposal makes this payment dependent on the employer's agreement. That is, it is not imperative, it can be done, it may not be done, it depends on the employer's agreement. That's what the norm says. [[Leia, read!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u104	I read, there's no problem, but I know the Socialist Party's proposal well! The proposal reads as follows: « The expenditure which is proven, and with the employer's agreement, the worker supports as a direct consequence of the acquisition ». Now, it depends on payment of the employer's agreement. Therefore, what the Socialist Party here announced as an imperative advance in relation to payment, the remuneration of workers was the payment of the meal allowance. We agree. Of course, we understand that the law must guarantee equal conditions for present workers and teleworkers, but frankly it is not a great novelty either because on 3 April 2020 the government — and well! — the Working Conditions Authority and the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations issued a circular of questions and answers on telework, and to question 19 'If I am on telework, am I entitled to the meal allowance? ', the answer is 'Yes, you have'. So, of course, it's very good that you stay in the law, but it would be bad if you don't stay. That's not the big news. We would not now, after this clarification from the Government, make legislation that would withdraw the allowance for meals to workers. We agree. What we do not really agree with—and we would like to know the Government's opinion on it—is when the Socialist Party, for example, says : « We shall without fail defend the right to privacy». Now, the right to privacy is in the bill presented by the Socialist Party, where it is said in article 10. paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: ‘the capture of the image, sound recording, writing register, access to the history or use of other means of control which may affect the worker’s right to privacy shall be prohibited.’ All right, we agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u105	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u106	I conclude, Madam President. Only in the application of the law it is said that this norm — this norm, among others — can be removed by agreement. This doesn't make sense! I therefore ask the Government if it does not consider that the regulation of telework should be made with mandatory standards and with an amendment to the Labour Code and not with this confusion proposed here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u107	For clarifications, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary of State, after hearing I was a little more confused about the government's position on telework. And if I was confused, of course, the Portuguese who are listening to us also remained. Before you ask him a few questions, and to focus the debate on truth and reality, let's start with two notes. First note: contrary to what has been said during this afternoon, particularly by the Socialist Party, telework, as provided for in the Labour Code, since 2003 — i.e. since 2003 we have the telework regime set out in the Labour Code — is a scheme which aims at the agreement of the parties. So it's not a novelty. Newness is what we live for and what we have experienced throughout this year, the exceptionality of the situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u110	And the fact that the government imposed, as a health measure, because it was a health measure, the telework deverts, because it is different, what is in the Labour Code. As the Secretary of State has said — and well — and the PSD agrees, in fact, that we cannot start a debate on telework, on the future of telework, on the wrong premises,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u112	...as opposed to what is being done this afternoon by some parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u114	We also agree with the Secretary of State that there should be a reflection, a deep debate on this matter, and that we should not build on the pandemic experience to discuss the future of telework. Here you have arrived, I ask the Secretary of State how you feel when you represent a socialist government that presented the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which ordered you to prepare for social consultation, and then, on the back of the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u116	... on the back of social consultation, the Socialist Party, in Parliament, presents this bill. [[PSD applause.]] In addition to disrespect for social consultation, I believe it is a disrespect for the government itself and the Socialist Party, which is ruling. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] On this point, there is another question which is also important for the government to answer. It is that Mr. Secretary of State said that such reflection is necessary and that the reflection is being made in social consultation. Mr Secretary of State, what is the objective of bringing a Green Paper on the Future of Work to social dialogue? Is it then to bring to Parliament a proposal for a law on the future of work, which includes telework?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u117	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u118	That is an answer that Mr. Secretary of State has to give. This is because the Socialist Party has completely ignored what the government wants to do and has advanced with this initiative. In conclusion, I want to say the following: in fact, this seems to be two Socialist Parties. But I have even agreed with Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes when she says no, that she is only a Socialist Party. It's completely drifting! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u119	Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, what is expected of the Government, first of all, is not that it solves the problems but that it relegislates a priori and that it does not always go after the events. The Government, Mr. Secretary of State, is always behind the damage. What did the current government do about telework? It was not only not to avoid the problems, as it should have done, because since 2015 it has been alerted by the CDS to the need to promote a serious debate, at the heart of social consultation, on telework, the government has done nothing strictly. Unfortunately, only on 26 April, after knowing that several parties had submitted proposals on telework, did the Government announce that it had called the social partners to a meeting of the social dialogue on the future of telework. The government did not do what it should have done, it did not foresee, and towed the situation and the political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u121	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u122	I'm done now, Madam President. So we ask, Mr Secretary of State, why this delay? Why didn't you listen to the CDS? Why did it take a pandemic crisis to wake up for telework? Indeed, it is regrettable.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u123	To reply, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u124	Madam President, Mr. Pedro Morais Soares, I thank you for your question. The honourable Member is clearly ill informed. As has already been said, these matters were planned in the electoral programme and, above all, in the Government Programme. With regard to the Green Paper on the Future of Work, which was approved, it was already announced that it would be done by 2020, but in the meantime there was a pandemic. Perhaps the honourable Member had planned it, but I personally did not foresee it, no one did. We have all been caught by surprise, except for the honourable Member, perhaps. [[PS laughter.]] In any case, I wanted to say that during the pandemic we acted on time and when it was necessary. That is why many workplaces — although creating problems about the application of telework standards — had a framework of rules that is absolutely exceptional and that in any case allowed many sectors and businesses to function, because by receiving support, the economy did not paralyze and the workers were not even more exposed to the risk of unemployment and other social problems arising from the economic and social framework which, in the meantime, was generated. I also thank Mrs Clara Marques Mendes for her questions. I believe, however, that there is a lack of perception here about the government's actions in this area. The Green Paper on the Future of Work explores many subjects. Telework will be a small part of the discussion, because there are a number of very diverse areas, some related to technological issues, others related to labour relations, others related to areas related to the evolution of the labour market itself. It is therefore a work that has been developed, which was first-hand shared with the social partners, with the main guidelines, in November 2020, and which has now been presented to the partners and is under discussion. There is, however, one thing that I would like to say to you, Mrs Deputies: of course, each institution, each entity and each organ of sovereignty has its sphere of action, has its legitimacy, has its times.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u125	I said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u126	It would hardly be that each of the areas and the sovereignty agencies did not have their autonomy to be able to do their work as they understand and, within the parliamentary framework, also, before the initiatives presented by the different parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member tells me of contradictions, but there was even one party — see there, Mrs Deputy, who presented a draft resolution to recommend to the Government that the telework issues be discussed in social consultation on 22 April 2021 and, four days later, he presented a legislative initiative to change telework issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u127	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u128	Did you hear the social concert? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u129	I'm sorry, and it was four days before we were going to have the debate in concert? Oh, my God! There was a draft resolution of the PSD to hold a discussion in consultation and, four days later, they delivered a legislative initiative in this House. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be sure of your party and the choices it takes, with all legitimacy. Finally, replying to Mr Soeiro, whom I thank for the notes he has left, I will be happy not to ask myself to speak on matters which have been presented by the different parties. It wouldn't be curious if I did. They were parliamentary initiatives of the different parties—of the PS, as of other political forces. As you will understand, the government will surely be closer to the guidance of the PS proposal than it is from other parties. It is only natural that this is the case that it would be strange not to do so. In any case, I would like to leave two notes on the questions you have asked. The first was the reference that made the aspects that were recently clarified by state services, with intervention in the area of work. As you will understand, Mr President, it is quite different that there is a clarification of public services or that clarification of the aspect which you referred to, in fact, by others, is reflected in the law. On the other hand, I must also say — and it will not be new to anyone — that we have a slightly different view and that I believe also goes through the PS proposal, to which you referred, of the relationship between the law, which, we fully agree, is absolutely necessary, in particular in a framework of inequality as is that of labour relations, and that which is the space of autonomy which we believe should exist for collective bargaining. This is because having a collective bargaining name only, which has no autonomy in relation to the law, it is not collective bargaining, it is just taking on small aspects of the law and clarifying it. Well, that's not our vision. As you know, the Labour Code provides for a set of subjects which are reserved, from the point of view of the so-called most favourable treatment, rules that cannot be removed, but there are subjects in which it can and should have autonomy. The issue of telework, safeguarding fundamental issues, is clearly one of the areas in which there is room for the autonomy of negotiation, the agreement of the parties' will, in particular in collective bargaining, to be respected and even promoted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u130	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration, José Couto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's programme had already called for a telework bet to promote workers' autonomy through the flexibility of labour provision, but not the flexibility of working links. The Government's programme promoted the reconciliation of professional life with personal and family life, too. The Public Administration was not unaware of this mode of work, although it was seen with some mistrust or skepticism by some leaders and some organizations. The pandemic context has been recognized to accelerate the technological transformation of the Public Administration and to prove that it is possible to change processes and make them more efficient, to deconstruct prejudices about telework, especially at the level of productivity, the destruction of organizational culture and teams and data security, among others. It is therefore true that, during the pandemic, the use of telework in the Public Administration has shown that workers and leaders have achieved, and are able, to work in networking and collaboration, in addition to the formal logics and boundaries of the organizations and classical circuits that were used to. This is proof of the recent study by the Directorate-General for Public Administration and Employment (DGAEP), a study by the Public Administration and the Public Administration, which affects the adaptation of the models of organization of work in the Public Administration during the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u133	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also true that the use of compulsory telework, in mass, in permanence and with all members of the family confined to home, does not make it clear what this method of normal working time can be or what we want it to be the use of telework in the future. I have said that we do not see in telework any panacea of modern times, as has been repeated here by some benches. We certainly know that telework is a reality that has come to stay, because that is how workers want it and why they want it. What we want is to take advantage of it, whether at the level of reconciling professional life with personal and family life, whether at the level of the empowerment of information technologies, whether at the level of training and training, or at the level of territorial cohesion and environmental issues, which are very relevant today. We want to take this course in a participatory way, with regard to labour rights, the rights to the privacy of workers and their families, by the limits of the normal working time, the right to rest and gender equality — it was very difficult to put women in the public space and we do not want to take them out of this area, preventing the alienation of workers from their teams, or in matters of work accidents which guarantee the causal link between the provision of work and the harmful fact. That is why, in July — in July, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — we wanted to hear the public administration's trade unions on this matter, which brought us important input to reflect on this issue. We have promoted a set of forms of discussion through participatory workshops with leaders and workers on this subject and that is why we also welcome this discussion in Parliament, with an extended democratic debate, with various bills and with various solutions which will certainly be consensualized in the Assembly of the Republic and will be better than the partial initiatives of each parliamentary group. I think we have every advantage in doing so, maintaining the flexibility of this instrument and the rights of workers, looking at the gains and possible savings and the burden that exists here for both sides, always safeguarding the will and reversibility of this instrument. The Public Administration can and should be the catalyst for these new forms of work for other realities in the country and the employer state has not only this ability to present itself as a focus of transformation in this process, but also as an important role of multiplier of good practice and discipliner of labour relations in these new models. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Public Administration will not resign itself, either on this or other subjects, from having this role. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u134	Mr. Secretary of State, you have a request for clarification. To make this same request for clarification, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members in the July 2020 debate said that telework was an important instrument for differentiation, improvement, efficiency and efficiency of the Portuguese Public Administration. Administrative modernization goes through the innovation of strategies, the innovation of practices that support the construction of a digital society, a society in the future where the stimulus of remote work should be seen as an opportunity to promote the gradual decentralization and deconcentration of Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] According to Eurofound, it is quite likely that telework rates remain significantly higher than before the onset of the pandemic. A study presented by DGAEP on the transformations that took place in the Public Administration reveals that the vast majority of public leaders consider that telework did not have a negative impact on productivity, nor did it affect workers' motivation. For most leaders, this is the key moment to review the models of organization of work in the Public Administration as well as to proceed with more finer and stricter regulation. In addition, 68 % of the public employees in question consider telework to be very positive in terms of personal, family and professional life. At the same time, and because we defend that this form of work can and should be mobilized from the interior and its appreciation and because telework is not work at home, we remember that 57 coworking spaces have already been protocoled inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the world has changed. We know that in many areas of our lives changes are irreversible. Telework is a reality, it came to stay. And, contrary to what is expected, it is welcomed in a very positive way by workers in public functions. It is our obligation to ensure that workers' rights are safeguarded, without prejudice to the objectives of the organisations, finding the balance between mitigating disadvantages and broadening benefits. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to ask you if you do not consider it our obligation to guarantee this step as a fundamental step in the construction of a more just, more coherent and more equal society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u136	To reply, Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration, José Couto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u137	Madam Member, thank you for your question. I would like to tell you that since the first hour, we have considered that the opportunities to value the interior on this path are enormous. We want to develop a set of coworking spaces that can involve public administration workers in various areas, encouraging even collaborative work logics, so that organizations and their workers do not close up on their spaces and their assignments, but can also cooperate in this way. With this, we may have positive effects on the depopulation of the interior, which is a terrible scourge that the country lives, and we need to start walking. If this instrument also serves this purpose, we believe that yes and we believe that we should do so as well, with gains, as I said, of participation and collaboration among the organizations because they are spaces that will meet, in the same place, in collaboration with local authorities, moreover, several employees of the Public Administration in order to promote cooperation and we can have a more valued and more populated interior. There is no sense in maintaining the classic logics of services located in large cities, when we can use this instrument to also make way in this aspect of territorial cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u138	Mr Miguel Costa Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Today, we speak of work and the great lesson of the last 200 years is that work generates wealth, but that work is only sustainable when work is worthy, when it has rights, when wages are fair and decent schedules. This is a truth that has to endure the transformation of work, its form and its substance. Before the pandemic, digital transition would already introduce new forms of work and, associated with them, old problems: in digital platforms, often associated with false green receipts; in robotization, replacing jobs; in digitization of processes, which, although positive, is sometimes difficult and unequal; and, of course, in telework. We must look at the future of work as a matter of urgency, embracing it, but above all transforming it. That is why Parliament must, in dialogue with the social partners, legislate for the future without ignoring the lessons of the present. That is what the Socialist Party is proposing. The experience and investment in telework that the pandemic has forced us will be an option that many will choose in the future. This must be a free choice, which depends on a voluntary and balanced relationship, with rights and duties, of the worker and the employer. Telework can allow better reconciliation, allows workers to make use of the world and employers to find talent all over the world, but it has costs and consequences that we have to regulate and must make up for. We must do so very consciously that telework is not the same thing as the present work, it is not a panacea making a rule in the future, it is not a martyrdom either. On the contrary, telework requires a renewed responsibility for the balance of labour relations—that is what the PS proposes. Because we know the consequences of telework, in physical and mental health, we propose a follow-up to health and safety at work every year, rather than every two years. Because if you lose immediate and personal communication, at the workplace, among colleagues, with consequences for professional development, we ensure presence meetings every two months and a 48-hour advance for calls for presence meetings. Because the laptop and the smartphone facilitate contact outside hours and permanent work—as many of us testify—telework becomes, therefore, very easily not a paradise, but a hell in the reconciliation of professional and personal life. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the Portuguese, long hours are no novelty. We are from the countries where we work the most hours and where almost half of the overtime are not paid, taking 600 million euros from the workers' pockets. It is for these workers that you should speak of those who say that there is no need to regulate the right to turn off, that the hours of work and rest are already in the law. This is because those who work know that the laws we have are not enough. We want more time, for ourselves, for our families, for our lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS is very clear: not only do workers have the right to turn off, as employers have a duty not to contact workers in their period to « turn off ». And in order for teleworkers to be free to organize their working time, limiting contact time necessarily means setting times for contact, which, in the absence of agreement, is only and only the working time, only and only the will of the worker. That is how, with rights, we ensure equality between those who work in digital and those who work in the presence. That is how we broke with precariousness, as we did in the reform of professional stages or with the reform of labour laws. By doing so - not only do we do the digital transition, but also the climate transition - with less travel, with more local trade, with more time and proximity to our families and our communities, with more freedom. It is time to act to transform the future of work. It is time to act to ensure a fair digital and climate transition. It is time to act to regulate telework, so that it is a telework with rights and with the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u140	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party is right: the world has changed. It changed so much that in its 2019 programme it said the following: telework should be included in collective bargaining and, above all, must be the target of a broad debate of social dialogue. This is precisely the opposite of what you did this year, with the criticisms of all trade unions for not participating in the negotiation process. The same PS that said it would integrate this process into collective bargaining, created a legal anachronism, creating a complementary regime, when Portugal, together with Italy, was the first country in Europe to include telework legislation in the Labour Code. The Socialist Party then seems not to be the Socialist Party that we have here today. Portugal and Italy were of the first countries in 2003 to regulate telework and did so in the Labour Code and not in any supplementary regime that, tomorrow, will be in the hands of any transitional government that wants to do so. But the trend and pattern of the Socialist Party at the moment remained. The same government that made a request from Zmar to take the houses away from the residents is the same government that imposes telework as being compulsory, even if 80 % of companies disagree on it. It is 80 % of the entrepreneurs who disagree with compulsory telework!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u142	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u143	Madam President, I will finish. And what did the Socialist Party government do? He ignored and forgot! This is the trend of socialist governance that we have, and this, also in relation to telework, is seen perfectly.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u144	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys : At the end of this long debate, we have been discussing in these speeches something that is not at stake. The whole debate went on to confuse the telework regime, saying that now it would become a volunteer, with working hours, with the right to « switch off ». Allow me, but the PSD cannot leave this debate without reminding you of Article 166 ( 5 ). the current Labour Code, which concerns telework, because it is good that we all remember what it says: the contract is subject to written form and must contain the identification, signatures and residence or seat of the parties; the indication of the activity, with express mention of the telework regime and corresponding remuneration; the indication of the normal working time...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u147	... if the period laid down for the provision of telework is less than the foreseeable duration of the contract of employment; the indication of the person responsible for the installation and maintenance of equipment and payment, as well as the identification of the establishment. What seems to have been discussed today was the imposition on workers by the Government of home work. That's not telework! That's voluntary, by nature. It was announced here as if it were something new. It's not! [[PSD applause.]] What happened was that we saw thousands and thousands of relegated workers to their homes while taking care of their children, who were at home because of the pandemic and were unable to attend school. They had their dependents without free time, without home support, without day centres, without absolutely nothing, and they were obliged to reconcile the unthinkable: to take care of children, dependents, the elderly and, at the same time, to perform their duties, functions they never thought to perform in telework. That's what happened! The PSD, unlike the PS, heard the social partners in their parliamentary group before presenting the proposals and that is essential. We do not speak in social consultation to then ignore the social partners. We are consistent today and always yesterday, therefore, before presenting any initiative, yes, we heard the social partners and all told us: "A broad debate is needed. Do not keep on seeking. ” at this time, one can still not understand exactly what needs to be changed, because it is not properly legislated when it is not in normal time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u148	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u149	Therefore, the PSD, in a very coherent manner, presented a draft resolution recommending that the Government dialogue in social dialogue. And, Mr Secretary of State, I am glad that we presented it, because it may be that we listen to the social partners. In view of the position of the Socialist Party and the Government, it is important to remind you that you have to respect the social partners, which you have not systematically done, as they have told us throughout this and the previous Legislations — the pro-training is concertation, it is not dialogue. I am glad that we have presented the draft resolution to remind you that it is important to dialogue. Regarding the bill, the PSD, in consistency, did what she always said she would do: it presented the surgical changes that we all felt would be necessary, particularly with regard to the payment of expenses and accidents at work, because it seems to be confusing telework with work at home. Telework is work outside the company's location and it is important that the worker does not see his rights alibi because he did not communicate in time to the insurance company where he would be performing his duties. This flexibility seems fundamental to us to safeguard the rights and best interests of the worker in the event of an accident at work. It is also not from 9 a.m. to 19 a.m. that the worker's privacy should be respected — but why is it from 9 a.m. to 19 a.m. if that is not the worker's working time? The worker can work from 8 hours a half a day, from 8 hours a day to 14 hours and it is in that period that must be monitored. But we realize that the extreme left and, unfortunately, a part of the PS wants to "harden" and, increasingly, impose and refrain the rights of the parties in social dialogue. It is then in dialogue that you go to the one who is the best interest of all, of employers and workers. The world of work only works if it meets the interests of all, does not have any ideological imposition, without any relation to reality. However, the Socialist Party came to make one of the greatest efforts made, which was to codify labour law so that it could be understood by all, creating an extravagant diploma — this is the legal expression and the technical expression —...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u150	Yeah, it's fashion!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u151	... completely in the wake of good practice and, above all, merely copying and breaking the Labour Code regime with two or three very minor amendments, which, in fact, did not improve it, pretending to be a new regime. Even with regard to workers in public functions in telework, they should not have read the law stating that they apply what is in the Labour Code. They simply did so in coherence and amended the Labour Code. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u153	I will finish, Madam President. We believe, however, that the fall to the specialty will allow us to make the best changes and that we will ultimately meet the needs of the national labour market. That is why we are here, not for any ideological agendas, to the wake of everything, of everyone and of social dialogue. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u154	Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys : At the end of this debate, we find that we cannot talk about telework without talking about gender equality, as we see in the Socialist Party's proposal. For this reason, new telework schemes should offer equal opportunities for men and women, as it recommends, moreover, to ILO. Telework cannot, nor should it be synonymous with women's retreat to work at home. The telework obviously has many advantages that have already been indicated — I do not have time to mention them — but it has some risks. It cannot dilute the borders between the private sphere and the professional, it cannot prevent the right to disconnect, it cannot hinder the reconciliation between family, personal and professional life, nor can it accentuate social inequalities, nor gender inequalities. But that can only be avoided if telework is regulated. Negotiations for its regulation should, as we have already said, be held in the framework of a collective working convention, with regard to conditions of flexibility or performance management. Telework cannot exclude, on the contrary, from promoting, as in any other work regime, licences for caregivers and parental leave, which stimulate men for this type of care, as our legislation has done since 2009, with visible results. Organizational cultures are always important for equality, but they are even more important at these times. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to say that the house can no longer be a domestic workplace, only for women, but also a working space for men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u156	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : It is important not to lose sight that what we are discussing are labor relations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u159	...we're not just discussing technology. We know the importance of technology in all spheres of life, but what matters is that telework is a new way of exploiting the workforce. The rest is heavenly music!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u161	It is good that we understand: what characterizes the right to work is not the mutual agreement. If we ask, one by one, the workers who are exploited in Odemira, as they went to work there, they will answer that they are there for mutual agreement. What characterizes labour law is workers' rights and collective bargaining. That is what characterizes the right to work. What we want to safeguard, when telework is regulated, is that we are not working with the technology of the 21st century and with the labor relations of the 19th century, which is, indeed, what the patronage intends to impose. That is why we do not align ourselves with the fact that the PSD has packaged us throughout the afternoon, because those who have the power to legislate are the representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u162	And what does social consultation serve? Oh, my God! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u163	The Assembly of the Republic cannot be replaced by any form of corporate chamber. Dialogue is important and the Government is doing the dialogue that it understands with the social partners, but no one can replace the legitimacy of the Assembly of the Republic to legislate on labour relations. Madam President, I would like to leave just one more point. We don't have a job contract and a telework contract. Telework is a form of work relationship within the contract of work and the contract of work can assume, under conditions that we believe should be exceptional and regulated, a form of telework, which cannot be excluded from the worker's agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u164	That's what's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u165	But there must be a minimum standard of regulation and telework cannot be left exclusively for free negotiation between a weaker part and a stronger part, because we know what that is in. Therefore, it is important to establish a minimum criterion of payment, to the worker, of charges with telework, which cannot be left to proof. If you're working at home, does the worker have to prove that the light switch is on and that you don't work in the light of the candles?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u166	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u167	Do you have to demonstrate that it's costing telecommunications? Of course not! It's something that doesn't lack a demonstration! Finally, Madam President, we do not understand that telework is a worker's privilege and that it is a way of reconciling working life with family life. We cannot consider telework with the idea that the worker, while in telework, does other things, who takes care of the children or who is informal caregiver. No, it can't be. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u168	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u169	In conclusion, Madam President, leaving only the latter underlined: telework is not a privilege and the worker must be compensated and there must be a very clear form of regulation of a social minimum standard, regarding the use of this form of work. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u170	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : during this afternoon, we had an important debate to find solutions to the problem of telework. If we can not converge in the whole of the solutions, as it has already become clear from the various interventions, I believe that we all agree in the urgent need to respond to the consequences of the significant expansion of telework over the past year, but also of the structural challenges of digital transition, as reflected in the electoral programme and the Government of the Socialist Party Programme, responding to the wishes of the workers, responding to the difficulties of employers, overcoming the concerns of each other, offering the best solutions for telework to be more equitable and fairer for all. The work that awaits us in the specialty allows us to build and not divide, starting from the natural options of each party. As we said this afternoon, the Socialist Party does not look at this subject in a divisive perspective, nor in a conflicting perspective. Telework, for those who can resort to it — is not all sectors of the economy, as we know — includes very complex and very disparate realities that do not sympathize with a black and white reading of the world. There are good and bad examples in everything, there are companies that are well prepared for distance work and others that are less, in their organizational dynamics, those that respect the schedules set for their workers and others who do not, those that understand the need to sacrifice workers for costs added to telework and others that do not. However, there are also workers who are comfortable in telework and others who are not, those who prefer the office to work at home, who can choose, those who cannot establish a clear frontier between working time and leisure time, those who break social ties that only find, or mostly find, in their work space, those who have the most costs but who, eventually, can save, for example, in day-to-day travel, those who do not have an adequate housing for the management of work and family management, or the working women, for example, as my comrade Elza Pais has now remembered, always they and many of them, who in telework see the weight of the dual working hours, between official work and domestic work, which continues to fall mostly on them. To all this, and much more, it is necessary to give an answer, understanding that all of this exists, that there are no universal responses, that there are no single responses and that telework is not structurally, good or bad, favorable or unfavorable, always depending on the concrete reality of each company, of each worker, and on their personal and family context. We also know that the enormous expression that telework currently has, the direct consequence of the pandemic, will hardly be maintained in the coming months, or even years, with the progressive normalization of our collective life, but the experience we have acquired over these months allows us to perceive failures and open up the space for this debate and for new legislative approaches. It has been done not only in Portugal but also in other countries, with significant changes already operated in France and Spain, responding to these needs. In addition to the amendments which the Government itself has already assumed to want to introduce and today reiterated, amendments which have been discussed in the conciliation proceedings, I would like to take advantage of this final stage of the debate to reiterate the lines of reference that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group defends in its project to make the necessary changes to the law, which we want to be valid and in equal circumstances for both private sector workers and workers in the Public Administration sector. In essence, we begin with the mutual agreement. Telework, in the perspective of the Socialist Party, must result from the agreement between worker and employer, either in the initial contract or in the specific telework contract. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] This position, contrary to what I have heard here, assumes that the worker is even the most fragile part of the relationship to be established in this contract and therefore telework can only take place by mutual agreement and, in case he is refused by the employer, this must be justified in writing. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] Secondly, I stress the identification of rights and duties which must be enshrined and which are valid for both employers and workers. Thirdly, I refer to the guarantee of equality between the face-to-face worker and the teleworker, particularly at the level of wages and allowances, equipment, tools necessary for work, working hours, trade union rights and compliance with safety and health rules at work. We guarantee the right to privacy, sealing and vetoing intrusive controls through digital means. We ensure the right to disconnect to ensure the right to rest and to the fulfilment of the hours in the life-work balance. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] Take it easy, Mrs. Member, that I am really finishing and the honourable Member has already had an opportunity to speak. [[All right.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u172	We define that there can be no wage difference between teleworker and face-to-face worker, while at the same time establishing that expenditure must be ensured by the employer, and that value, being impossible — all of us understand this — to define universally for all workers in all sectors of telework, must be achieved by agreement between the parties or in the seat of collective bargaining. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u173	Finally, and among other dimensions of our project, which I do not now have time to deepen in this final intervention, we leave room for collective bargaining, dynamizing collective bargaining, dynamizing collective bargaining, a value dear to the democratic left, dynamizing it in the definition of telework conditions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u174	Among other things, these are some of the axes of our project that we have already presented to the social partners and which will now move forward towards the process of speciality where, in respect of the integrity of our proposal and the principles that guide it, we will, of course, be available for dialogue with all parties, to find the best solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u175	To conclude this debate, I have the floor for an intervention by Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have spoken in this debate about the risks of telework, its enormous advantages — and we have heard a lot about it over the past few months — but also about its risks. It happens that we are not at risk, we are faced with a concrete experience on a planetary scale on the consequences already seen, the abuses already committed, on thousands and thousands of workers in Portugal, and millions worldwide, by the imposition of telework. They are abuses in their working hours, extended indefinitely, with the increase of exploitation, in the degradation of family living conditions, by the presence of continuous contact and permanent connection, in the breakdown of income resulting from the imputation of the costs of telework to the worker. This is no risk, that is what has already happened and that is what needs to be prevented, through legislation. This is the objective of the Left Block with this agenda, with the proposal it presented and with the opening of this debate in Parliament. And there's a lot of work ahead of you. We want to do this work in good faith and we have the hope that Parliament will be able to meet this objective. And so we asked the committee to be discharged for discussion on the speciality, without a vote, of the project of the Left Block. The other parties will also follow this path, so that everyone can count on the deadlines for the public debate of their projects and can have their projects properly present in the specialty work. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the employment relationship is not a relationship between equal parties. There is, in the labour relationship, a more vulnerable part. It is this most vulnerable part that is protected by law. And when we look at the Socialist Party project brought to this debate, we see that it is a sort of "liberal minute" of the Socialist Party in the debate of telework: everything is guaranteed, all the rights that are foreseen are conditional upon the existence of a collective convention that confirms. Therefore, they are not guaranteed legal rights, they are possibilities of rights, that the collective convention will confirm or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u177	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u178	And this conception of labour relations comes into direct shock with a democratic conception of these relations. The PS presents a strong standard on the obligation of the employer to provide the equipment and systems, but it is if the collective convention does not remove that right; a very strong standard on privacy protection, but it is if the collective convention does not nullify that standard; a strong standard on work accidents, but it is if the collective convention is to be confirmed;...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u179	No, that's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u180	... and even on the right to disconnect, if the collective convention allows that right to remain. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] Even worse, in the matter of the right to shut down, the contact time is inserted, the possibility that the collective convention will introduce, in addition to its working time, the worker is subject to availability without any remuneration. This is not progress, it is, of course, a backward step. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, the collective convention serves to add to the law, cannot serve to impoverish the worker's legal protection, as the PS has now come to admit with his project, and as Mr. Secretary of State Miguel Cabrite mentioned, saying that the protection of the worker provided in the Socialist Party's diploma is not included and is covered by the most favourable treatment principle, that is, it is even dependent on the employer's will to celebrate this collective convention. And, therefore, if the collective convention dissociates the rights which the law provides, the worker no longer has those rights. It is therefore with this balance sheet on the proposals in the presence that we address to the speciality debate, not without expectation, as I said at the outset, because we will go to this process with the greatest good faith and with the greatest willingness to work for a telework regulation that is protective and that draws the proper balance sheet of the experience already experienced during the pandemic period. But the PS will have two options, one is aligning with the parties on the right in rights that may exist or not. We have not come to this debate and we have not come to this legislative process to conceive rights that may exist or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u181	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u182	I shall conclude, Madam President. We have come to this debate because we believe that the necessary dialogue, work and political development of the Government and the Socialist Party on the left depend on being able to answer the questions of work. And it is with this objective and with the expectation that the PS will correct the serious errors of its project in the specialty process and that the Assembly of the Republic will be able to legislate to protect workers from the risks already tested during the pandemic period — those who have suffered these abuses — that we will seek to develop the work in particular. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u183	Mr President, there has been some confusion here with the times, by the departments and the Bureau. Generally, he had 2 minutes for the closure, but as he also had some time for previous interventions, there was the junction of both. Therefore, the honourable Member has spoken more than one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u184	No, no! We had seven minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate. The Secretary of the Bureau will read the usual information. Please, Mrs. Sofia Araújo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u186	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that the following Members were present by video conference. Members : José Cesario and Ivan Gonçalves, both of the PS. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-05-05.u187	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, our plenary session tomorrow begins at 14 p.m., having as a first point an urgent debate, required by the NAP, on illegal immigration, trafficking networks of people, work slavery, overcrowding and housing insecurity of agricultural workers in the city of Odemira and consequent risk to public health, as well as the environmental cares problem affects the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina. We have, as a second point, political declarations, followed by a third point by the discussion of the Bill No 81 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the Integrated Rural Fire Management System in continental territory and defines its rules of operation. The fourth item on the agenda is also 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2021, for which there are no time of discussion assigned. As a fifth and last point on our agenda, we have the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish everyone a good rest of the day and night. The session is closed. See you tomorrow. [[It was 18 hours and 1 minute.]]
