ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Before we begin the first item on the agenda, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do the favor of reading a set of information that is useful to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by announcing the expiry of Decree-Law No 14 / 2021 proceedings of 12 February, which amends the legal regime of entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory [ Parliamentary assessment No 44 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. I also inform the House about an amendment to draft resolution No 1187 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Andorra, which will take place between 19 and 22 April and not, as approved and voted, between 20 and 22 April. I now announce that you have entered the Bureau, and was admitted by Mr President, the Proposal for a Law No 88 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which falls to 13. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 804 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 805 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and 807 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, in connection with 14. a. I also mean that they entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1211 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 1212 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1213 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1214 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 9. the Commission, 1215 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 1216 / XIV / 2. a ( IL ), which falls to 12. the Commission. Finally, Parliamentary assessment No 47 / XIV / 2 was admitted as well. a ( PSD, CDS-PP, IL, Non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let's start our work today. of the first point is the joint assessment, in general, of Law Projects Nos 706 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Determines the circumstances in which digital environment access to protected content should be removed or prevented, as well as the procedures and means to achieve this result and 787 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Computer Data Sharing Legal Regime. To speak for the PS, Mr. José Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this legislative initiative which the PS presents is intended to respond to a problem, which is biccudo, I would say, and which will tend to get worse as we can take steps in the way or further steps in the way of the digital revolution. I am going to distribute — and I would ask that it be appended to today's debate — an infographic which reveals to us what happens every minute on the Internet as regards the transmission of files. They are data that reveal things like 4, 7 million YouTube videos seen in various parts of the world, more than 1, 3 million people logging in on Facebook, 4, 1 million Google searches, 764 000 hours video viewing, etc. to stop talking about Tinder's swipes, where we have about 1, 3 million swipes per minute. Obviously, as none of this has to do with copyright, I'm not going to take a look at Tinder's swipes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u5	It's better not, it's better not!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u6	...but I'm going to take a look at the protected works. Protected works are now within reach of anyone in digital libraries. The Gutenberg Project, for example, has put thousands of public works, naturally within the reach of anyone, in several languages. There are many works related to Portugal or Portuguese authors, but not only. There are other projects that allow the same, such as Europeana, as a European project, the Library of Congress, which many years ago brought a portentous amount of digital works for the worldwide dissemination, the French Gaelic Library, which does the same thing. And we ourselves, in charge of the National Library, the National Digital Library, with many works of free and easy access. They can be read, they can be shared, they can be disseminated and this is a great novelty of the digital revolution. But there is also piracy of these works, which is clearly prohibited by the Copyright Code, and which happens today in many ways: in a static and dynamic manner, the latter through broadcasts which may be subject to illegal broadcast, resulting in damage and damage to the State, particularly in the area of VAT ( value added tax ). We have the legal obligation to intervene and the project describes, I would say, cinematographically, what needs to be done in these circumstances. We thus provide sustained and robust support for a practice that has been happening and we do not deal with technical issues, which will have to be treated differently. I would like to mention here — and that is new — that the European Parliament discussed a report last day 13, which will be discussed in May on another new problem, which is the transmission of sports shows. A goal of Cristiano Ronaldo will be a work of art, but it is not protected by the Code of Copyright, and such a game is obviously exciting, but has no coverage in the Code. It is necessary to create such coverage. Until the European Parliament can do this, either by regulation or by directive, it will take many months and our proposal, Mr President. Members, it is that this project is extended to cover these sporting events as well. We will not be able to vote on the PCP project because it transforms literary works and policies into computer data. And, therefore, OsCus of Judas, Lobo Antunes and OPartido with Glass Walls, Álvaro Cunhal, would be computer data, characters, bits and bytes. Now, there is no reason to waste the entire doctrine of copyright—in fact, we are bound to do so—and the authors are not souls engineers, as it was said, at some point many years ago, that there is no memory, but they are even writers, they are authors and they need to protect their rights. It's in this sense that the PS bill goes. We are available for improvement, in particular that which I have just mentioned and which would be, or will be, highly innovative and I will ask, Mr President, then to distribute not only these infographics as the study to which I refer, which is indeed a very important study, requested by the Committee on Legal Affairs of the European Parliament and which must be carefully considered by the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u7	Mrs Ana Margarida has the floor, moreover, Ana Mesquita. It's our secretary's letter that's a little weird. I was thinking about who Mrs. Anne Margarida would be... So, Mrs Ana Mesquita, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, because, in fact, Margarida I am not. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents today Bill No. 787 / XIV / 2. a and, in fact, we must say that we have a differentiated view of how a certain value, which is constitutional, should be realized in digital terms. We are talking about what is access to culture and arts in its dimensions of creation and profit, which the CFP considers a right and a factor of individual and collective progress, which essentially contributes to what is the cultural, social and economic development and dynamization of our country, and has this value enshrined and effectively preserved in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 78. o. So what we are saying is not in the sense that the Socialist Party Member put here. On the contrary, what we say in our project is that there is a need for the protection of copyright and related rights, a dimension which cannot be ignored, especially even — and we point out this — given that it is the fruit of work and, as such, must always be properly paid. But here is another issue that must be taken into account, which concerns how we can access certain cultural goods, how they are made available, and who at this time benefits from their digital availability. This is, in fact, another component of what moves us, because we know that nowadays who invoicing, who earns, who benefits, above all, from what is existence, the circulation and even sharing of content and computer data, whether they are cultural goods or not, are the operators and service providers of Internet access. They have a great interest in where there is a lot to circulate because it is this traffic that will naturally also remove their dividends. However, the problem is that people who want access to these cultural goods have difficulties, have indeed barriers to their free access, at the same time that there are those with them invoices, which is the case with operators, at the same time as the authors themselves, artists, producers are not properly compensated for this fact. Therefore, what we have said and put in place is that there are other ways of compatibility this cultural benefit of those who share, the material benefit of those who provide and, indeed, what is an illegitimate appropriation of a more-valuable content that circulate via telematics and that, in practice, are not done by the user. What we've been saying is that the user can't be looked at a priori as a criminal, can't be looked at as someone who's going to bill with this data sharing. That is the question we have actually raised. It seems to us that there can be a vision that does not consider antagonistic — which is what we are defending — the free sharing with such rights of those who create, defending the need for remuneration of authors, artists, creators, producers and various copyright holders and related rights. Therefore, our initiative presents the possibility of finding more just solutions, in a context where the perception of values as a result of copyright continues to be the way of how large economic groups in this sector that operate the market at the level of internet services refuse to assume what should be their responsibilities of fair remuneration for the work of artists and authors. What we propose is explicit here and, indeed, to make some sense, there must also be the elimination of the rates currently applicable to DRM (digitalrights management), which seems to us to penalize the user, who can often even use this mechanism not to share protected content but even things that are own, created by itself. These are some of the lines presented by the PCP in Bill No. 787 / XIV / 2. and that, of course, we will always be available to deepen, because we believe that we need to continue discussing this issue of computer data sharing and access to all cultural goods.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u9	Mr Sara Madruga of the Costa, for the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my compliments. Recently, the PSD has made a serious contribution to approving the Portuguese Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Age, the first gender initiative in Portugal. The PSD is aware that, through its proposed amendments, it has been able to introduce greater balance and weighting between the individual rights of Internet users and copyright, also the result of hard and fruitful work between various entities in the sector. It is in this spirit of duty that we want to continue to work, defending, again, the involvement and hearing of all relevant entities in the area of copyright. In fact, our work will only be completed and complete, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when we are able to have a special regime approved, which makes it available to copyright holders more effective defence mechanisms to ensure the legal protection of their content in the digital environment. This is the debate that we must make today, in search of a balanced solution to combat piracy on the Internet, which safeguards the rights of ownership and economic exploitation of the authors, but also free access to information and navigation on the Internet, a solution that offers guarantees of contradiction and recourse and confers clear powers on the supervisory and supervisory authority, the IGAC ( General Inspection of Cultural Activities ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already rejected the statistical and collective view of the CFP, contrary to the national and European framework for the protection of copyright, a vision that restricts copyright and even imposes a cost that we all know sooner or later will eventually be impacted on the final consumer. We do not follow up and we will vote against this initiative of the CFP because it is an initiative taken from the baú, even in a certain way, requisitioned and presented for the fourth time to Parliament, in addition to creating an unacceptable tax on access to the Internet, with which we do not agree. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS initiative, on the other hand, is not innovative and even welcomes solutions and mechanisms that are already in force, lacks improvements and changes that enrich it. We recall, for example, that the blocking of piracy content has been planned since 2004 and that IGAC already has control and access powers for websites dedicated to the distribution of illegal copies of music, videos, books or newspapers. We also draw attention to the excessive limitations of this initiative, which are identified in the joint position of the API ( Portuguese Press Association ), AUDIOGEST ( Association for the Management and Distribution of Rights ), GEDIPE ( Association for the Collective Management of Copyright and Cinematographic and Audiovisual Producers ), MAPINET ( Civic Anti-Piracy Movement on the Internet) and VISAPRESS (Management of Media Contents) as well as for suggestions for amending the legislative text, proposed by APRITEL ( Association of Electronic Communications Operators), IGAC and the Superior Council of the Magistratura. Constitutional protection of copyright requires specific regulation of the subject matter in a digital context. The solution presented by the Socialist Party is therefore lacking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, improving, especially after hearing the entities of the sector. The monitoring of the unauthorized dissemination of copyright-protected content on the Internet needs to be strengthened, but it also needs more human and technical means and greater investment by the Government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already announced that the PSD will present amendments and that it will try to make a significant contribution again in this important area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u11	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this digital age it is obviously necessary to find new ways to protect copyright, but always protecting freedom of expression, constitutionally enshrined. In this regard, it is appropriate to clarify the differences between the projects today, here, in discussion. The PCP project is, as many times are the PCP projects, totally out of touch with reality. It ignores European experience in this area and further creates an absolutely unjustified rate, i.e. a tax of 75 cents on Internet service providers. We are left without knowing the rationale of the CFP for the rate, for its value in particular, and what economic impacts it would have. It is therefore obvious that we will not follow this proposal. The PS project is more balanced, but it also raises some doubts, of course, the scope of the term « services or means intended to interfere with the normal and regular functioning of the market for works and services », which will be illegal under this project. Who defines what is 'normal' or 'interference'? Indefinitions at this level will make it possible to prohibit and block abuse. We also echo the concerns of the Advocates' Order, which alerts us to the risks of IGAC to be, and I quote, 'police, judge and carracco' in the planned counter-ordination processes. The Liberal Initiative never likes the concentration of powers and in this case, in particular, when it is the IGAC itself that will receive part of the fines to apply. These are important aspects of this proposal, which we will be able to achieve, and which we would like to see discussed in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u13	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The starting point for this debate I think it must of course be Article 15. that of the Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Era, which we have recently adopted, which enshrines, as it must enshrine, the principle of freedom of creation and protection of content and sets in its paragraph 2, which is precisely the basis for this bill now presented by the Socialist Party, criteria of proportionality, adequacy and effectiveness for measures that can prevent or remove content in manifest violation of copyright. As this is the starting point for me, there is another starting point for which I have had a very tasty discussion, as I have always been with Mr. José Magalhães relatively recently, in which Mr. José Magalhães warned me, and very well for the need to have a regime that had not only as a target what he then called, in a very suggestive way, the 'piles-gallines', but with the robustness enough not to stand for an impediment and a penalty to what he called 'the hens-galls' and that we should therefore have in mind, let us say, the 'thubarons' of this process. I want to point out that it is precisely to understand that Mr. José Magalhães is quite right in this observation that the Left Block has since declared that the project presented by the PCP deserves us agreement, precisely because he has this ambition, and that is what leads us to look at this project with great sympathy. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Magalhães, I would like to say the following: in the hearing of those concerned in this regard, we said, and we repeat again now, that we do not see with good eyes any restrictive vertigo of the sharing of online content, which ignores guarantees in a way that is too light. Therefore, our approach to this issue is precisely that concern which we should deserve, in the light of what Article 15 says. , paragraph 2, of the Charter of Human Rights in the Digital Era, avoid a restrictive vertigo, until this will have a profound impact on the lawful sharing of content. Understanding the problem and the technological challenges to effective protection of copyright, this reflection and this balance do not seem to be sufficiently enshrined in the Socialist Party project. IGAC itself, to whom power and responsibility will be conferred, for which it will hardly have the means, alert, in its opinion, and I quote, « which is not only concerned with the blocking of access via DNS ( domain name service), it appears that the blocking procedure by IP address should be subject to very strict regulation, as it will always be a task to be the subject of strict and safe crisis », in order to avoid what, in that opinion of IGAC, is called the « false positive ». I believe that, in this matter, we have a huge duty to be cautious, so that we do not achieve results that are contrary to what we want. I would also like to draw attention to the opinion of the Court of Intellectual Property, which ensures the adequacy of the project with the process of appeal breaching the regime provided for in the Industrial Property Code. And if it is true that the Court of Intellectual Property has a recognized and strengthened jurisdiction with the creation of an autonomous section in the Court of Relations, the truth is that it does not make any reference, as I believe it was required, to guarantee and to the ability to reverse a wrong decision affecting lawful content made available online, which would require a process and a decision as fast as it is required for the IGAC, but this is not addressed in this project. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, we believe that in the specialized work to which there will most likely be going to be a lot of attention will have to be given to this matter of safeguarding absolutely strict limits for any process or any impeding, prohibitive or removal action.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u15	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u16	I'm done, Mr. President. I'm really done. As I said, we have to pay more attention to this, so that the results are not perverse.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u17	Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to say, on behalf of the CDS-PP, that, in our view, this diploma does not appear as a consequence, but almost as a need for the work we have done here, in committee, when we adopted the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the digital age. At the time, the CDS called for a wide range of hearings that have proved very useful and said that this set of rights should obviously have compensation and balance, so to speak, with the protection of other fundamental rights, such as copyright. And that is basically the issue in this diploma, i.e. the balance between the right of access to these contents, this information, and the fundamental protection of copyright. From that point of view, we welcome the presentation of the diploma. We have already said in debate on the subject that it would be necessary and we have also verified that the Socialist Party's proposal basically meets what has been discussed, either in terms of the European Parliament or in terms of the Council of Europe itself, where there are important reports and issues on the subject. It is clear that the form of withdrawal, the times, the way, all of this can be improved or discussed in the field of specialty, but largely does not have our opposition, on the contrary, has our agreement. But if we follow this initiative, the same cannot be said of the CFP initiative. Mrs Ana Mesquita feels that yes, with her head, and it is normal, there is no surprise in this, as it is evident, since the PCP has a regular reading of property that is not exactly ours and then because, as in many other PCP diplomas, in her statistic view, the PCP seeks the capitalist enemy, holder of the most valuable, and in this case, it has chosen as the holder of the most valuable, that it intends to fight, the Internet service providers. That is where we have to fight against added value and capitalism, in a strict Marxist vision, normal in the PCP. This view, in this case, Mrs Ana Mesquita, in our opinion, has some mistakes, particularly because it is not mandatory for suppliers to have a consequent value for such disclosure and sharing. On the other hand, the PCP also has to realize that not all authors are worthy and extraordinary, such as what was mentioned, for example, by Mr. José Magalhães, and of whom I am particular admirer — Lobo Antunes — but they are not all singers either. That is, who, as authors, are the great beneficiaries of these rights? As a general rule, they are, in technical language, the so-called major producers of American content.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u19	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u20	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, Hollywood and the big American content producers would be the major beneficiaries of the PCP intention. Furthermore, the CFP repeatedly presents this proposal for the fourth time, and it begins to be a little bit of a pirate cassette—almost. It is a repeat tape that begins to be close to the pirate cassette, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u21	It's not the same! I should have read!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u22	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The present debate is in line with what we stand for and reiterate the need for the improvement of the Socialist Party's initiative. In fact, we defend the involvement and hearing of all entities in the sector, because only with the involvement and contribution of all will we be able to achieve balance between the rights in question, combat piracy on the Internet and achieve greater effectiveness, which is fundamental to the monitoring to be carried out by the IGAC. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u24	To close the debate, I think, Mr Magalhães has the floor. I say 'I think' because there are no more entries, but if anyone wants to talk it's time to raise his voice, his fist or his fingers. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have taken a few steps in the right direction and we are quite well-accompanied, since we correspond to a concern which is very shared in the sector to which we are addressing ourselves. We must make this journey without fear, nor easy populism. Our target is the « sharks», no doubt about this, the mercenary broadcasters who, in violation of rights, harm the State and, of course, harm the recipients and the rightholders. We must be careful in the media, without a doubt, but IGAC is not a cop, judge and carracist because its actions are subject to judicial control — and not only — and are transparent. Therefore, in any case that behaved like a wagon, judge and all these horrible things, it would certainly come to newspapers which, with their truly microscopic attention to all that is wrong, would not fail to denounce this and alert to the violation of the law. The law applies with respect to the law. Thirdly, content sharing is regulated in a directive to be transposed here, the Copyright Directive, which has deadline for transposition by 7 June not of 2022, but of 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u26	Yeah, yeah! It's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u27	And it's not just, it's the law of transposition and it's the regulations of transposition, as the directive recalls. It is going to be a hell of a job, there is no doubt - the directive is complex - but it has to be done and it is in this work that we will distinguish various things that have gone through, namely the types of content, forms of intervention, etc. I didn't talk about algorithms, maybe I should have talked about it because, nowadays, the Internet service providers use algorithms to filter the contents that are deposited on servers and this is absolutely essential and is protected by the future...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u28	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u29	I conclude, Mr. President. As I said, this is absolutely essential and is protected by the future regulation on digital services, which will take effect directly, relieving us of a burden of work and completing the legal framework. That is why, Mr President, we are available for this future work and we propose enlargement to sports shows with direct transmission. The benches haven't spoken, but we have time to discuss this. Thank you very much, Mr President, for this effort. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u30	I inform the plenary we have 183 ladies and gentlemen. Members of the House, we therefore have quorum to proceed with any vote, which does not mean that we do not have to check the quorum again when there are votes with certain specificities and needs. We will enter point 2 of our order of business, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 678 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves the complementary legal framework for prevention and combating unauthorized financial activity and consumer protection and 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves a scheme for the prevention of unauthorised activities for the protection of consumer rights. Mr Hugo Carneiro of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD presented on 17 February a bill approving the complementary legal framework for the prevention and control of unauthorized financial activity and consumer protection. over many years the Banco de Portugal and the Committee on the Securities Market ( CMM ) have been warning the public about the performance of persons, companies or fictitious entities who advertise, in the press classifications or on the Internet, the unauthorised marketing of these types of financial products or services, highlighting the cases of the granting of credit or loans with interest due to users or associated with fraudulent schemes; the Forex transaction ( Foreign Exchange Market ), i.e. the conduct of foreign exchange transactions by persons without experience and often encouraged by traders, and pyramid schemes associated with financial products falling outside the scope of ASEA ( Food and Economic Security Authority ). These illegal schemes take advantage of the personal or financial fragility of consumers, so it is urgent to act. The financial system supervisors shall have comprehensive lists and public consultation systems which enable them to confirm that a person or entity is or is not entitled to pursue an activity reserved for the banking, financial or insurance sector. However, such consultation systems have not been sufficient to solve the problem we have identified. The context of the economic crisis has exacerbated this problem, which reinforces the need for a legislative process itself. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current legal framework in this area is merely reactive. Therefore, it is intended to adopt effective measures and instruments in preventing and combating illegal financial activity, proposing the following: amendment of the Advertising Code, so that all advertising promotion and disclosure undertakings through classified ads have the duty to verify whether their financial products or services advertisers are authorised by the regulators for the professional exercise of financial activity. And if these entities are not enabled ads cannot be published. The violation of this duty of consultation is punished with counter-ordination. With a view to combating digital jokes, financial regulators can request the suspension or blocking of websites on the Internet. Moreover, notaries, lawyers and applicants are required to communicate civil mutual contracts and confessions of debts of more than €2500 to Banco de Portugal and there are mandatory references in public records, private documents authenticated or in mere confessions of debt associated with mutual contracts. Finally, a penalty framework is laid down for the violation of the reporting obligations and the crime of qualified disobedience is criminalized for entities refusing to block sites where illegal activity is carried out. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that already after the introduction of our project, the Socialist Party also presented its own initiative, and we therefore welcome this fact, because it demonstrates that a significant part of this Parliament has already recognized the merit of the problem dealt with first on the PSD initiative and for which there was no adequate response. Without prejudice to the different solutions that each party can propose, I think we would give a very strong signal if today we could unanimously approve these consumer protection initiatives. Finally, after hearing the regulators, professional orders, advertisers' representatives and others, it would be very important to be able to approve, in the specialty, the new complementary legal framework for preventing and combating illegal financial activity. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u32	To present the PS bill, Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The prevention of unauthorized or fraudulent financial activity, as well as the protection and protection of consumers, should be a priority of public policies. Recently, the European Commission and the national consumer protection authorities published the results of a European Union-wide analysis on 118 websites proposing consumer credit via the Internet, concluding that more than one third of the websites are in potential violation of the law. Last March, the Banco de Portugal told us that in 2020 there was an increase of 50 % of the number of new open investigations and inquiries in around 350 cases. This is a reality that everyone is concerned about. The law exclusively reserves to duly qualified entities, subject to the supervision of the financial supervisory authorities, the professional exercise of activity in the financial sector, with a broad regulatory framework that we should necessarily take into account. However, we all agree that consumer protection in relation to the provision of unauthorized financial services is not sufficient. It is necessary to create additional consumer protection mechanisms, to make the reaction mechanisms more prompt and speedy and thus to avoid the damage that occurs during the investigation and investigation period. It is in this framework that the PS Parliamentary Group presents this legislative initiative which proposes measures to strengthen the prevention of unauthorised financial activity with a view to protecting consumer rights. It is intended with this bill to create expeditious solutions, with measures that take account of existing regimes and consider the legal system as a whole, adopting a logic of complementarity and strengthening consumer rights. There is a need for timely and risk-based reporting of information associated with certain types of operations; preventive mechanisms for advertising of products or services that may entail unauthorized financial activity are established; it strengthens forms of disclosure of alerts or sentencing decisions issued by the supervisory authorities; it determines the creation of additional duties for notaries, applicants and lawyers; it specifies the duties of cooperation between different public entities; it revises the sanction scheme; it simplifies the forms of denunciation of such activities and establishes a legal framework that enables decisions to remove illicit content and blocking actions on access to sites through which unauthorized financial activities are promoted. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in summary: the operators of the regulated market, the regulatory and supervisory authorities, the operators of platforms and media, the notaries, the lawyers and the public administration in general for this purpose, proposing training and information actions, imposing preventive measures that may pass through the blocking of content, with a very special focus on preventing and preventing the continuity of criminal activity, opening up the possibility of the removal of content and the blocking of electronic sites with fraudulent advertising. All with the central objective and first, the protection of consumer rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u34	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives presented here today have a good intention, which is to defend citizens from fraudulent practices of people or organizations that sell goods and financial services when they are not qualified and take advantage of people's despair or lack of information. The Liberal Initiative considers that the current criminal framework of these illegals is already appropriate, so what is of interest to discuss is, above all, the prevention mechanisms that need to be improved. We support the amendments to the Advertising Code positively, but we can no longer say the same regarding the practical application of the suspension of access to domains on the Internet, which we find particularly problematic. in the same way, we believe that we may encounter various problems, including professional secrecy, when it is intended to set up the « special duty in public writing or certified particular document relating to mutual contracts », or the « duty to communicate the conclusion of civil mutual contracts ». We think it will be important to discuss these diplomas in the field of specialty, and we will therefore make them viable, but we have already left this alert about our reservations on the practical impact of the proposals I have now mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u36	You now have the floor for an intervention by the CDS, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first like to greet both the PSD and the PS who have presented different legal frameworks, it is true, but they have a lot in common. What they want is, above all, to safeguard consumers' rights and defend them from abusive practices, which, in some cases, I would say, are fraudulent and put them in a debt situation, from which it is almost impossible to leave, through entities that are not authorized for this purpose. from the point of view of the objectives of these diplomas, we will make both possible and I think that they may even take unanimity in this Chamber. However, I have some doubts which I would like to see clarified in the field of expertise. The first has to do with the enormous amount of declarative duties these diplomas have to offer. They are not declarative duties for entities that are the authors of these claims, on the contrary, they are declaratory duties for entities where they are publicised and for notaries, lawyers, etc. I have some doubts that this is the best way. I would prefer that there be a framework of objective requirements which would prevent the advertising of such contracts when they are abusive than this myriad of declarative duties. Secondly, I would also like to express some doubts, either as regards the blocking of some websites, or as regards some particular obligations of lawyers and notaries, for matters of professional secrecy. I believe that, with the hearing of a number of representative entities in these sectors and professions in the field of expertise, we will be able to find a technical solution to this, which will allow this legislative framework to enter into force.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u38	Mr Duarte Alves now has the floor for an intervention by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives brought to discussion, the PSD and the PS, relate to a problem that is becoming more and more significant and that has only worsened with the difficult situation that we are currently living in. This is the unauthorized, unregulated, illegal financial activity that drags desperate or naive people into real bottom holes, and pyramid schemes, buying and selling currency, with false guarantees of easy, fast and without leaving home, of new "White Women" that rush through classified newspaper ads, through the depths of social networks and the Internet. The initiatives in question focus on the important issue of the ban on advertising, the duty to refrain from spreading these schemes, placing special duties on lawyers and notaries, and on information to consumers. It is important to implement these prevention measures, but this does not erase the fundamental question: these activities are prohibited. When detected, they must be thoroughly prosecuted and financial supervisors must find the mechanisms to prevent such practices. It may have lacked proactiveness when this is in sight of everyone, in newspapers and on the Internet. We will support the adoption of these initiatives in general, considering that a legislative process should be carried out involving various entities, so that we can reach the best solutions to prevent and combat these unregulated financial activities. We also draw attention to the whole dimension of so-called cryptomodedas and what empowers them in unsupervised financial activity, in financing crime and money laundering. It is not enough for the Banco de Portugal to alert to the risks of cryptomodedas, but also to act that prevents these genuine Ponzi schemes. The times we live in, in which the serious social problems deepen, are pasture for the growth of these activities, which end up leading to ruin those who let themselves be deceived by despair or by the will of easy money, benefiting half a dozen vigarists. This requires a firm fight against these practices, even more important at present. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u40	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, for the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A significant part of the action of the NAP in this and previous legislation has been devoted to the protection of consumer rights in various areas, whether we propose the establishment of the obligation to identify in foodstuffs information on environmental costs associated with their production, that the PS, the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative have plummeted ; whether we propose, in the context of housing credit moratoriums, that interest should not be capitalised in the loan, that the PS, the PS, the CDS, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative are united to plumbar ; whether we are able to approve, by a large majority, a Digital Rights Charter that recognises a number of rights to consumers and new means of protection of these rights; whether we are able to adopt a clarification of the rules applicable to banking commissions in order to end the abusive collection of commissions without any associated counterpart. Finally, we have managed, through the State Budget this year, to put an end to the customer support lines with added value. In all these cases, the compass of the NAP is the defense of the consumer. But also we have never stopped supporting all the proposals that effectively guarantee consumer protection, come from where they come from, and it is consumer protection that deals with the two proposals brought to discussion by the PSD and PS, which, if approved, can create another mechanism that will prevent the practice of fraudulent schemes and other illicit activities that harm citizens in general and the most fragile in particular. in these schemes, certain entities advertise the sale of credit or investment services without being duly authorized by Banco de Portugal or by CMM. These products are fraudulent and, in the interests of consumer rights, efforts must be made to stop their sale. The existing legal framework is generally appropriate. Moreover, in recent years, several have been the alerts of Banco de Portugal and CMVM for these jokes. However, it is necessary to go further, placing ourselves in the prevention mechanisms of these schemes and in the accountability of the entities that advertise and disseminate these services which, later on, translate themselves into ridicule to consumers. We cannot admit that entities that are not qualified to sell credit services can, without impunity, continue to advertise these products and deceive people, consumers. It is necessary to instill a spirit of social responsibility in entities that have the promotion and disclosure of advertising as a commercial activity. Finally, it is important not to forget that the citizens involved in these schemes are particularly vulnerable, with low training and no familiarity, for example, with the possibility of consulting lists of entities authorised by the Banco de Portugal or by the CMVM, so I leave a call to ensure that, without expertise, we together try to see whether there is any way to strengthen the mechanisms for civic training of consumers in this regard, so that they can have more weapons to defend themselves in this kind of ridicule.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u42	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, the worst pyramid schemes, the worst Ponzi schemes, associated with bad commercial practices, were carried out by large legal, legitimate financial institutions. In fact, trust and legitimacy are essential for large-scale fraud. This does not mean that they have recently not proliferated on the market companies or entities that aim to offer credit or investment products in an illegal way. These are already considered illegal by Banco de Portugal and by CMVM, they should not exist, but, due to lack of information, lack of action or lack of an adequate sanction regime, they continue to exist and continue to make victims, which are, as has already been said, the less likely people to interpret the information, thus being more vulnerable to such predatory attacks. in this sense, the position of the Left Block is that everything that is done to improve this legal framework and to protect consumers from the action of these institutions and those entities acting illegally will deserve their support from the Left Block. Therefore, both initiatives will have the support of the Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u44	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing a particularly current case. By 2020 we had 50 % of the increase in new cases of financial insults. But let's see: Portugal is already one of the countries with the most ancillary obligations imposed on entities and in many of these diplomas we do it is to increase the number of obligations to these entities, when we are essentially faced with a problem of lack of means. Let us see: in 2020, one of the worst years of ever financial ridicule, there were 14 new counter-ordination processes — I repeat, 14, were not 140, nor 1400, were 14 ; there were 46 communications to the competent authorities — I repeat 46, in a country with almost 11 million people and with a level of never seen ridicule from the point of view of financial activity — and there were signs of the practice of 69 crimes associated with the development of this type of activity. These figures should at least make us think that these entities need more means, and one of the recommendations that international entities have made is that central banks have preventive teams in view of these activities. More than increasing the number of declarative obligations, we should have preventive specialized teams that combat this type of activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u46	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u47	I will finish, Mr. President. The Banco de Portugal could have had it. This is the opportunity, or it would be an opportunity, to finally train the Banco de Portugal for this type of preventive activity, which is what should happen and what happens in many countries of Europe, with excellent results in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u48	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PS, Mrs Vera Braz.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking all the speeches. They demonstrate that this Parliament is united in defending a right enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the protection of consumers. The projects submitted by the PSD and PS reinforce the consolidation of consumer guarantees and rights with regard to the financial system as a priority pillar for the confidence of citizens and for the stability of the financial system. Although the PS and PSD may differ in the way that follows, it will certainly be improved and uniformed because our goal is common: to safeguard the economic and social interests of our populations. The digital transition, the evolution of new technologies, so important and necessary for the growth and development of our economy and our country, also entail new responsibilities, new challenges and, with them, new risks, to which we cannot be indifferent. We must accompany them and have the ability to respond effectively. We went through a moment of high vulnerability, in the face of the difficulties caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Thus, the offer of seemingly easy and simple solutions is today a renewed danger that we must combat. Every day we are flooded, as has already been mentioned, by advertising that promotes investments or credits, desirable baits for those who find themselves in a more fragile position, in the face of the breakdown of incomes or their reduced financial literacy, thus being more prone to fraudulent situations. It is up to each of us to combat these practices that harm consumers. For the Socialist Party, it is not just about protecting consumers, it is about protecting citizens, their families and society as a community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u50	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still time for debate. I wonder if any Member wants to sign up or if we can move on to the closure of this point, which will be up to the PSD. [[Pause.]] Mr Carneiro has the floor, which, in addition to the time available in the electronic table, has two more minutes to close the debate. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me first express my congratulations on the fact that these two projects, submitted by the PSD and PS, deal with matters that are effectively relevant and should be improved by this Parliament in legislative terms. I'd like to thank all of you. Members who have made speeches on this point and I would like to say that, on our part, as I said in my first speech, we are fully available to improve the diploma in the field of expertise. I would also like to say that the Socialist Party project has matters that are not in the PSD project and that makes sense. I take that, here, clearly. I know that, eventually, in the past, there may have been other diplomas that have generated differences between the parties, including the way each of them voted. But what we are discussing today is a very incisive measure on prevention and combating illegal financial activity. So the appeal I make is that we are all united in this matter, without any doubt and, in this sense, of the interventions I have heard, I have not withdrawn any reservations. In favour of the regulators, I would also like to say that both the Banco de Portugal and the CMVM, or the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds have areas that work on these matters. But what we need to do is provide the system with preventive means that further reinforce the fight against illegal financial activity, something that we have to help resolve and fight. Therefore, the ultimate objective is always the same: to defend consumers, to defend citizens, to defend families and not to allow any person, no company and no fictitious entity to take advantage of the economic or social fragility of any citizen in this country. About that, I think we're all united. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u52	We will move on to the third point of our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of 12 initiatives: Bill No. 657 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary linkage of all teachers with five or more years of service up to 2022, 658 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — The eighth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June, which establishes the recruitment and mobility regime of basic and secondary teaching staff, 659 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Accounting of working time, for social security purposes, of teachers hired at term with incomplete hours and 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Opening of a competition for the extraordinary linkage of teaching staff of technical and artistic components specialized in the exercise of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts, in public educational establishments ( generally) ; Resolution Projects Nos 868 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Reduction of inequalities affecting teachers hired with incomplete hours, 1138 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct a fair competition to value the teaching career and respect the needs of schools and 1140 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Establishment of fair rules for teaching contests, which respond to the needs of schools; Petition No 123 / XIV / 1. a ( Ricardo André de Castro Pereira et al.) — Amendment of the intervals for the examination of teachers, in particular Article 9 ( 8 ). the Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June; Bill No 682 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Extraordinary programme of linkage of teachers with five or more years of service, 761 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Determines the review of the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff and 762 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Programme for the binding of special art teaching techniques teachers specialized in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts (in general) ; and Draft Resolution No 895 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Working time declared to the social security of teachers engaged in part-time work. To present the PCP bills, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP welcomes the petitioners and the thousands of teachers and educators who over the years have struggled tirelessly to defend their rights and who have another scheduled day of struggle for the next Saturday, April 24, at 15 hours, in front of the Cultural Center of Bethlehem. Teachers and educators have always been — and they have been – now, during the confinement periods, in an even more visible way – unreplaceable in the teaching-learning process, playing an essential role in the student follow-up in the classroom. It would be a fair recognition for all this, but the fact is that successive governments have devalued the teaching profession and attacked the rights of teachers and educators, not solving their problems. in this chapter, the current Government of the Socialist Party maintains and chooses not to solve many of the injustices that come from behind, as well as aggravate and even create new problems. Teachers continue to have wage cuts, which are now due to non-time counting; every year thousands of teachers have been waiting to be linked, with about 12,000 teachers and educators with precarious links for 10 or more years of service; they should meet a 35 hours a week, but they are working more than 46 hours a week; many can only access retirement with 45 or more years of service and discounts, in a context where there is a serious crisis due to lack of rejuvenation of the profession. Apart from all this, there is still an unfair competition regime, made of remedies and inadequate to the needs. In the tenders this year, without any change to the existing legal regime, changes have been introduced, not negotiated with the trade unions, in respect of the type of hours to be considered for the purposes of the internal mobility tender and the application of the so-called ‘standard-work’. The government repeated procedures which it applied in the previous legislation to the internal mobility competition, with absolutely harmful consequences for teachers. Many, first placed hundreds of miles from their areas of residence and schools where they usually came in performing their duties, saw, at the second moment, less graduate teachers get placement in schools much closer and for which the first ones had also been candidates. This injustice was only corrected by the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic, which forced the Ministry to end the multi-annuality of all positions obtained in 2017 at internal mobility and to consider all available times within the 2018 competition. We believe that the provision of time exclusively complete is a political option of the Government, not dealing with a legally imposed obligation. Thus, today the Assembly of the Republic has once again an opportunity to correct this injustice because in Article 6. the draft Law No 657 / XIV / 2. the PCP, which proposes the extraordinary linkage of all teachers with five or more years of service up to 2022, states that they are considered in the context of the internal mobility contest all schedules, complete and incomplete. We also propose that the opposition candidates to 1. the priority of the external competition, which comply with the verification of the limit indicated in accordance with the law, shall be guaranteed the placement in the framework of the pedagogical zone ( QZP ), even in cases where they have not obtained the placement of one of the PQPs in which they expressed their preference. It is for the Government to open the vacancies necessary for the fulfilment of the plan and to enter into force on the day following its publication as referred to in Article 6. that of that PCP bill. We also insist on the accounting of working time, for social security purposes, of teachers hired on a term basis with incomplete hours, as proposed in the petition. It is clear that the part-time work scheme does not apply to teachers in terms of term contracts with incomplete hours. But in recent years, schools and social security have misaccounted for the working days of these hired teachers. That is why we propose, through draft legislation — even because there is already a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic to be complied with — that, at the work of the teachers, whose contract the term of resolution foresees work in incomplete hours, corresponds to 30 days of time to be declared for social security purposes. We bring the debate on the opening of competitive procedures for the extraordinary linkage of specialized art teachers in visual arts and audiovisual arts, being automatically linked, according to our proposal, all of those who have more than three successive contracts at annual and complete times, as well as on the opening of a negotiation process with trade union structures for the creation of a specific system of selection and recruitment of teachers in the same area of education. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP argues that the public, free and quality school for all can only exist with qualified, valued teachers, in appropriate numbers and with working conditions to ensure compliance with the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It is therefore necessary to ensure that each permanent job corresponds to an effective link and that employment stability also corresponds to professional stability. The current competition scheme does not guarantee this!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u54	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u55	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we believe that only a national public competition, ordered by a graduated list on the basis of objective and transparent criteria, which evolves towards automatic linkage, through the entry into the tables and, subsequently, in the career of all teachers who perform three years of service, can ensure the stable and dignified functioning of the public school. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u56	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are no teachers in part-time — this is the starting point for the four projects that we bring to debate, which deal with the extraordinary linkage of hired teachers, the linkage of artistic teachers and the unlocking of government inaction that prevents negotiation on the teacher recruitment regime. Let's go back to the starting point. Do students who are accompanied by teachers with incomplete hours should or should not have the same access to education as their colleagues? Yes! Does the role of teachers in education run out in the 45 minutes of class? Don't! So, there are no teachers in part-time! But, in a year of chance, a contractor can pick up a schedule in which he receives less than the minimum wage and which does not give him the right to a full contribution career. Still, you have to go to school every day, probably being displaced and far away from home. Who can organize your life like that? Time intervals and the accounting of the contribution career must be changed out of respect for these workers and because the public school needs them. It is not understood that the Socialist Party is stubbornly committed to keeping injustice inherited from the PSD Government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u58	Sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u59	The current system of hiring, binding and placement of teachers is a blanket of flaps that begins to have more holes, which has three direct consequences: the lack of teachers in schools, the uncertainty about the future of public school and the devaluation of teaching career. It's time to face these problems. The Government's refusal to open negotiations with trade unions to review the recruitment regime of teachers in order to value careers, to allow generation renewal and to admit compensation to displaced teachers may be classified at least as negligent. The numbers draw all arguments: one third of the teachers hired, more than 11 000 precarious, have been teaching for more than 10 years. Many of your students already have a career and they continue, precarious, in school, to win the same as a teacher who has just graduated. Who doesn't see a problem in this, who doesn't listen to anyone, nor does the National Council of Education (NCE), nor the schools, are not able to rule the destinations of the public school. The norm-work, despite improvements, continues to serve to prevent the linkage of thousands of precariouss. The extraordinary ties negotiated with the Left Block went well, but they have to be repeated until the scourge of teacher precariousness is over. Our appeal is clear: that Parliament's voice rises above the government's lack of will in defending public school and in defending teachers. Enough empty promises. This is also a call for the credibility of democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u60	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first word goes to the petitioners who, in their citizenship exercise, challenge and appeal to the Assembly of the Republic to solve the problems that the Government has not yet solved. It is therefore significant that 12 initiatives on the protection of rights and fair claims of the teaching class are under discussion today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the career of teachers has been the target of numerous injustices, in a wide range of chronic problems that cross generations and generations of professionals. This is one of the reasons why less and less young people are attracted by teaching. The report of the National Education Council alerts for the ageing of the teaching staff and for the prospect of retirement of a large number of professionals: 42 000 in the next 10 years, of which 18 000 in the next three. There are many changes needed at this time. We want quality schools, quality government measures that give these professionals the dignity of career they deserve. So I ask, ladies and gentlemen. Members, how many of the present would lead to the back, with energy and dedication, 15 years of work without prospects for career evolution? On average, teachers need 16 and a half years to be bound. Many are over 40 years old, family and financial burdens, but continue to be in a situation of vulnerability and professional instability. How many of the present would leave behind your family and home to go to work? Many teachers stay away from their children to deal with our education, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In 2017, as a result of the change imposed by the government, there were many professionals who were confronted with placements about 200, 300 km from their residence. So I ask again: how many of the present would pay to work? How many of the present would agree to work for a boss who did not listen to his claims or recognize his assets? It takes courage and passion to be a teacher. But the dream is not enough, teachers also need fair policies. In fact, the government has been flagging programmes to combat school failure, but how can it promote success without valuing education professionals? We therefore welcome the common focus of the initiatives brought here today: to draw the attention of the Government to the urgency of action. We follow the measures that seek respect for professional graduation, the speedy linkage of hired teachers, the stability of the tables, the opening of competitive procedures for the linkage of specialized artistic teachers, the reduction of the range of time intervals to competition, among so many other needs that are discussed today. We propose that the House require the Government to review the forms in which it wants to conduct the internal mobility contest, opening them up for full and incomplete hours. The model to which the Government wishes to return, 2017, is harmful to the State, teachers and families. The number of contracts increased and the time for the placement of teachers at the beginning of the school year. This runs counter to the government's argument and decision since it shows that the competitions for teachers, in the current format, do not only bring better financial management, as they do not solve the lack of teachers verified over the past few years, leading to students without teachers for several months. Yesterday, a teacher told us that, year after year, the political measures taken have only been worsening the teaching conditions. For the NAP, the competition regime needs to be revised as a whole and the Ministry needs to step up its way to solve these problems at educational policy level.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u62	To present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens consider that the appreciation of the teaching career is essential to give consistency to the profession, respect its professionals and dignify the public school. The truth is that what has happened over the years is exactly the opposite, with the spread of precariousness, the non-rejuvenation of the teaching body and the lack of teachers in sufficient numbers for the needs of schools. We have witnessed the discrediting of the teacher's profession. We remember well how the teachers were greatly damaged because they had not seen the recovery of all time of service for the purposes of career progression. We know how these professionals were affected in the sum of their hours of work, between educational and non-lethal components. We have repeatedly stressed, in this House, the injustice of the recurrent relocation of many teachers to distant places, without any kind of compensation, paying to be able to work and unfortunately every year teachers are the target of an unfair competition regime. These are just a few examples of how teachers' demotivation is promoted and contribute to disqualifying the teaching career when it is, after all, essential to the development of any society. With regard to the competitions for the placement of teachers, what has happened is that they have not responded to the problem of lack of teachers in schools, do not contravene the existing precariousness and promote various injustices in the established selections, taking into account the criteria used. These competitions, in certain circumstances, lead to problems of non-respect for the professional graduation of teachers. In internal mobility, only full hours are considered, leading many teachers to be relocated away from their homes. The norm-work, in turn, obliges the teachers hired for binding purposes to compete for all teaching area frames, on the ground that they are not allowed to be placed. What is happening is a tremendous injustice with teachers, an injustice that does not solve the problems of schools or the problems of the stability of teachers and their proximity to residence. As the ENP has argued, it would be fair, on the one hand, for competition rules to be based on negotiations with trade union structures and not on the imposition of unfair rules on the part of the Government and, on the other hand, on a proposal for a national tender, ordered by a graduated list, on the basis of well-defined and objective criteria. Thus, the Greens today present an initiative which recommends to the Government that it create the conditions for collective bargaining with a view to revising the current tendering procedure, considering a proposal for a national competition ordered by a graduated list, and that it enables all framework teachers to compete for all open vacancies. It is necessary to eliminate the norm-work, allowing the placement of teachers who do not apply for all teaching area frames and, in a fair way, linking the teachers hired with more than three years of service. They are measures to establish justice, possible to execute, which will not only be approved here if those who say they die of love by the teachers once again give the saying by the non-said, and which will not be carried out only if the government, at all, does not want to. He's got the means to do this. We need to respect the teachers. I will finish this speech by greeting the petitioners. The Greens address from here a solidarity embrace to all teachers who will manifest themselves in Lisbon next Saturday. The struggle and action of teachers have been the stairway of defense of public school and the country also has this to thank you. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u64	It is the time of the PSD to present its draft resolution. You have the floor, to that end, Mrs Carla Madureira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The shortage of teachers and their unequal and asymmetric distribution across the national territory are the result of the aging of the teaching population and the stay in the profession, the shortage of enrolments in the initial training of teachers and result in increasing difficulties in recruiting hired teachers. There are more and more hours left to be filled, making it impossible for many students to have classes, in some disciplines, for long periods. The PSD follows the analysis under discussion today, made by the subscribers who are here, and who we greet, and who request the adoption of measures with a view to changing the intervals at the invitation of teachers. In 2018, the Social Democratic Party presented a draft resolution recommending the harmonization of school procedures regarding the calculation of working days to be declared for social security purposes. Curiously, it was adopted with the abstention of the Left Block and the PCP and votes against the Socialist Party. Today we will discuss and vote on several initiatives that address the questions of the precariousness of teachers and, among them, the Draft Resolution No 895 / XIV / 2. a, of the Social Democratic Party. Under the rules of the competition, there are situations of arbitrariness within the same interval. It is not up to the candidate to choose to compete at a time when more working days will be counted for social security purposes or to take a higher salary. The system of distribution of school hours, based on very extended time intervals or with few hours of lecture submitted to the competition, leads to the construction of unattractive teaching hours. As a result, there are no candidates and students are left without classes, in some cases, throughout the school year, as has happened repeatedly since this government took possession. The lack of teachers and the needs of each school should create the possibility of more hired teachers competing for different types of hours, and may be a more-valid for the system and benefiting schools, students and teachers. These are the prerequisites for our recommendation to the Government to rethink the way in which the accounting of hours of service of teachers hired for social security purposes and to ensure that teachers know, when competing, how many days will be declared to social security; reduce the length of hours to tender in order to minimize differences within the same interval in terms of salaries, working time and working days declared to social security; ensure that teachers are counted in a fair and proportionate manner every day of work with a term of employment declared to social security services. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rejuvenation of the teaching body is essential, it is crucial to dignify the conditions of the professional exercise of teachers and to support the degradation of the quality of teaching. PSD is available to build bridges, enable consensus, build solutions that meet the needs of the country and its real problems. However, and unlike the message and the inflamed discourses of the benches on our left, of some unions and movements, the unlocking of this file is not in the hands of the PSD. Just as the Government assumes it, even by the request for successive supervision which it made to the Constitutional Court following the approval in 2018 of the specific scheme for the selection and recruitment of teachers, the famous Law No 17 / 2018 is its "decision" sphere and does not abdicate it. Moreover, the Government considers that Parliament's interventions in matters involving the recruitment of teachers invade the core of the government's administration reserve with regard to its powers of oversight over direct administration. So— Caesar what is Caesar's! — it is within the competence of the Government, it is in their hands and in the hands of the Socialist Party, to find measures to dignify the exercise of teaching. It is about this ministry that goes on its sixth year of guardianship of education, which rests the solution. He is a minister who does not negotiate with the unions and who, stubbornly, does not seek consensus on this structural problem, not only of the education system, but of the Portuguese society, and who will soon have serious problems finding teachers. After all, what is the minister waiting for? It is that propaganda will not solve this problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u66	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u67	Mr President, I thank you very much, but I did not sign up to speak on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u68	Mr President, I beg your pardon, there has been an excessive delay on the part of the Bureau. Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention. Did you sign up?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u69	I signed up, yes, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These projects that bring us here, especially the PCP, and that mark this schedule about the lack of teachers in schools, the devaluation of teaching career and the precarious teaching, all unmistakable realities and also intractable in recent years, and with which we have to deal, reveal as well as the need for the appreciation of our teaching, not only of public education, but of teaching in general. But where was the PCP when, in 2018, António Costa said «We never made the commitment to recomposing and recovering the history of teachers »? Where was the PCP, which valued the State Budget this year?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u70	Making a proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u71	Where was the PCP, in 2016, when António Costa suggested Portuguese teachers to emigrate? And made it possible for the State budget! But more: while welcoming the petitioners, while welcoming the unions, the CFP forgets the words of the President of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) who said: « This budget for 2021 does not value education, forgets teachers and is a pity for our teaching». And what did the PCP do? He valued and made it possible for the Socialist Party to budget! Therefore, it is worth bringing here proposals that know they will not pass in this House and continue to hand over to the Socialist Party, always, once again, Budgeting behind Budget, to destroy the education and life of our teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u72	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u73	What good is it to make proposals, to greet the petitioners, if, when October and Antonio Costa arrive again threatening to leave the scene, the gentlemen there come, as always, to give them their hand, saying, "We are here for what is necessary"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u74	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u75	I shall conclude, Mr President. Be courageous: when your proposals do not make it possible, the Budget will fall! That is how democracy should be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u76	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a set of 11 initiatives and a petition. It's another sprint to deal with structuring themes in the education sector in just a few minutes and, to do so, I'm going to try to add these initiatives to four themes. The first set has to do with the extraordinary contest to link the teachers of the technical and artistic components of the schools António Arroio and Soares dos Reis. This subject is recurrent, these teachers have a set of specific competences, which they also exercise in schools with characteristics and with a specialized nature, which exercise them permanently year after year and should have been included in the general contest. Not so, the PCP and the Left Block bills raise the issue, it seems to us, correctly and will have our vote in favour. The second set, which accompanies the petition, whose petitioners we greet, has to deal with an attempt to solve the problems of counting working time, for the purposes of social security, of teachers hired with incomplete hours. We understand and recognize that there are issues to be resolved here, such as the extent of the timeframe for the competition, but we understand that this is a matter of government action, so we will make it possible for the proposals that safeguard this allocation. It follows a series of initiatives that propose an extraordinary link between all teachers, in one case, three years, in another, five or more years of service. these initiatives are never mentioned as « students », « demography », « evaluation », « quality » or « merit ». In the background, what they propose is a kind of untracked highway, without speed limits, which, of course, we will not follow. Finally, we have a set of projects on the review of the teacher's recruitment and mobility regime. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, perhaps, the most complex matter not only of the labour dimension of education, but also of the whole Public Administration. It is not up to Parliament, and much less so, to deal with this in any way. Of course, in the current table, there are issues to be reviewed, such as—and it is also a recurring matter—the misappropriate internal mobility competition, which has already been signalled by the CDS, having approved draft resolutions in other discussions. We also agree that the subject of competitions is a critical matter, but it cannot be dealt with in a way that breaks the initial training, other decrees that make up the reality of school, such as curriculum flexibility and inclusion, and cannot be undermined by the autonomy of schools themselves. We cannot spend our lives saying that we want differential educational projects so that, then, teachers are assigned equally, in any way, without any further criteria. So we are not going to follow these projects, of course, under the penalty of they only serve themselves and not be careful for the good educational service of the school, which is what we should be doing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Silvia Torres of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are considering a petition and various projects that focus on various aspects of the teaching career, of great importance for the quality of public education. Let us start with the question of accounting for the working time of teachers who have been hired to an end with incomplete hours for social security purposes. Without a doubt, the registration of 30 working days, for a greater number of situations, would mean strengthening the protection of workers, which is desirable, and that is where we want to evolve, without prejudice to the fact that the value of future benefits always reflects the value of contributions. However, the adoption of a special scheme would introduce an element of injustice between professions, even in school space, which would not be justified. We understand that it is necessary to look at the contributory legal relationship cross-sectionally, particularly in the declaration of working time. In fact, we stress that as early as 2018, the government has been paying attention to this issue by introducing more favourable rules. It is in this cross-sectional weighing framework that the declaration of working time of the teaching class should be looked at, with proportionality, justice and balance, without introducing undesirable remedies in the structural coherence of social security. With regard to the set of proposals on the recruitment of teachers, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group reaffirms its commitment to evolution to a model that further advances in the appreciation of the work of teachers and the teaching career, a model that combats precariousness and promotes stability in the professional exercise, the stability of schools and educational projects and responds sustainably to the needs of the country and communities. We have never been distracted by this need. It is up to the Government Programme to study and improve the model of recruitment and placement of teachers. It was on the initiative of the PS that Parliament asked the NEC to study the matter, even in the previous legislation. The long pandemic situation, which has marked this legislation, has not yet allowed decisive progress in this area, but we believe that the government will carry out its programme and it is our firm commitment to ensure that such progress takes place. But one thing is certain: in the year of so-called 'great contests', with the contests to be held, it is essential to preserve stability and it is necessary for the next school year to open in time and time and with all the means necessary for the public school to continue to give the magnificent answer it has given in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u80	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u81	To introduce now, with the invitation to tender, modifications to the extraordinary rules or links would be to change the framework of expectations each teacher considers when defining its position in relation to the contest and the options it takes in view of the development of its career. in this contest there are only two specific changes resulting from the resolution of judicial proceedings that were pending. Firstly, the question of applying the norm-work, where the result of judicial proceedings prevents the administration from placing a teacher where he does not manifest preference. The guarantee of filling the vacancy generated by the teacher who had generated it existed in the procedure previously followed by the administration, but this guarantee is now no longer possible, which is why, when competing, candidates are informed of the options they have and their meaning. What can not be, nor disregard the judicial decision, nor empty the norm, which is a norm against precariousness, because precariousness is not an option. Secondly, we have the question of full and incomplete schedules, which have been, in justice, certain abusive interpretations. If we want, as it is quite true and demonstrated that we want to strengthen the investment in the teaching body of the public school, because teachers are the main factor in promoting educational success for all, we have to make the best organizational options of the system. That is where the necessary priority should be given to the full hours. Good management options are not to spend less, good management options are to invest more and invest better. What makes it possible to strengthen the teaching body of the public school is the government's determination to invest there, as happened, even in the previous legislation, with the great reinforcement of contract for the National Plan for the Promotion of School Success, as happened, this school year, with more than 3300 full-time equivalents of teaching in non-higher education. Once again, on the question of full hours, we must preserve the framework of expectations with which the contests started, not wanting to change what has been known since August last year. In conclusion, we can reaffirm that the recruitment contest model is not the ideal, no. We need more stability for schools, teachers and students. But this particularly difficult year, we need, more than ever, a school year that begins in time and time and with the greatest normality possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u82	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the teachers and teachers who on April 24 will be on another day of struggle. I also greet the petitioners. The draft law presented by the Block of the Left, concerning a program for the linkage of special technical teachers of artistic education specialized in the areas of visual arts, aims to create an extraordinary contest for these teachers. Who are they? They are teachers of the Arroio School, in Lisbon, and of the Soares School of Kings, in Porto, and for decades they have formed young people in different areas of artistic expression. However, despite decades of training artists in different artistic and professional areas, in high-research courses and with quality tests, the Ministry of Education continues to create barriers to the linkage of these teachers who meet all the conditions to enter the career. The extraordinary linkage arose two years ago for about 30 teachers. The rest were waiting for an ordinary contest that never opened and no extraordinary contest was held. About 40 teachers see their lives postponed, year after year, even knowing that they are permanent needs of the system and contradicting the European Union's recommendation to reduce precariousness in Portuguese teachers. From now on, the solution will be the opening of an extraordinary binding invitation for teachers with three or more successive contracts. Follow-up will be a binding programme which aims to create the system of selection and recruitment of special, artistic and specialized teachers, according to the permanent needs of schools and, of course, trade union bargaining. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u84	I ask the parliamentary groups that still have time to sign up for someone else to intervene in the debate or if we can move on to the closing stage. [[Pause.]] Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD intends to intervene. Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u85	Mr President, it is really just to give a final note. After six years of the governance of this ministry, we are here again talking about something that could have been resolved — and no, it is not for the PSD to solve this problem. Strangely, we see the left-wing parties making budgets viable, but without putting this matter in the fundamental decision to approve them, as we have seen. It is important that the Ministry of Education and the minister turn to what is important and stop whispering to the side. Teachers really demand more respect! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u86	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u87	Mr President, it is in front of the petitioners and teachers who are attending the session today that we appeal to the PSD, which has played once again with the rights of teachers in Parliament, so that it will not do so again. [[PSD protests.]] We have projects that are of primary justice for precarious teachers, with incomplete hours, so that they are told enough discounts to access a whole reform. It is enough for the PSD to vote in favour and endorse this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u88	Talk to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u89	We have a project for the government to negotiate a new recruitment and mobility regime with teachers, according to some rights and with career appreciation—it is enough for the PSD to approve it. We have a project on extraordinary linkage of teachers—just the PSD vote is enough to be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u90	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. It would not be the first time that Parliament would impose its voice on the Government's stubbornness in refusing to negotiate with teachers and trade unions about their rights. We have left this appeal: let Parliament raise its voice in defense of teachers and in defense of public school! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u92	We shall now turn to the end of this debate. For this purpose, by the PCP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Well, I want to say that some were still in diapers and we were already here defending the rights of workers, particularly teachers and educators. [[PCP applause.]] If some don't remember where the PCP was, to lack of memory, we replied that the best tablet for this evil is our history and the records, which are even public, of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic. Please consult! [[PCP applause.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, regarding what she asked about the PCP competition project, we must point out that this project has already come here, had extensive debate in the Assembly of the Republic, with hearings from multiple entities and receiving multiple opinions. There was a unanimous position on the amendments that we proposed, because they are very relevant and because we must not waste this opportunity, so there is no argument for the CDS not to come up with the game on this subject unless, of course, it does not want to solve the problems we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u94	Not the way you propose!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u95	Mrs Silvia Torres, on social security discounts, is very sad that the PS insists on the wrong view of fighting part-time, regulated by the law of work in public and social functions or by the Labour Code, with incomplete schedules that are regulated by the Statute of the Teaching Career. It is clear that in this matter, the recommendations will fall into a broken bag! So we say the following: more than draft resolutions, it is necessary, in draft laws, to respond to what is put here. Some of you. Members have referred to this issue and we say that this is an opportunity, with the proposal of the CFP, for this to happen. Moreover, Mrs Deputies, it is worth demonstrating, in relation to the preference in competition for only full hours in internal mobility — I have moved on to another subject — that this is the most advantageous option, as you said here. The PS is not counting on something very concrete in the damage that is the discontent of thousands of teachers and educators and the instability that this generates in the system. This is not, in fact, an easy-to-account damage. Again, Mrs. Carla Madureira, we will even vote in favour of the PSD resolution project, but it is seen that, with the declarations made here by the Socialist Party, it will not forward anything that the project is approved. So that's not what solves the problem! What would effectively resolve this is the initiative presented by the CFP here and which should, in fact, count on the votes so that these issues can be overcome. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u96	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u97	This is the challenge we have left. They vote in favour of the four proposals that we have put forward and which, in particular, solve many problems of thousands of teachers and educators in our country. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u98	Mrs. Members, let us now move on to the fourth item on the agenda, of which is the assessment of Petition No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( Luís Miguel de Melo Torres Marques et al.) — Together with local accommodation, together with, in general, Law Projects Nos 785 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Alter the scheme for the authorisation to operate local accommodation establishments( 5 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ), 786 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Decreases the coefficient of local accommodation ( Change the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ) and 788 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — eliminates tax increases in local accommodation. Let us, then, start this debate. To present the draft laws of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u99	Today are 2 minutes liberal!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners here present, who subscribe to the petition « Together for local accommodation », which must perceive as little as I have seen the constant attack that has been directed in recent years to the sector of local accommodation, which, for ideological reasons, are understood. Without local accommodation we would not have witnessed an unprecedented rehabilitation of Portuguese cities, especially their historic centers, whose state of degradation was recognized by all. Moreover, it has enabled the diversification and growth of tourism demand which has contributed both to Portuguese economic growth and to the generation of thousands of jobs. In the three years preceding the pandemic, the Socialist Government has changed the local housing rules three times and always in order to aggravate the situation of the sector's entrepreneurs. It should be said that the socialist principle of 'if you move, you charge' applies in practice. The rise of the local housing income coefficient in containment areas of 0, 15 % to 0, 50 % had as its sole aim to fiscally asphyxiate businessmen in the sector, attempting to force them to integrate affordable lease programs, something that has only happened residually. In view of the current parliamentary configuration, it is not foreseeable that it will return to the 2016 regime, as it would be desirable. However, in view of the country's economic situation and the absolute need to recover the tourism sector, we must at least reverse the most recent fiscal worsening by again setting the tax coefficient at 0, 35. This change is necessary and fair, until the remaining providers of accommodation, restoration and similar services retain the tax coefficient of 0, 15. Our other bill includes small amendments to solve various problems with the practical application of the expiry regime of the opening title to the public. This scheme is unfair since, in the containment zones, the only case where the title of opening to the public does not expire with the transmission of the title is that of succession. So, for example, if a holder, a natural person, wants to set up a company and pass the registration of the local accommodation to that company, he cannot do so. Similarly, in the case of divorce, if spouses, even by common agreement, want to change the ownership of the property, they cannot do so. These are unacceptable inequalities in an important sector for Portugal, and this Parliament has an obligation to try to correct them already.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u101	Mr. João Pinho de Almeida is already positioned as the one who intends to present the CDS-PP bill. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, whenever there was talk about the Portuguese economy, especially before the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, tourism as an engine for the country's economic recovery has been mentioned. This economic recovery was essentially due to the initiative of many entrepreneurs who invested in order to effectively have this development, but also had, on its basis, an approach to a government that, by recovering the country from the crisis, realized that it was necessary to give tourism the space and freedom that this sector needed to be able to be that engine. What happened next? First, it happened that tourist development went well and then came a socialist government. Having come a socialist government, what has happened—it has already been said—it was the general principle of socialism: as tourism mexia, it has taxed itself; as tourism continued to move, it has settled. Only when the most dynamic sector of our economy needed to be subsidized was it not because it was not possible to develop itself, to assert itself and to have a return, but because, by fighting against the rates and regulations of a socialist government, obviously, it was strangled. But in this case, we are not talking about the whole tourism sector. We are talking about some of the absolutely innovative tourism sector, either from the point of view of supply or from the point of view of the ability that families and small entrepreneurs have to give themselves the opportunity to engage in economic activity, to invest, to create wealth and, above all, something that is socially important, that is to create jobs and look for other economic activities that, through local housing, have also had a huge development. For example, one of these activities, whose modality of support we often discuss here, is traditional trade. In many historic areas, traditional trade has had a huge boost through local housing. Also in the interior and in many areas of the country, the local housing allowed a dynamic that otherwise would not have been possible, because obviously, even with tourist investment, there was no size for this return. We therefore believe that it is incomprehensible what has happened in recent years, first of all, with the regulation. It was sought to make it difficult to invest in local housing and even transmission, as we have already said, and the creation of new local housing so that there were no more than those that already existed and gradually ceased to exist those that existed. It is incomprehensible, I repeat, it is incomprehensible, from the point of view of economic activity, from the point of view of job creation, from the point of view of the dynamics that local housing has managed to give to depressed areas of the country, whether in historical centres or in the interior. This means that whoever defends the dynamization of the interior, who defends the recovery of historic centers, who defends urban rehabilitation, who defends economic development then ends up killing one of the sectors that showed the greatest dynamics to achieve all these objectives. Therefore, the CDS brings a very clear project, which is just a beginning of reversal of the attack made to local accommodation. It is proposed that taxation, based on IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and IRC (tax on income of legal persons) be again what it was, that taxation, within IRS and IRC, be again what it is for other areas of the same sector, i.e. that we return from the 0, 50 which at this time apply to what was previously in force, i.e. 0, 35. Let this be just a first step, but let it be a first step towards the recognition of the dynamics of local housing, for the recognition of all those who have invested in it, for the recognition of all those who work in this. Those who advocate the enhancement of the interior, the recovery of historic centers, urban rehabilitation and economic dynamisation must recognize that they cannot continue to attack local housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u103	You have the floor for the PS, Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to congratulate the signatories of the petition that we are now discussing. Today we discuss a petition and three bills, two of the Liberal Initiative and one of the CDS. They relate to local housing and to facilitating the transmission of these businesses, as well as to the tax obligations associated with them. to the petitioners we want to say that nothing moves us, not the PS, not the government, against its purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u105	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u106	We recognize the merit of entrepreneurship and understand the life projects associated with its objectives. We want to say that we are and we will be attentive to your problems and your demands. We are well aware of the difficulties that this sector, as well as various sectors of our economy, is experiencing right now. The Government's effort to minimize the negative effects of the pandemic we live in has been a great deal and must continue, to the extent possible and sustainable by the country's finances. But when we talk about the measures envisaged in the areas where local housing is contained, those that have been designated by the existence of large agglomerations of this type of accommodation and with enormous difficulties of access to housing by many Portuguese people, we have already talked about something else. We respect the interests of those who have chosen this activity, but we cannot completely disregard the housing interests of those who need to live in our cities. These divergent interests must be harmonised. We need to find a balance where none of these conflicting values are sacrificed. Discussing the problems of local accommodation and the problems of separate housing is easy. Unfortunately, this is what some parties represented in this House have done. As I said, making this discussion this way is easy, but it's not serious. We cannot come one day to this House saying that we want to solve and facilitate local accommodation and, on another day, to say that there is a problem in access to housing and that this problem must also be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u107	You never heard me say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u108	at this time, in some areas of the country, especially in the so-called containment areas, these two perspectives have to be addressed together. It should also be noted that, over the years, the Government has approved a set of support measures for this sector, as an example : the possibility of option for taxation in accordance with the rules laid down for category F of IRS; it is not considered to be more valuable, within the framework of category B of IRS, the transfer to the particular estate of the entrepreneur of residential real estate which is immediately affected by obtaining income from category F; the suspension of taxation of the excess value of category G due by the refund to the particular property of housing previously affected by obtaining income from category B, if the same is true of obtaining income from category F, while maintaining this assignment; the deferment of taxation of capital due to the loss of private property property property of the individual business and professional activity exercised by its owner at the time of its disposal. However, the amendments that have been made and which are contested here today are based on the need to strengthen the tax applicable to local housing in the containment areas, i.e. in areas where it is increasingly difficult to live. Still, today it is even more expensive to rent traditional housing. The reversal of the change would be contrary to public housing policies and would mean a backwardness in the Housing Bases Act and in the New Housing Policy Generation ( NGPH). Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing moves us against local accommodation, we just want to frame this activity with the effective possibility of the centres of our cities can continue to be inhabited by whom they have always lived. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u109	Yeah, when everything was falling, it was good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u110	For the PSD, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin by complimenting the petitioners in the person of Mr. Luís Miguel de Melo Torres Marques, and this is a petition presented to the Assembly of the Republic in the discussion of the 2020 State budget, as a reaction to the measures envisaged there. I remember that the PSD has, in due course, also reacted to such a proposal for aggravating the taxation of local accommodation by the proposal that the Government was presenting to us. The PSD remains concerned about this subject, with a tax which is unjustifiably penalizing those who helped to recover some historical centers. A tribute that worked as a punishment, a punishment to whom it contributed to recover returned buildings and in ruins, a punishment to whom it helped to give a new life to previously abandoned streets and find new solutions for tourists. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u112	It is undeniable this contribution and the range of options that, from then on, Portugal has become available to tourists. We are available to discuss the subject of taxation at any time. This could even be an excellent time, because it is a time when the tourism sector needs measures to resume the economy. However, we do not ignore the difficulties of making tax reductions outside the discussion of the State budget. Therefore, the PSD believes that the discussion of taxation of local housing income can be shifted if we only see it as a reduction in taxes. The discussion should go through a series of measures, including tax measures, which mitigate the impact of adjustments that are necessary, measures and incentives that come into line with some of the proposals presented in the draft law of the Liberal Initiative. But such solutions, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these proposals are not exhausted. We understand that the local housing scheme deserves intervention in order to enhance tourism. But this cannot be done without a strict knowledge of the results of the regime that has been in force since 2014, considering the 2018 amendments. These results must be raised, particularly in the areas of containment. The legal regimes, sirs. Members, they are not immutable and must adapt to reality, they must undergo adjustments and corrections. But there is one thing that companies and people need, today more than ever: stability in legal solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u113	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u114	And in order to change legal solutions, in order to correct deficiencies, we must monitor. And that's something the government never does. What monitoring of local accommodation has the government done so far? What were the impacts of the local housing regime? The creation of containment areas, Mr. Have you had any positive results, or have you previously had the perverse effect of creating problems in the border areas of these areas of containment, contributing to inflating the price of buildings? Has there ever been a study, particularly compared with the regimes of other countries, Europeans and not only? What were the impacts, for example, of the coexistence between tourists and residents, the effects on the local economy, the consequences for combating tax evasion? Mr Hugo Oliveira, the local accommodation cannot be discussed only at home compared to housing. The legal regime of local accommodation requires a licence and is not said anywhere to be a housing licence. In fact, I remember that there is even case-law in the opposite sense. And I ask again: did you monitor yourself? How? What are the criteria? Who did it or should it? Nothing has been done at this level! We are sure that nothing has been done, so it is urgent to understand which state of the art of local accommodation in Portugal, since 2014. Any change in the current regime, to exist, without any previous follow-up, will have to be surgical and always facilitating and enhancing the development of the sector. And you will obviously not forget the balance needed to achieve the development of cities with regard to tourism, housing, trade and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u116	I shall conclude by saying that cities must be looked at as a whole, where the inhabitants, the residents of the cities, tourism, the economy, trade and services will live together, and local housing must necessarily be part of this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u117	You now have a word for an intervention by the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 10 000 petitioners who have brought us to the debate today and who have mobilized themselves for the local accommodation, starting precisely by recalling that Portugal, before the health crisis, was assumed as a tourist destination of election, in particular, to the global level, which is deeply linked to the issue of local accommodation, having even reached the impressive number of 27 million tourists. These data are not misleading for the debate, given that the local housing itself was also affected by the COVID-19 and by the effects of pandemic and confinement, which have shown how fragile and volatile the tourism sector can be — something for which the NAP has long been alerted — and, of course, also the sectors that are related to it. Thus, a majority bet based on unplanned tourism may also be wrong, to the detriment of desirable diversification in value-added productive activities, including those based, for example, on technological innovation and environmental sustainability. As the immediate advantages of increasing tourism demand for our country, particularly at the level of the economy and job creation, have been unquestionable, there have also been several adverse effects of the lack of integrated planning that has characterized various governments in this and other areas. As a result of these serious gaps, we have been exponentially increasing pressure in areas such as housing, mobility, air quality and, still, on natural resources. We know that this was also one of the effects of local accommodation. But the whole currency has its reverse, and that is precisely why, for the NAP, it is essential to realize that, being the local accommodation strongly linked to tourism, we have to look at it in a perspective of knowing the reality in the different areas of the country. For the NAP, tourism should be seen as an opportunity among others and not as « the » opportunity, which is why we have long argued that the assessment of the impact of tourism in our country cannot be reduced to the financial weight it has in GDP ( gross domestic product ). We advocate, yes, an economic model which does not place the country as a hostage to a sector and which ensures, yes, sustainable development, taking into account its impact on the quality of life of populations, the preservation of ecosystems and the efficient use of resources and their circularity. in this sense, we have long defended the conduct of a study of tourist load capacity of the different municipalities, particularly in those who have higher tourist pressure, so that the same errors are not made to evaluate only after everything has gone wrong. It is precisely at this point that another issue arises with local accommodation. over time, we have witnessed the worsening taxes on local accommodation and the creation of containment areas, leaving behind the impact of the hotel units themselves, which often occupy whole blocks, having not been provided the same tax burden for the latter, even if they are located, for example, in areas of high environmental sensitivity. At the same time, we have not yet come to a study which characterises both the local accommodation and the hotel establishments, particularly the latter, which have been authorised by the coastal shore and which destroy the habitat. Thus, in the view of the NAP, and to conclude, we need to know whether companies own one or more hotels and where they are located, along with local accommodation; whether they will be, for example, local accommodation second houses and whether they will hardly, or not, help to solve the problem of housing at an affordable price; if, between local accommodation and hotels, some have been able to do works using funds, and out there, to get to know, clearly, the fabric of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u119	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u120	I really am concluding, Mr President. in this sense, we need studies, which are urgent, before taking this step. We will be fully available to work on the proposal of the Liberal Initiative to amend the operating authorisation scheme and will abstain from the remaining proposals until such time as these data exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u121	You now have a word for intervention by Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking the petitioners. This is not the first time, and it will not be the last time, the citizen participation and the organized sectors — which is important — which alert them to what they consider to be economic injustice. However, this petition is not currently available. Some of the proposals were met by the Socialist Party already in the State Budget for 2021, such as the case of capital gains. And it is precisely this example that shows that the desired changes did not want a more just, available and welcoming city of those who live here and want to rent a long-term housing. It was also with this argument that a request was made for the withdrawal of the minimum period of five years of rent to move from local accommodation to another situation of use, without the payment of capital gains, and that has not been effective. contrary to what was said, in order to reverse this housing and ensure the social function assigned to it — the housing — it is indeed necessary to ensure housing measures. Furthermore, it is not understood that much of the owners are prejudiced by their claim to have a more favourable regime so that they can opt for a sector which, having been the so-called salvation table in the previous crisis, is now the weight that causes the country to sink. Our dependence on tourism is what makes us more vulnerable at the moment to the social crisis that deepens and the housing emergency that we know and intensifyes. To expect tourism to take us out of this situation of economic dependence, without learning from what was so exposed, is simply to dig a deeper hole, dig inequalities, exclusions, shortcomings. And the situation in which we find ourselves shows that we will have to look at our cities, their diversity and their inhabitability in another way. Local housing, because it is an activity that develops where people could live, has an added responsibility and must be mobilized precisely to ensure this transformation that saves the homes and the lowest incomes, it is true that they can be guaranteed in the lease. Local housing cannot thus be excused for the responsibility it has in the lack of building availability for rent and has a crucial role to play in combating the housing crisis and ensuring that everyone living in Portugal has income and housing according to the social standard. Leaving the accommodation empty or in unstable contracts, for months, is an exploration of the fragility of those who need a living space, which is not acceptable at a time of global crisis as we live. We know that local housing has had a more favourable, illegal tax treatment for a long time. We also know the imbalances that this created. We also know that other cities in other countries have already corrected this mistake, and even more powerful and long ago. It also led to a fragile rehabilitation, based on assumptions of speed and ease, which the exceptional regime for urban rehabilitation allowed. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has also led to evictions in the centres of our cities, particularly in Lisbon and Porto. And it didn't even guarantee seismic accessibility or security. He didn't guarantee life. And we now see, during the period of confinement, that cities such as Lisbon and Porto are deserted, without people to take the hygienic walks, without people to attend the merceries, without people to inhabit these rehabilitated houses. It is time to reverse all this and ensure that housing and cities respond to what they are: spaces to live. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u123	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We need to understand the country we have right now. And when we say that it is not understood that these owners want to have adequate treatment, that is not understanding, nor understanding the importance that tourism can have in the economic recovery in Portugal. How can we tell these men and women, some of whom left investments that they had to invest in our cities, "they paid, but now we don't want anything with you"? How can we say that cities are deserted, when those who had been down in Lisbon for 15 years saw that it was completely deserted, without tourists, without anyone, to make life in this city? Now they complain of speculation and of those who destroy cities, but it was better to have cities without anyone, no tourism, no housing, absolutely nothing? Oh, my God! It is very curious that we want to penalise those who in recent years have paid a bunch of taxes—and for whom, last year, we have even created a new tax, after we have ended the gains— telling them now'safe as they can'. It is a good example of how we treat those who invest, who want to work, who want to create income and wealth in Portugal. It is a terrible example of how we treat those who want to help Portugal and the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u125	For the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, allow us to greet the micro and small entrepreneurs and all the subscribers of this petition, entitled « Together for local accommodation ». These approximately 10 000 citizens addressed this House, exposing their opposition to the amendments which were then put in place - and which were to be approved - in taxation legislation, in respect of local housing establishments located in containment areas. This petition was submitted to Parliament last year, but the truth is that at that time it would be unimaginable for almost everyone then going from here, in this sector in particular, with the consequences of the pandemic crisis for tourism. at this time, there is a situation of very serious difficulties, which small entrepreneurs and workers in the sector are going through. And throughout this year, we have presented multiple initiatives and concrete proposals to move forward with answers and solutions to the dramatic problems that are felt on the ground. In many cases, even with the insistence of the CFP, many measures have been adopted to support companies in a fairer and more appropriate way. in this context where the country is, and where micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are, this must be the priority and absolute urgency — together with all the work to ensure public health and the fight against the epidemic, with vaccination, testing and screening — that allows to resume the tourist activity in safety and with confidence. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, without this, nothing done! So we will defend this sector, this economic fabric and the employment with rights that it can and must generate. The debate that this petition raises and the debate in which this petition is inserted is, in turn, a debate on more substantive, structural issues, on the options of our country regarding how we can and should organize the tourism sector, how we can and should organize our cities in our country. And this debate will be essential, in particular in the answer to the question on tourism that we will have and the tourism we want in the necessary recovery, at the desired post-pandamy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a resistance to intellectual honesty, you must agree, without great difficulty, that the impacts of local housing are not the same everywhere! And those with a minimum memory must remember, as we remember, that pressure and tourism overload were a problem of serious consequences in various urban areas, particularly in Lisbon and Porto. Are we talking about the local accommodation throughout the country, in its diversity of establishments from north to south of Portugal? We're not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! And it is not serious to treat this as if we were! Anyone who wants to put this discussion as if it were all the same in their realities and impacts—either a local accommodation in Alfama or a village in the Alentejo, or a bakery anywhere—will not have our collaboration. The urgent and necessary response for this sector, for the whole of this sector, from north to south of the country, has to be given, and is, of course, due to support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the fight against pandemics, with vaccination, testing and screening. However, there is another debate that we must carry out at the very moment, which is the measures necessary to ensure justice and non-discrimination, as regards the size of companies and their accounting arrangements. If the problem is in the answer that needs to be given to protect historic centers or other sensitive areas of certain cities, in the face of pressure and tourism overload, then we must ensure that this option does not involve negative discrimination, penalizing for micro-enterprises and individual entrepreneurs, passing alongside major interests, investment funds, etc. And in due course this approach will have to be done, in particular in view of what has been approved in the IRS and a simplified IRC regime. Finally, there is another aspect, placed aside of the object of the petition, but which is related to the questions of the local accommodation, which is the subject of the scheme of authorisation for the exploitation of these establishments. We do not agree with changes that facilitate mergers, transactions and even economic foreclosure on this sector, with the consequences resulting there for the lives of cities. But we will not fail to note that the licensing arrangements for the establishments, specifically with regard to their ownership, can and should be improved, taking into account, for example, family and other situations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems facing the country must be answered with solutions and not with any more unfair and inadequate problems or decisions. Otherwise, we risked finding small entrepreneurs like shooting weapons or human shields from representatives of real estate investment funds! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u127	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Marcia Passos said that I could not make the comparison between local housing and housing. Let me tell you I don't. The comparison that I make, that the Socialist Party does is between local housing and the lack of housing. This is the comparison that we make, and that is why we make this discussion together. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is, as you have said, that one day the debate on local housing and on another day the debate on housing is easy, but it is not serious. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u129	Completed the assessment of Petition No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( Luís Miguel de Melo Torres Marques and others) together with, in general, the Bills No. 785 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 786 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) and 788 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), we will proceed to the statutory votes. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 728 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Alter the Electoral Law of the Bodies of Local Authorities ( Tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 757 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the political participation of groups of elective citizens. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, CDS-PP and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The general vote of Bill No. 759 / XIV / 2 is followed. a (IL) — Deletes the day of reflection and amends the voting periods. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreirae abstained from the NAP.]] We passed on to the general vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the following draft laws: No 690 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Regulation for the election of holders of local authorities'bodies ), as regards applications proposed by groups of electors ; No 694 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Ensures the suspension of the amendments limiting the candidature rights of small parties and groups of electors, approved by Organic Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 21 August, during the year 2021, and makes the tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, No 710 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Clarify and simplify procedures for the submission of candidatures by groups of voters to local authorities'bodies, making the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of local authorities'bodies and introduces measures to manage the impact of the pandemic caused by COVID-19 in the holding of the elections of local authorities to be held in 2021 ; 715 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Consecrates an exceptional and temporary regime, in the context of the epidemiological situation caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the disease COVID-19, to reduce the number of tenderers necessary for the submission of candidatures of groups of citizens to the general elections for local authorities to be held in 2021, as well as the twenty-third amendment to the Election Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, and the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of organs of local authorities ; No 719 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By replacing the conditions of civic and electoral participation of the citizen ( Tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August and the sixth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August; No 728 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Alter the Electoral Law of Local Authorities ( Tenth Amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August ), No 730 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Act regulating the election of holders of local authorities'bodies in matters of special ineligibility ( Tenth amendment to Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August 2001, which regulates the election of holders of local authorities'bodies as amended by Organic Law No 5 -A / 2001 of 26 November, 3 / 2005 of 29 August, 3 / 2010 of 15 December, and 1 / 2011 of 30 November, by Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July, and by Organic Law No 1 / 2017 and 2 / 2017 of 2 May, 3 / 2018 of 17 August, 1 -A / 2020 of 21 August, and 4 / 2020 of 11 November, No 757 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthens the political participation of groups of electorate citizens; and No 759 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — Deletes the day of reflection and amends the voting periods. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, PCP and ENP and abstentions of CH and IL.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on this replacement text in particular. We begin by voting on a proposal by the PSD to add a new paragraph 5 to Article 16. the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001, of 14 August. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PSD, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 16 (...) 1 — (...). 2 —.... 3 —.... 4 —.... 5 — Groups of electorate citizens may include in their lists candidates affiliated with political parties, provided that they are declared as such. 6 — (previous paragraph 5). 7 — (previous paragraph 6).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u130	We shall now proceed to the vote on a proposal from the PSD amending Article 19 ( 8 ). the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, as set out in Article 4. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the PCP and the ENP and abstentions against the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: Article 19 [...] 1 — [...]. 2 —... 3 —... 4 —... 5 —... 6 —.... 7 —... 8 — The court responsible for receiving the list shall promote the sampling of the identity of the tenderers and their registration in the respective registration, working until the operations carried out, and the verification of the notary recognition of signatures is not lacking. 9 —....]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u131	We now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session of the Commission. [[Subject to the vote, the votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted and abstained from CH and IL.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the overall final vote of that replacement text, which, as you know, and as indicated in due course in accordance with Article 166 (2). Article 164 ( a ) and ( l ). Article 168 ( 5 ) and ( 5 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and Article 94 ( 4 ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic shall be done by means of an electronic vote, without the approval by an absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness. Therefore, this replacement text will have to be voted on for several stages. It is a system that is not the best, but it is the only one that has been able to provide. in the first stage, you will vote for the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are present at this time in the Chamber ; then they will go out and come to vote for the ladies and gentlemen. supplementary Members of each parliamentary group; and then, possibly, there will be a final phase. Mr. João Almeida asked for the floor. To help the table, I suppose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u132	Certainly, Mr. President. In the first four votes we held, there was a logistical problem in our parliamentary group. I would therefore like to make sure that the CDS-PP votes with regard to these votes have been correctly indicated. I don't think one of them was. May I take them back, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u133	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u134	In relation to Bill No. 728 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), the meaning of the vote of the CDS-PP is abstention in relation to Draft Law No 757 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) is voting against, in relation to Bill No. 759 / XIV / 2. a (IL) shall be abstention and in respect of the replacement text the vote of the CDS-PP shall be in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u135	Of course, Mr. Deputies. In any case, it does not alter the outcome of the votes. And this is the last word of the CDS-PP. Let us then begin the overall final vote on the replacement text. [[Pause.]] I remember all of you. Members who have to register before this electronic vote. That is why there was this waiting compass, because the President himself was not registered. We shall therefore go with the Members who are currently in the Chamber to proceed to the overall final vote on the replacement text. I'm asking the ladies. Members present in the Chamber who register their sense of vote in the computer terminal and who, at the same time, stand up, as I am asking the different ways of voting. I begin by asking who votes against. [[Pause.]] They voted against the PSD, the PCP and the ENP. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] Members of the CH and IL abstained. I now ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They voted in favour of PS, BE, PAN, CDS-PP, and non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. I'm asking the ladies now. Ladies and gentlemen, please leave the Chamber to replace others.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u136	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u137	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u138	Mr President, it is only to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party is going to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u139	But it should only be announced at the end of the vote, Mr President. Mr Ascenso Simões also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u140	Mr. President, it is exactly the same. Once I'm gonna have to get out...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u141	Mr President, I also reply that the vote is not over.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u142	Mr President, the vote is not over yet, but I am going out and will not be able to be in the rest of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u143	It will then be registered, Mr President. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who have now entered the Chamber, please register so that we can begin the second stage of this vote. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u144	Mr President, I am sorry, but my computer terminal and one of my fellow Members only allow us to select the meanings of vote in favour or abstention. We couldn't have access to the vote against. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u145	It seems to me a little democratic system. But I do not think that is the usual system in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Laughing.]] If that problem persists, Mr. Members will then report on their vote. We shall then proceed to the second round of votes. I'm asking the ladies. Members present who sign their sense of vote on the computer terminal and who, at the same time, as I am asking the different ways of voting, stand up. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They voted against the PSD, the PCP and the ENP. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] There are no abstentions. I ask who votes in favour. [[Pause.]] They voted in favour of PS, BE, PAN, and CDS-PP. [[Pause.]] The gentlemen. Members of the parliamentary groups in which this is necessary can now give place in the Chamber to the other colleagues, colleagues or comrades. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, I remember that this is not exactly the usual procedure of Parliament's votes, but the pandemic, with the requirements it has and with the limitation of the number of Members present in the Chamber, obliges these situations. But, after all, there are worse things in life. [[Pause.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who have just entered the Chamber, please register, because only by being registered are they able to vote. [[Pause.]] I wonder if everybody's already registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u146	Mr President, there are a number of computer terminals that do not allow us to vote. Only the option 'in favour' appears, neither 'abstention' nor 'against' options. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u147	Mrs. Deputy, that's even worse than the news they gave us recently. But if you cannot vote according to your conscience, you will then inform the Bureau and the services. We shall vote and those who cannot do so for any reason, then inform the Bureau of their vote. This is the last round of the overall final vote of the replacement text. I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They vote against the PSD Members present. Now I ask who abstains. [[Pause.]] There are no abstentions. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] They vote in favour of the PS, BE, and CDS Members. I call on the services to record the final outcome of this vote in the electronic framework. [[Pause.]] The table shows a total of 207 Members who voted. The votes were as follows: 130 in favour, 85 against and 2 abstentions. Since the total number of voters in favour corresponds to more than the absolute majority of Members in effective office, the replacement text was approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u148	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u149	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u150	Mr President, it is to be registered that I voted against, but not electronically, because my monitor did not allow it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u151	All right. In any event, the services will confirm whether the Member is not voting on the PSD. The PSD members generally voted against. The gentlemen. Members who have some information to give to the Bureau on this vote will do their best to express themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u152	Mr President, I want to inform you that I voted against, but I cannot register electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u153	All right. It does not change the sense of vote, because the fundamental thing is that Members are voting in favour, as it is obvious. I ask the services to take note of these problems that exist to prevent them from repeating themselves in the next session, because it cannot appear on the monitors only the alternative « for». I was going to compare with another country, but it would be politically incorrect.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u154	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u155	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u156	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a written statement of vote on the last votes taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u157	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u158	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u159	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u160	Mr President, it is also to inform that I could not register - electronically and that my sense of vote was « in favour ».
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u161	All right. You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. There are also more cases like this. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. There is no doubt that we have complied with the constitutional and regulatory rules and that this replacement text has been approved by the required majority of Members. Following the Vote Project No 542 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Dr. João Dória Nóbrega. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the following content: « On April 16, Dr. João Doria Nobrega died of a stroke at 86 years of age. He was responsible for the introduction and development of Family Planning in Portugal and for the reforms that enabled Portugal to reduce infant mortality. He was president of the Family Planning Association from 1986 to 1988, from 1988 to 1990 and from 1992 to 1994. He was also director of the Obstetrics and Maternal-Fetal Medicine Service of Motherhood Alfredo da Costa, from 1 August 1993 to 12 January 1996, where he retired, however, leaving to work, because, until the age of 80, he made thousands of births. He was also a member of the College of Gynecology-Obstetrics of the Order of Doctors in the trienniums 1994 - 1997 and 1997 - 2000 ; consultant for Maternal Health and Family Planning of the Directorate-General for Primary Health Care, from 1978 to 1988, and a member of 1. the Committee on Maternal and Child Health, set up in 1987, which developed the Mother and Neonatal Health Program. Professional of an irreprehensible surrender, of a recognized humanity, was referred by his peers as a visionary. As Dr. Maria José Alves, responsible for maternal-fetal medicine of the motherhood Alfredo da Costa, says, ‘you cannot speak in the history of obstetrics in the motherhood Alfredo da Costa ( MAC) without talking about it’. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expressed its deep regret at the death of Dr. João Dória Nóbrega and presented his condolences to the family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u163	Before we vote, I wanted to inform the House that there are present, in the galleries, the widow, Isabel Martins Oliveira, and several relatives and friends of Dr. João Dória Nóbrega. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 546 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by the CH, by the IL, by the Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira, by the ENP, by the PAN, by the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, by the CDS-PP, by the PCP, by the BE, by the PSD and by the PS. ) — Suffice to the fatal victims of the COVID-19. I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the following content: « For a year, Portugal and Portuguese have been subject to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has achieved unparalleled proportions in recent history and whose serious consequences, in terms of health, social and economic, are still unpredictable. The fight against this pandemic has been aimed at slowing down the progression of the disease, in particular at the level of its transmissibility, as well as at mitigating some of its most serious consequences, and at resorting to restrictive measures, including the two state of emergency declarations, which the Assembly of the Republic has been called upon to authorise, as well as its renewals, and which have resulted in limitations to certain rights, freedoms and guarantees, to which the population has been able to respond, in a disciplined, patient and serene manner to comply with the recommendations of the health authorities. Unfortunately, despite the effort made against this scourge, and the dedication, competence and professionalism of so many who are in the front line of this fight, among others, the health professionals stand out — the worst effects occur in fatal victims by COVID-19, who, by yesterday's date, amounted to 16,951 people. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its sorrow for the fatal victims of the COVID-19, addressing the families concerned their solidarity and sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u165	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We also have to vote for the Draft Vote No 547 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — regretting the death of Virginia Coutinho. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the following content: « Virginia Coutinho died on 21 April, only 36 years old. Natural of Guimarães, Moreira de Conegos parish, Virginia Coutinho was considered one of the leading social media specialists and a reference in digital marketing in our country. He studied Visual Merchandising at London College of Fashion at University of the Arts, having graduated in Marketing Communication at ESEC ( Higher School of Coimbra Education ) and postgraduate in Business Management at ISCTE ( University Institute of Lisbon ). He worked in Brazil as a representative of Facebook-Brazil and then in the company Socialbakers, in São Paulo and Prague, ascending the company's global marketing director. In 2014 published the book The Social Book: Everything you need to know about Facebook. In 2017, he returned to Portugal, integrating the Google training project and, in 2018, founded and directed Lisbon Digital School, a training school in the field of digital marketing. In 2019, created and promoted the Upload Lisboa event. José Crespo de Carvalho, professor of professor of ISCTE, described Virginia Coutinho as ‘ a human being who fell in love with education as a way of life’, stating that the ISCTE will set up the ‘Virginia Coutinho’ prize for the best postgraduate group in Applied Digital Marketing. The legacy of his short life blends a vibrant entrepreneurship with the solidarity he devoted himself to. In the last weeks of life it has created the Virgin Coutinho Fund, through which it aims to support the Tech4Good project of the Girl Move Association, which aims to support young teenagers in Mozambique, with a view to promoting the emergence of a new generation of women leaders. Carlos Coelho, from Ivita Brand Corp, wrote that ‘Virginia lived as a warrior and left young as a heroine. His legacy will remain forever because his energy, now merged with the universe, will continue to inspire us all.’ Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its wishes to the family and friends of Virginia Coutinho. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us keep a minute of silence following the votes that we have just held. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I would now like to ask Vice-President António Filipe to replace me in the Bureau presidency until the end of the vote, thanking him for his willingness and compañeriism. [[At the moment, Vice-President Antonio Filipe was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u168	Mrs. Filipa Roseta signed up to use the word. Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u169	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I missed the issue of presences, entrances and exits, and it was just to record...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u170	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry, but I couldn't figure out what you said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u171	Mr President, I just wanted to say that I failed the present votes and therefore wanted to register my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u172	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we follow the Draft Vote No 532 / XIV / 2. a ( tabled by Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Greetings by the International People's Day Cigano, which will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 8 April the International Day of the Roma People is celebrated, in honor of the Roma people, a diverse and borderless people, which constitutes the largest ethnic minority in Europe, with a broad historical, artistic and cultural legacy. In 2021, 50 is celebrated. the anniversary of the first Romani International Congress in London, which brought together representatives of various Roma groups, including the kale, of the Iberian Peninsula, and which originated this day. The Roma people are a historically stigmatized people who still face numerous difficulties in access to public services, especially education and health, but also difficulties in access to work and living conditions, being referred to positions of growing economic precariousness and social vulnerability. It has been a frequent target of widespread and institutional racism, which is increasingly manifested in misinformation, in a speech of inhumanization, incitement to hatred and appeal to violence, which has been aggravated throughout Europe as a result of the exponential growth of populist and extreme-right ideologies, which sit in racial hierarchy. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, by proclaiming Portugal as a state of democratic law, emphasizes the importance of ensuring a society based on pluralism, respect for and the free and equal participation of all individuals in the political sphere and in community life. in this sense, we failed and continue to fail the Roman people. It is our duty to act quickly and proactively, in order to ensure that all Roma benefit from the conditions necessary for their personal and social fulfillment. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes all and all members of the Roma communities in Portugal, reaffirming its commitment to the adoption of measures indispensable to the elimination of all and any forms of discrimination, marginalization and social exclusion, thus ensuring social justice, dignity, well-being, access to opportunities and full effectiveness of the individual rights of all Roma. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u174	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u175	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u176	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u177	Mr President, I just want to announce that, with regard to the vote we have just held, the arrival will deliver a written vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u178	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u179	Mr President, in the same way, I would also like to announce that the NAP will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u180	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Come on, then...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u181	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u182	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u183	Mr President, it is only to inform that, on this vote, we will also present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u184	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then proceed with the vote on the Rules of Procedure, and we shall now, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 82 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal system of individual and household education. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are now passing on to the Supplementary Screen, for the vote, in the specialty, of the same Bill No 82 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). Let us begin by voting on Article 1. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PAN, CH and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and the CDS-PP abstention.]] For Article 2. the, firstly, it is important to vote on a proposal by the IL amending point ( a ) of point ( i ) of that Article. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[(i) the legal system of individual and household education applies to students covered by compulsory education who wish to attend general basic education and scientific-humanistic courses in these special forms of education;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u185	Let us now vote on Article 2 ( a ) ( i ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote on Article 2 ( a ) ( ii ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the IL to amend Article 2 ( a ) ( iii ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against PS, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[(iii) individual education is taught by a qualified teacher outside a teaching institution;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u186	The vote on Article 2 ( a ) ( iii ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS and PSD, votes against the PAN and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on Article 2 ( a ) ( iv ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] A proposal submitted by the IL for an addendum to Article 2 ( ( v ) ( a ) should now be voted on. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] [[(v) Individual education and household education safeguard the freedom of parents who opt for these teaching modalities, allowing flexibility and adaptability to the pace of development and learning of each child and young person;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u187	Let us now vote on a proposal also submitted by the IL for the addition of Article 2 ( ( a ) ( vi ). o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] [[(vi) The legal system of individual and household education does not discriminate against students of these modalities, including access to school social action, the freeness of school textbooks and curricular enrichment activities.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u188	Mrs. Members, I believe that we can jointly vote on Article 2 ( b ) ( i ) and ( ii ) ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CH, IL and non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote in particular Article 2 ( b ) ( iii ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall, in particular, vote on the amendment tabled by the IL to amend Article 2 ( b ) ( iv ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were rejected against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[(iv) the transition between teaching methods;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u189	We shall, in particular, vote on the amendment tabled by the NAP to amend Article 2 ( b ) ( iv ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were rejected against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[(iv) the transition between teaching methods;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u190	We shall vote in particular Article 2 ( b ) ( iv ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and PSD and with abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote in particular Article 2 ( ( b ) ( v ) ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, CH and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall, in particular, vote on the amendment tabled by the NAP to amend Article 2 ( b ) ( vi ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstains from BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] [[(vi) the criteria and qualifications of the educational officer in the context of individual and household education;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u191	Article 2 ( b ) ( vi ) is therefore prejudiced. The proposal of the law. We shall now vote in particular on Article 2 ( b ) ( vii ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD and IL, votes against the NAP, CH and non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote in particular Article 2 ( b ) ( vii ) ( b ) ( 2 ) ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN and abstentions from CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall now vote, in the overall final vote, with the amendments adopted in the meantime, on the Proposal for a Law No 82 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal system of individual and household education. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u192	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u193	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u194	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u195	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u196	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u197	Mrs. Lara Martinho, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u198	Mr. President, with regard to Bill No. 82 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — It authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal system of individual and household education, which we have just voted on, it would like to request the waiver of the deadline for claim and final drafting.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u199	All right, Mrs. Member, let's submit the request to the House. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 867 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — For the regulation of scale assistance operators and scale assistance traffic technicians. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 1076 / XIV / 2. a ( CFP ) — Definition and regulation of a specific employment and retirement scheme for scale and technical assistance operators on scale. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 706 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Determines the circumstances in which digital environment access to protected content should be removed or prevented, as well as the procedures and means to achieve this result. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstains from BE, PAN, CH, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 787 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Legal arrangements for the sharing of computer data. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall now vote, in general, on Bill No. 678 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves the complementary legal framework for prevention and combating unauthorized financial activity and consumer protection. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now vote, also in general, the Bill No. 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Approves a scheme for the prevention of unauthorised financial activity for the protection of consumer rights. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from CH, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] This diploma also falls to 5. the Commission. We will vote on a request concerning the Bill No. 657 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary linkage of all teachers with five or more years of service up to 2022, requesting the resignation of the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, without a vote, for a period of 30 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 658 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — The eighth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 132/2012 of 27 June establishing the recruitment and mobility scheme for basic and secondary education teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 659 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Accounting of working time for social security purposes for teachers who have been hired out with incomplete hours. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Opening of a competition for the extraordinary linkage of teaching staff of technical and artistic components specialized in the exercise of functions in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts, in public educational establishments. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We now vote on Resolution Project No 868 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Reduction of inequalities affecting teachers contracted with incomplete hours. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 1138 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct a fair invitation to tender to value the teaching career and respect the needs of schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the CH.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1140 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Creating fair rules for teaching competitions, which respond to the needs of schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will vote on a request concerning Bill No. 682 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Extraordinary programme for the linkage of teachers with five or more years of service, asking the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee to be discharged without a vote for 30 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on Bill No. 761 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Determines the revision of the recruitment and mobility scheme of basic and secondary teaching staff. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u200	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u201	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u202	Mr President, it is only to indicate that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u203	It is registered, Mr Telmo Correia. Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 762 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Programme for the linkage of special technical teachers of specialized artistic education in the areas of visual arts and audiovisual arts. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No. 895 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Working time declared to the social security of teachers engaged in part-time work. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall vote for a request submitted by the IL, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without voting for 60 days of the Bill No. 785 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Alter the scheme for the authorisation to operate local accommodation establishments( 5 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 128 / 2014 of 29 August ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 786 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( IL ) — Decreases the coefficient of local accommodation ( amends the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the PAN and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 788 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — eliminates tax increases in local accommodation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD, the PAN and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 916 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of specific measures to support the floriculture sector. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PAN and PS and IL abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1104 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Promotion of a national strategy for the ornamental plants and flowers sector and specific measures to support the sector. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, the PAN, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We then generally vote on draft resolution No 1123 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a campaign to promote the regular consumption of flowers and plants and to create mechanisms to support this activity. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] Mrs. Members, the draft resolutions we just voted on are down to 7. the Commission, to be assessed in the specialty and to find a common final text. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 1055 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By implementing measures to recover and manage the National Bussaco Forest. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u204	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u205	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u206	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u207	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u208	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u209	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u210	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u211	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 856 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the classification of the area constituted by the dunes of exit of port, ancient customs, chapel of Sant'ana and « Pokinha » as protected landscape and 1009 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the safeguarding and valorization of the natural set composed of the dune of exit and surrounding landscape. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, on draft resolutions Nos 957 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By requalification of the vale de Santarém-Entronicamento da Linha do Norte, including the variant in Santarém, 965 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Construction of the Santarém-Strengthening railway variant of the North Line and 1001 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the modernization of the North Line, between Santarém and Entronicamento, and the resolution of the Santarém barrier problem. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 181 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new primary school( 2 ). o is 3. the cycles) of the Trafaria, 977 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the 2 Basic School. the and 3rd cycles of the Trafaria, in the municipality of Almada, 1018 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the 2 Basic School. o is 3. the cycles of the Trafaria, municipality of Almada, 1036 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the 2 Basic School. o is 3. the cycles of the Trafaria, municipality of Almada, and 1068 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By requalification of the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the cycles of the Trafaria, in Almada. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 72 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the framework law on public utility status. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD and PAN, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from BE, PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We then generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power on Bills Nos 133 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens) — The second amendment is made to the special career scheme of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy ( Decree-Law No 111 / 2017 of 31 August ), the first amendment to the legal regime of the career applicable to senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, secondly designated TSDT, under the work contract regime ( Decree-Law No 110 / 2017 of 31 August ) and the first amendment to the remuneration scheme applicable to the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career, which regulates the first ( Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February ), 462 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Valuation of the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician and 463 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, in order to value workers. The initiatives of the PCP and BE were withdrawn by the authors in favor of the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u212	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u213	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u214	Mr President, since I integrate the career to which this replacement text concerns in conscience and in accordance with Article 8 ( 3 ). that of the Statute of Members, I will not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u215	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us then vote on the replacement text. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall now vote on a request by the CFP for a vote on Articles 2 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure. a is 4. that of the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power, concerning Bills No 133 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens), 462 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 463 / XIV / 1. a ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Therefore, and as this rule is, each parliamentary group has two minutes for the debate, so I immediately give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos for that purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has called on plenary to vote on proposals for two articles which allow for further action in the elimination of injustices and in strengthening the rights of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. We propose that workers in the main technical and technical category move to the higher technical category of the areas of diagnosis and specialist therapy and that workers in the categories of technical 1. a and 2. the classes move to the superior technical category of diagnostic and therapeutic areas. We also propose that the defrosting of careers take place in the new career, considering the points obtained in the previous career, for the purposes of remunerative valuations, with application from the entry into force of the law, i.e. with the next State budget. There is still an opportunity to introduce these amendments, only if there is to be political will on the part of the other political forces. Valuing careers is a legitimate claim of workers and cannot be conditional on the deficit, which is how they have characterized the options adopted by the governments of PSD / CDS and PS. Conditioning careers to economic criteria has as its sole objective to attack workers' rights. To value careers is to value workers, it is an investment in improving working conditions, it is to strengthen the SNS ( National Health Service ). Since collective bargaining with the unions is the privileged space for discussion of careers, the fact is that the Assembly of the Republic is not prevented from doing so. So much so did he change the academic and university careers as well as the careers of the judicial magistrates and the judges of the Public Ministry, only as an example. It was at the request of the workers, through a legislative initiative of citizens, that the Assembly of the Republic appreciated this matter and arrived here. The government, rather than dignifying the career, opted to break the negotiating process unilaterally and impose a career that deserved the opposition of the workers. The government does not want to continue and does not want to resume the negotiation process. during this process, the CFP presented proposals, as we have already mentioned, for the elimination of injustices—I did not say one thing and did another! — and has so far been, as we are now, seeking to find solutions to strengthen the rights of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u217	Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate of the advocacy required by the CFP we look again at the reasons why we have different positions, so it is important to clarify the position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. We have always said here that the appreciation of public administration careers is a predominance. In fact, the debate around careers is indeed inevitable. Only with a Public Administration with conditions of access to career, progression and adequate wages is that we can ensure the functioning of a social state that we want strong and capable of responding to the needs of the country. But these conditions, Mr President, must always be based on dialogue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u219	It doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u220	...in the context of social dialogue — dialogue, moreover, that no responsible political party may question. Who governs, who wants to govern, knows and recognizes the importance of this instrument. Having said that, and because we respect and value this debate, we make it clear that we are sensitive to some of the issues put forward. But this understanding doesn't make us cross the red line. The line that separates us from the PSD is that of government responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u221	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u222	We do not understand the PSD flic-flac. He said that it is the responsibility of the government and its ability to negotiate, but at the end of the game he did a flic-flac and, after all, he already has a proposal that contradicts everything he said during all the hearings. With this maneuver, cleans the face of total programmatic and strategic absence. Mr President, I conclude by saying that for PS, careers, evaluation, progress, unrevised careers, all this is part of a concern about which is being worked and that it will certainly be more fair and more appropriate than the approval of an avulge measure and that it will bring suspicion to all the other workers in public positions on the role of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u223	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from BE, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin this intervention by complimenting the superior technical workers of diagnosis and therapy who are present here and, in their people, all the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians of the National Health Service, thanking the work they have done and who are now doing in the pandemic. These workers were almost 20 years looking for a career that dignified and recognized their importance for the National Health Service. In 2017, a career review appeared there, but it was left to do what might be the most important, namely wage tables and rules for the transition. In 2019, in a unilateral legislation, without such a dialogue that the Socialist Party's Member spoke and without any dialogue with the workers, the Government decided there to publish this. This is a very bad legislation that makes the workers return to their careers, placing them, almost entirely, on the basis of their careers, and from the point of view of remunerative valuation and compared to the previous careers, even worse. Well, I don't know if that's how the government is going to value the workers and dignify the careers... we think that's not the way it is and, therefore, we've always fought for that career to be altered. We have often called upon the government to do so, the government has never wanted to change this career. If the government does not want to and the House can then the House must do so and that is what we are for. I hope this process ends this way, because it ends well, with a career that gets better than it was. That is how the Left Block voted from the outset, and that is how we will vote on all the proposals until the end. As for the dialogue, there was no government dialogue with workers. And if a government does not talk to the workers or when it is asked by the Assembly of the Republic to change that career, then it must be the House that makes the change to that career, which is what we are doing here. Finally, Mr President, saying that there are many verbs and that, from the point of view of the verb, even a liberal may sometimes appear to be liberal social. But what really matters is voting and acting. Therefore, if the PS wants to value careers it must vote for this career change. Otherwise, it is only by the verb and, in the verb, anyone can say beautiful things. But if the action doesn't take place, it's worth nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u225	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words, starting with the word recognize, because recognizing is what the CFP did quickly. Despite having presented a bill on this matter, he quickly realized, and well, that the proposal presented by the PSD met the necessary conditions to correct the injustices that the PS created for these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u228	to the PS, I address a few words too. The first is denial, denial of all the agreements that have been established with the workers, which are there and which comply, from 2017 to 2019. A complete denial of all the injustices that the PS created. Another word for the PS is altivism, because it has legislated without hearing the partners, because it has unilaterally legislated. For the PS, too, the word demagogy, because this was the refuge you found for now to pass « between the raindrops», throwing a mist, saying in this House what you have never said in the hearings. The truth is that we have left this House: in all this process, the PS will never want or ever want to correct the injustices it has created for these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u229	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u230	For the PSD, I also address a few words : justice in the proposal that it presents, seriously, because it has always been clear in its position; responsibility, because it is a proposal whose financial impact is clearly comfortable in the State budget; convergence, because in it the workers see that by the hand of the PSD justice will be restored. I shall finish by saying that the PSD has been well on presenting this proposal, and by his hand the injustice will be corrected. The last word is resilience, because it was with great resilience that the superior technical workers of diagnosis and therapy had been throughout these years all, since 2017. It was that resilience that brought them here. in recent moments, I address a compliment to those who are in the gallery and, through them, send a compliment to all the superior technical workers of diagnosis and therapy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u231	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u232	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians present here and saying the following: this is one of the most difficult careers to make in terms of public service. We have not only screaming cases, but we have been able to create a legal framework in public service, which probably has the greatest confusion between old careers and new careers. For those who are here and who, like me, have legal training, try to make this clarification. It is a confusion, which no one understands, between what is the old career and what is the new, worse career, between mobility and transition between the old career and the new career. It is from the public service sectors where there is greater legal and legal confusion, and it is up to this House to clarify. That is why it is not understood how the Socialist Party can accuse the Assembly of wanting to do any "flip-flop", because this is not about governance, it is about justice and clarification of a legal framework with thousands of professionals who should have seen this sector clarified for a long time. We must not forget that there was a time when the Socialist Party negotiated this career, but then unilaterally published a career, a mode of transition and a modality of ascension that does not remind anyone! And with respect to those who have done and determined this career, this Assembly of the Republic, with sovereign power to legislate, has the right, but it also has the duty to clarify a legal system which is harmful, obstinate, confusing and highly harmful to these employees. They accept the challenge and try to look at the regulations that currently exist from the careers of these professionals and will see not only one of the greatest injustices of our system, but one of the greatest legislative confusions of recent times. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a right or any dramatization. I hope that tonight we do not have Mr Prime Minister on television saying that he will resign because the Assembly of the Republic is imposing on him a result or because there are no conditions to govern, because this is what Mr. Members, it is not even a matter of mere justice, it is a matter that requires any legal and political conscience to resolve, even more in a year in which these men and women have done so much to save lives, to save goods, to save social life and to save the mobility of all in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u233	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u234	Mr President, briefly, because it is not necessary to stress the importance of this activity, which is, moreover, an increasing importance in our society for all the reasons we know. It is also no less, depending on what has been said, to underline the procedure that has happened here. That is, these claims, this challenge and this undefined career was known. The technicians themselves have made it known for a long and long time. Some parties have taken the initiative in this area, which should in fact be resolved through dialogue and consensus and clarification of these careers. This dialogue was possible and positive. What we have heard today shows that there is a broad consensus in this area and, of course, the CDS has joined that consensus. That's all I'd like to stress right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u235	With no further entries, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled by the CFP. With no objection, we shall vote on the proposals submitted by the CFP to amend points ( b) and ( c) of Article 3 ( 1 ) and ( b ) of Article 3 ( 2 ). Article 4 is replaced by Article 4. the -A of Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, contained in Articles 2. a is 4. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[They were as follows: Article 3 Transition of workers integrated into the career provided for in Decree-Law No 564/99 of 21 December 1 — [...]: (b) Transfer to the category of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and specialist therapy workers who are holders of the category of specialist and main technical technician; (c) Transfer to the category of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy workers who are holders of the technical category of 1st class and technician of 2nd class. 2 — [...]: (a) For the purposes of recruitment for the category of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, the duration of service provided by workers who are holders of the category of specialist and main technician; (b) For the category of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and specialist therapy, the time of service provided in the categories of technician of 2nd class and technician of 1st class. Article 4a Remunerations and remuneration positions 1 — The remuneration valuations provided for in Article 18 of Law No 114/2017 of 29 December shall be carried out in the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, approved by Decree-Law No 111/2017 of 31 August. 2 — For the purposes of the previous number, the transition to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy shall be effective on 1 January 2018, and workers shall be repositioned at the level of remuneration the monetary amount of which is the same as the monetary amount corresponding to the base remuneration they were entitled to on 31 December 2017. 3 — The points obtained in the pre-priority career provided for in Decree-Law No 564/99 of 21 December as well as the length of service and performance assessment occurring, irrespective of the remuneration position in which the worker is placed as a result of the transition, shall be taken into account in full for the purpose of remunerative valuation. 4 — The progress, remuneration and other financial benefits of workers involved in the higher technical career in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, including changes in remuneration levels and the monetary amount of each level of remuneration, shall apply from 1 January 2019, unless the most favourable scheme is determined by collective bargaining.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u236	We now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the remaining indicative votes held in the Commission in the speciality. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now move on to the final vote of the replacement text presented by the Committee on Public Administration, Administrative Modernization, Decentralization and Local Power on Bill Nos 133 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens) — The second amendment is made to the special career scheme of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy ( Decree-Law No 111 / 2017 of 31 August ), the first amendment to the legal regime of the career applicable to senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, secondly designated TSDT, under the work contract regime ( Decree-Law No 110 / 2017 of 31 August ) and the first amendment to the remuneration scheme applicable to the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career, which regulates the first ( Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February ), 462 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Valuation of the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician and 463 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, in order to value workers. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] Mrs. Members, we will leave the supplementary script and return to the main script to proceed to the global final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on the draft Law No 712 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the exceptional and temporary measure of the admissibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts in the context of responses to the epidemic crisis of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against CDS-PP and IL.]] Mr Telmo Correia asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u237	Mr President, just because we are now going to take the opinion and vote on the opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, I would just like to correct the point of vote for a final text, which will not change to the result of the vote, of course, but we want to leave this note. With regard to the vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 72 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the framework law of public utility status, the vote of the CDS-PP is abstention and does not vote against as I erroneously indicated, because it had misnoted in the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u238	That sense of vote has been recorded, Mr President. Mr. João Oliveira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u239	Mr President, even more late than the CDS, I would like to announce that the CFP will deliver a declaration of vote on the replacement text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on electoral laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u240	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u241	Mr President, too late, I would like to note that on page 4 of the supplementary script, I have an idea that Mr President has announced a different sense of vote than the meaning of the NAP. In the proposals submitted by the Liberal Initiative, supplementing Article 2 ( v ) ( a ). Article 2 ( b ) and ( ii ). the, the NAP voted in favour and I have the idea that Mr President at the time announced a different sense of vote. We also want to correct a vote on page 7 of the supplementary script. The failure is my fault, because I think I changed the vote in the paragraphs. For clarification only in Article 2 ( ( b ) ( vi ). or... [[Pause.]] Mr President, you have just informed me that you have not been voted on. in this case, I voted badly then when I voted against Article 2 ( b ) ( vii ) and ( viii ). the, when the sense of vote of the NAP was in favour. In Article 3. It was against him.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u242	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. It does not change the outcome of the vote, therefore, it is recorded in this way. Mrs Ana Mesquita will now take account of three opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u243	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz do Trabalo de Lisboa — Juiz 6, Case No 15143 / 20.6T8LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Inês de Sousa Real (PAN ) to provide written testimony, as a witness, within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ana Mesquita, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u245	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca Évora, Judge of Criminal Instruction of Évora, Case No 209 / 18.0JAFAR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr António Gameiro ( PS ) within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u246	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u247	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz do Trabalo de Lisboa — Juiz 6, Case No 15143 / 20.6T8LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Bebiana Cunha ( PAN ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would like to ask Mrs Ana Mesquita to announce Mrs. Members who followed us away.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u249	Mr President, I am going to announce that Mr Sérgio Marques of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, was present by video conference at this plenary session. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-04-22.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting, as you know, will take place at 10 a.m. on Sunday, 25 April, and will be a solemn commemorative session of 47. the anniversary of 25 April 1974. The next session will take place next Wednesday, 28 April, for 15 hours. the first item is the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration for the period from 17 to 31 March 2021, to which the debate on the request for the State of Emergency Renewal Authorisation will be followed. the second point is the segmental policy debate with the Minister of State and the Presidency under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. We have thus concluded our work for today and this week. I wish everyone a good weekend. The plenary session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 4 minutes.]]
