ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let us start the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic [[It was 14 hours and 36 minutes.]] I request that the gallery doors be opened. Before we enter today's agenda, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, Secretary of Parliament, to make some announcements to the House. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I shall take note of an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members: « in accordance with Article 6 ( 1 ( c ). that of the Statute of Deputies, the Member of the PS Eduardo Cabrite ( electoral circle of Setúbal ) resumes the term of office, terminating his term of office to Deputy Ana Isabel Santos, with effect from 4 December, including. The legal requirements have been observed. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u4	Secondly, it announced that it had entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 1029 / XIV / 3. a ( CH). Finally, I would like to inform you. Members that Mr President of the Republic does not intend to use the authorisation which has been granted to him unanimously concerning his travel to The Hague, initially scheduled for 7 and 8 December 2021. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u5	Thank you, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now on the agenda, consisting of the first point in the reading of the message of His Excellency the President of the Republic on the dismissal, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 199 / XIV, which regulates the conditions under which the death of an assisted drug is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code. This message, which I shall read, dated 29 November: « Mr President, I address your Excellency under Article 136 ( 1 ). that of the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 199 / XIV, which regulates the conditions under which the death of assisted medicinal products is not punishable and amends the Criminal Code, in the following terms: 1 — by judgment No 123 / 2021, published on 12 April 2021, the Constitutional Court decided to take a decision on the unconstitutionality of the rule set out in Article 2. the, paragraph 1 of Decree No 109 / XIV of the Assembly of the Republic, published on 12 February 2021, which regulated the conditions under which the death of the assisted drug would not be punishable for this purpose by amending the Penal Code. It did so on the basis of the violation of the principle of legal certainty as a corollary to the principles of the State of democratic law and the reservation of parliamentary law, arising from the conjugated provisions of Articles 2. o is 165. paragraph 1 ( b ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, by reference to the inviolability of human life as set out in Article 24. , paragraph 1, of the Constitution. As a result, it was pronounced by the unconstitutionality of the rules contained in Articles 4. o, 5. o, 7. o is 27. the, all of the aforementioned Decree No 109 / XIV. 2 — on the occasion, the same judgment recalled that there were two possible, very different ways of extending the use of assisted drug death. By quoting it: 'while the European legal systems in which euthanasia is planned (in particular, Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourg) admit that assisted death may occur without the patient suffering from a fatal or terminally ill disease, the reverse requirement is made in the legal orders of the American continent (in particular, in Canadian, Colombian and federal states of the United States of America that criminalize assisted suicide — Oregon, Washington, Vermont, California, Hawaii, New Jersey, Maine and District of Colombia )'. The same judgment continued: « this diversity of policy solutions reflects the difference of assessment and weighting attributed to the above objective requirements relating to the protection of human life in comparison with the individual self-determination of the patient ». 3 — Following the proceedings of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic has fulfilled the obligation to return the unconstitutional decree to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgating it, as required by Article 279. the, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which took place on 15 March 2021. 4 — After a few months, the Assembly of the Republic amended Decree No 109 / XIV, considered unconstitutional, by Decree No 199 / XIV, published in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic on 19 November 2021 and arrived at the Presidency of the Republic on 25 November. 5 — Decree No. 199 / XIV, in addition to introducing amendments to deal with the decision and argument of the Constitutional Court, uses to adhere to new standards, which provoke unexpected perplexities. This is the case with the rules concerning the requirement for « incurable and fatal disease », Article 2. the previous diploma, paragraph 1. in this new diploma, this requirement is maintained in the same exact terms as Article 3 ( 1 ). o. Only in the new paragraph 3 of this Article. the, the requirement, for use in anticipation of the death of assisted medicinal products, becomes « serious or incurable disease». And increasing perplexity, point ( d) of the new Article 2. the, containing essential definitions for law enforcement, defines the serious or incurable disease as serious and incurable disease. 6 — This is Article 3 in the same diploma and in the same article. , first, we have the requirement of « incurable and fatal disease » in paragraph 1 ; second, the requirement of merely « serious or incurable disease » in paragraph 3. The « serious or incurable disease » is already defined as « serious and incurable » in Article 2 ( d ). 7 — Now, one thing is a serious disease, another an incurable disease, another a fatal disease. The legislator has to choose between demanding euthanasia and assisted drug suicide, which are the two forms of assisted drug death, which includes « only serious disease », « serious and incurable disease » and « incurable and fatal disease ». This is because, in the new text of the diploma, it now uses « serious or incurable disease», which means either, it defines that as serious and incurable, which means, in addition to serious, also incurable, it uses « serious and fatal disease», which means that, in addition to serious and incurable, it determines death. Not only is it serious, incurable, progressive and irreversible, as happens with chronic diseases without cure and irreversible, it is fatal. 8 — This is the first reason to ask the Assembly of the Republic to choose between the one required in paragraph 1 and the one required in Article 3 ( 3 ). o. And in the event that « fatal disease » is no longer required, it opts between the disease being serious or incurable, as referred to in Article 2 ( 3 ). the cumulatively serious and incurable, as referred to in Article 2 ( d ). o In matters as important as this one, regarding the essential rights of people, such as the right to life and freedom of self-determination, apparent incongruence is at risk of fatally reaching the content. 9 — We admit that the Assembly of the Republic even opts to waive the requirement of the disease to be fatal, and therefore extend the permit of the drug-assisted death, i.e., of the drug-assisted suicide and euthanasia. If so, it will align itself with the three European States mentioned by the Constitutional Court and Spain, which, however, has adopted the same law, the four with a more drastic or radical solution, and moving away from the solution of some US states, Canada and Colombia. This raises a more substantial question: does such a more radical or drastic view correspond to the dominant feeling in Portuguese society? Or, in other words: what justifies, in terms of this dominant social feeling in our country, that did not exist in February 2021, in the first version of the law, and already exists in November 2021, in its second version? The step taken in Spain? 10 — It is noted that the objection concerns this second version of the diploma, and does not refer to the procedure before the first version was drawn up. It does not invoke electoral arguments reported to 2019 or referendum intentions subsequently debated. It is about knowing on which basis the choice is supported by the most drastic and radical solution, if that is the option of the Assembly of the Republic. 11 — It should also be noted that what is at stake is the understanding of the Assembly of the Republic — when considering the right to life, on the one hand, and freedom to self-determination and self-fulfillment, on the other hand — as regards the dominant feeling in Portuguese society, above all, given the change done in just nine months: a fatal disease was required, and it would now be possible to waive that requirement. 12 — As I made it clear in two electoral commitments, between 2016 and 2021, it does not depend on the decision that I take any religious, ethical, moral, philosophical or personal policy position — that this would be more critical — but only, as happened in other similar cases, the judgment I make about what I consider to be the dominant value feeling in Portuguese society. 13 — I should also like to state that I consider, after consideration, that this second version of the diploma of the Assembly of the Republic does not give rise to the prior review of constitutionality by the Constitutional Court. On the one hand, because there are apparent incongruences of text to be clarified, and, on the other hand, because of this clarification, there is widely the type of legal and constitutional judgement that can be formulated. 14 — Finally, I take this decision three days after I have received the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic, and I have not yet come to official visit abroad, thus precluding longer constitutional deadlines, to consider either sending it to the Constitutional Court, or returning it to Parliament, for a matter of institutional respect by that central governing body. It would be constitutional, but a sign of disrespect, to use the deadlines given by the Constitution and decide immediately after the Assembly of the Republic is dissolved. 15 — In short, on the grounds set out above, I request the Assembly of the Republic to clarify whether or not "fatal disease" is required as a requirement for the use of assisted medicinal products and, if not, the requirement for "severe disease" and "incurable disease" is alternative or cumulative and, if there is no requirement for "fatal disease", there are substantial decisive reasons for changing the position taken in February 2021 in Decree No 109 / XIV. 16 — In these terms, I return, without promulgation, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 199 / XIV". Thus, the message from your Excellency has been read, Mr President of the Republic, but, as we all know, in the context in which the Assembly of the Republic is operating, we no longer have a chance to debate and vote on this issue in plenary as necessary. Therefore, we move directly to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. I call on the Government, Mr Prime Minister, to congratulate, as well as all the members of the Government present.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first point of the European Council will deal with a situation on the state of COVID-19 in Europe, which is known to Portugal, in which Portugal will seek to emphasize, above all, the need to strengthen external cooperation, in particular with African countries, because, as demonstrated by the omicron variant, it is essential to extend vaccination capacity globally, so that we can all feel safe. Portugal has so far already donated 2 million and 700 thousand doses, and we will reach 4 million and a half doses, in particular, to the Portuguese-speaking African countries ( PALOP ), but also to the COVAX multilateral mechanism ( Global Access to Vaccines of COVID-19 ). It is essential that Europe concentrate on this effort. On the other hand, there will be a discussion on the new European Union Authority for Health Emergency Preparedness and Response. On a proposal from Portugal, in the Council conclusions, there will be an explicit reference to the need for us to maintain, with regard to economic governance and flexible management of European funds, the standards we have now adopted in the context of crisis management for improved resilience. The third point has to do with the question of energy prices. Portugal will, above all, insist on two fundamental points: on the one hand, the need to accelerate the energy transition, as is the example of the setting of prices in Portugal itself, because it is actually accelerating the energy transition which we sustainly reduce the cost of energy to consumers; on the other hand, as the study of the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators has shown, Portugal is one of the Member States most exposed to price changes, resulting from the low level of interconnections in Portugal with Spain and the whole of the Iberian Peninsula with France. This is an issue that has been dragged for too long and is an issue for which it is essential to find solutions in the European framework. I would like to recall that Portugal has scrupulously fulfilled its commitments, in anticipation of the closure of coal power plants. It is therefore time for France to fulfil its obligations by allowing for increased interconnections. This is absolutely essential for our market, but above all so that the countries of central Europe can have an adequate energy mix and to strengthen Europe's energy security. in this sense, we will once again insist on the need for Europe not to be exclusively dependent on gas from Russia and Algeria and not to be able to waste the door that Sines constitutes for the supply of LNG (Liquefied natural gas). Since gas will necessarily continue to be a transition energy for many years, this transatlantic relationship anchored in Sines is of the greatest importance for Europe's energy security, either by the relationship with the United States, or by the relationship with the African continent as a whole. There will be a quite diversified discussion on security and defence issues, as well as on foreign policy issues. with regard to security and defence issues, Portugal considers the first version of the Strategic compass a good basis of work. We have insisted on two points: on the one hand, to make clear the irreplaceable partnership between the European Union and NATO ( Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty ) and on the other, on the need for the enhancement of maritime safety. with regard to international relations, there is a multiplicity of topics, ranging from the situation in Belarus with the use of people as an absolutely immoral shield or a pressure weapon, the tension around Ukraine and also the issues relating to the European Union's relations with the African Union, and there is still a specific point on the question of Ethiopia. There is one point that we consider of the greatest importance, which has to do with the external aspects of migration. As Portugal has defended, it is absolutely crucial for the regulation of migration to implement action plans with the countries of origin and with the countries of transit. There are eight that are already concluded, with Niger, with Nigeria, with Iraq, with Afghanistan, with Tunisia, with Bosnia-Herzegovina, with Morocco and with Libya. It is essential for the proper management of migration that these action plans are effectively implemented. in a quick summary, this is the set of topics to be addressed at the next week's European Council. I am, of course, at the disposal of the ladies and gentlemen. Members to answer the questions that they would like to raise during the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u7	You have the floor to speak by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Edite Estrela.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Mr Prime Minister listed all the issues under discussion at the next European Council. I believe that there are two that are recurrent and unmistakable, both on the European political agenda and on the world agenda, which are COVID-19 and migration. The pandemic is far from being controlled. The omicron variant, already present on all continents, has brought more doubts and concerns. Because it was new, because it seemed more easily transmissible and more dangerous, it increased uncertainty and fostered fear. It has increased uncertainty, including the effectiveness of current vaccines, even though the pharmaceutical industry and scientists themselves give assurances, data and other reassuring information, while appealing to individual responsibility and recall the most effective procedures we all know. Although the situation varies from country to country, because the vaccination rate is also very variable, almost all Member States have announced more restrictive measures to deal with the new wave. There are countries, such as Italy, which have made vaccination compulsory for some professional groups, others such as Austria, have made the vaccine compulsory for the whole population and, in almost all Europe, there have been increased restrictions on non-vaccinated people, negationists. For now, it's possible to conclude what we all know, isn't it? Oh, my God! While most of the world's population is not vaccinated, we are not going to get rid of the variants of the coronavirus. in the midst of all this unpredictability, Portugal has followed the right course, fortunately, by adopting appropriate measures, ‘opening’ or ‘closing’ depending on the evolution of the situation. With 88% of the vaccinated population, Portugal is 5. the place at world level and 1. the European level, and it is 7. the European country with fewer cases. None of this happens by chance. Plato already said: "Even with fertile land, you will not reap rich, if you do not cultivate. » The fertile land is Portuguese and Portuguese, and even adolescents, whose sense of responsibility has been decisive and an example for Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u10	In addition, we have many competent farmers: from health professionals to other sectors of essential goods and services, from teachers to autarchs, from firefighters to the Armed Forces and security, from volunteers to cleaning personnel.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u11	The people are taking the bait!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u12	But, at the command, we have a Prime Minister who happily does not spare the seeds or fertilizers and decides in good time—and sometimes even without network—do not hesitate to amend the direction whenever necessary. This is a Prime Minister and a government that has not left, they leave no one behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u14	But butter, but butter!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u15	We continue on the front line in the inoculation of the vaccine reinforcement. Like me and probably some of the present, that we have already received the third dose, more than 1 million and 660 thousand Portuguese also received it. There were some problems, particularly in Lisbon, with the closure of three more central vaccination centres accessible to the older population, but the vaccination process has been well underway throughout the country. It is very gratifying to hear this pedagogical statement: "When I vaccinate myself, I protect myself and protect others. Do not keep on seeking. ” Portugal also protects others by being supportive. Portugal's efforts in international cooperation are also exemplary, as Mr Prime Minister mentioned in his speech. In addition to the donation of 300 000 Vaccines under COVAX, the Portuguese Government has already donated 2 million and 100,000 Vaccines to PALOP and East Timor. Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, is not tired of saying that we will only get rid of the virus and be safe when most of the world population is vaccinated. It has therefore launched the challenge for the G20 countries to lay down and fund a global vaccination plan. I hope, Prime Minister, that the European Union will respond positively to this challenge. Mr Prime Minister, another recurring issue I referred to is that of migration. Although Portugal has always been on the right side, I cannot say the same about Europe. The European institutions have not always met the challenge. The refugee drama seems to have no end. As Mr. Prime Minister also pointed out, it is unacceptable what is being done by Lukashenko, the dictator of Belarus, instrumentalizing refugees, using the suffering and life of men, women and children as a political weapon. In contrast, there is the positive side. For example, I am very proud when I hear references to Portugal at meetings where I attend the Council of Europe as an example in welcoming refugees, and I think that is a fair recognition. For example, in relation to refugees from Afghanistan, Portugal received 500, between collaborators of the National Highlighted Forces and international organizations and those most exposed to anger, I would say, from the Taliban, such as women, human rights activists, women scientists, women and athletes, engineers, journalists and their families. Pride of pride is the example and legacy of Jorge Sampaio, with the creation of the global platform of support for Syrian students, as it has been seen recently, in the deserved posthumous tribute made to him in the United Nations. The loss of lives in the Mediterranean and now in the Channel cannot leave anyone indifferent. Pope Francis has already made an appeal to put an end to the « shipwreck of civilization» and to prevent our sea from becoming a « cold cemetery without stones». Will Europe be able to do what is required to preserve the dignity and life of those who risk everything in the name of a better life? I end with a personal reference, a note of congratulations and hope, because this will be the first European Council in which the new German Chancellor, Olaf Scholz, who belongs to my political family, represents an important strengthening of the influence of social democracy on European politics. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u16	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Meireles spoke by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u17	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past few weeks, in fact, we have witnessed, in the first hand, the resurgence of the COVID-19 with this new variant, omicron, which has reached many of our colleagues, family members and health professionals. I will not extend to this issue until there will be a hearing on it, but I leave a single question to the Prime Minister : following the guidelines of the European Commission, what is the Government's position on compulsory vaccination for the whole population? in other respects, the Government, and in particular the Prime Minister, to whom they have already called « General da Bazuca », has led during the campaign of the authorities to announce millions and millions of euros of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ), but has not been able to inform us of a single investment that the Government has managed to capture for Portugal. On the contrary, we have seen huge insolvencys of reference companies. in the chapter on energy, which is also part of this European Council and which we are very concerned about, because, as we know, it is a factor of competitiveness, particularly of companies, Portugal is in the European Union with one of the highest prices of light. However, we cannot have a short memory and we must remember that the government has decided to forgive EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), as it did in selling the Douro dams, instead of ensuring that the companies had more affordable and competitive energy rates or even that the almost 2 million Portuguese that pass cold had cheaper energy. Cold for 2 million Portuguese and, I would say, calafrio for the 10 million Portuguese who pay taxes. It is appropriate to ask whether we can trust a government that lets EDP escape with EUR 110 million in seal tax, but whose companies and citizens are absolutely crushed by an impossible tax burden. We cannot stop talking about the partnership agreement of Portugal 2030, which, as we know, presents the guidelines to be established between Portugal and the European Commission within the framework of the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and sets the main strategic objectives for the implementation of the European funds in Portugal during that period. It is about EUR 23 billion of Community funding which will be available to Portugal by 2030. The adoption of the partnership agreement by the European Commission, which defines the areas and financial envelopes for the implementation of the next PT2030, is surely one of the most strategic and decisive decisions of the current decade for the future of Portugal, where 85 % of public investment comes from European funds. Perhaps it was only by Community imposition that the Portuguese Government promoted a public consultation, which took place for only 15 days, between 15 and 30 November 2021, despite the PSD's request, through a question which was never answered, that, given the strategic relevance, prosperity, complexity, the scope of this partnership agreement, it was increased at least by the end of December. The government has not even answered us and it seems to us that this period has clearly been insufficient. however, it is also desirable that, especially in this period of election campaign for legislation, the Government refrains from linking the Portuguese State with the European Commission in decisions which the next Executive may later reject. We ask them not to fall into the temptation to auction the partnership agreement, making it an instrument of propaganda in the legislatures, as was the PRR in the municipal elections. More: we want the partnership agreement to be a real tool for the modernization of Portugal. I end with two questions, Prime Minister. First, will the Government abstain until the end of January from making decisions linking the Portuguese State to the European Commission for the future? Second and last question: will the current Government leave to the next Executive the final decision and the signing of this agreement with the European Commission? Let us hope that, in order not to remain out of line with the priorities of the Union, Portugal is for now another state of de-governance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u18	You have the floor to speak by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u19	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: in his initial speech, Mr Prime Minister did — as I believe it is for the Government to do — a description of the points of the meeting of the European Council and of the positions that the Government will take at that meeting. I would like to focus on three aspects of the topics that go to the meeting, until the time I have available will not lead to a later approach than that, but I believe these are the fundamental ones. I begin with the most important of all, which is that of the COVID-19 and the response that the European Union and Portugal are giving to the pandemic. As we said many months ago, contrary to what both the government and the European Union have acknowledged, the problem of pandemic and this virus — which, like any virus, suffers from mutations — is its expansion around the world without the vaccination accompanying that same expansion and the fight on a global scale. The European countries, the United States and other countries have decided to have a selfish policy of response to world vaccination and we realize that we are now paying this bill with new strains that are emerging because, contrary to what we want to believe, that it is possible to close the borders to the virus, the virus shows that it does not know borders and that it passes with enormous ease by the barriers that the human being wants to place it. Not reaching vaccination worldwide, as it should be, there is no effective response, as there should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u21	And why does that happen? It happens because the market was first placed and only secondly, after that sacrosanct market, the common and global interest. There was no desire of the European Union and there was no desire of the Portuguese Government to recognize the obvious, i.e. that patents were creating problems and preventing vaccination from reaching the whole globe more quickly. We continue to insist on this error and ask whether the Portuguese Government will learn something about what has happened over the past few months and whether it will act with the European Union in this regard, so that once and for all we can have the lifting of the patents so that this will no longer be a barrier to global security with regard to COVID-19. The problems are not solved, and I repeat the sentence I said recently, creating borders on this issue of pandemic, in the same way that have not been resolved by creating exactly the same barriers and borders as regards migration and in the response, both migrants and refugees. This is another of the major issues that are going to be discussed at the European Council, and it is going to be discussed in two different ways. On the one hand, the Mediterranean remains the cadaver of many lives and, as Pope Francis said, in the last few days, the example of the end of humanity, which is a phrase that I subscribe to at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u22	Are you talking to Pope Francis? Oh, my God! Aren't you ashamed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u23	This end of humanity has a subscription from the European Union, its policy for the Mediterranean and its response to the borders. Instead of having a human policy, it prefers militarization of borders. from this point of view, contrary to what has been said, even now by the Socialist Party, there has not been a different position of the Portuguese Government. on the contrary, the Portuguese Government has followed the major measures of the European Union and, in doing so, has also accompanied all the major mistakes that the European Union has made over the past few years. Therefore, every person who loses his life in the Mediterranean is responsible not only for those who do evils such as war or various persecutions in their countries of origin but also for a inhuman policy perpetrated by the European Union. But there are steps that can be taken and which are even more worrying or, at least, more inhumane in this way to answer the question of migration, and it is certain that sometimes these migration issues are not as simple as you think in the first analysis. When we look at the intention—and I ask you directly, Prime Minister, what will be the position of the Portuguese Government in view of this intention—to create a wall next to Belarus, once again, we are stressing that people, migrants, who are the problem, and not, in this case, who is using them to have a confrontation with the European Union. I wanted to make it absolutely clear that, on the left side of the Block, there is a total condemnation to the dictator Lukashenko. We have no doubt about that, but we also have no doubt that on the part of the European Union, more respect is required for all those people who are being used by that dictator in the confrontation with the European Union. from this point of view, anyone who wants to build walls to respond to this crisis of humanity, to respond to those concrete problems of children, women and men who need help, in fact, is not having a much more humane response from those who use them to wage war with the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u24	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u25	I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask you, Prime Minister : what will be the position of the Portuguese Government in view of this intention to use Community money for the construction of a wall next to Belarus, because I believe that this is a point that cannot go unnoticed at this meeting? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u26	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister : One of the subjects that will be discussed at the meeting of the European Council, and of great importance, is indeed this issue related to COVID-19. It seems to us that it will be essential for the Portuguese Government to demand an articulated response with an effective national response, capable of triggering the health problem and, above all, able to maintain the security and confidence environment that the Portuguese have in the response that the National Health Service ( SNS) has given to the problem of COVID-19. It was therefore important for the Prime Minister to be able to bring to the meeting of the European Council this prospect of an articulated response from concrete elements that would set the example of what has been done and that is being done at national level to give this response to strengthening the capacity of the National Health Service in order to deduce the health problem. It was important, for example, for the Prime Minister to bring to the European Council the measures which have so far not implemented, despite being included in the State budget for 2021, to strengthen public health teams. at the time that public health teams were once again overburdened with the increase in the number of infections, it was important for the government to realize what is in the State budget and to take this as a good example, at the European Union level, of strengthening the capacity of the National Health Service to respond to the problem of the epidemic. It was important for the Government to bring to the European Council the measures to strengthen the number of professionals in the National Health Service not only in order to ensure the response that needs to be given, for example, in primary health care, but accompanied by the strengthening that currently needs to be ensured in vaccination measures. Mr. Prime Minister, it is not possible for nurses to be diverted again from health centers for vaccination, i.e. to be diverted again from that which is the provision of essential health care in the primary health care plan to respond to vaccination measures. It is impossible to duplicate health professionals, from the point of view of their efforts and hours of work, but, in many circumstances, what is happening, once again, is primary health care to stay behind so that nurses can fulfil the obligations from the point of view of vaccination. It was important for the Prime Minister to be able to bring to the European Council the concrete example of strengthening the capacity for screening and testing in Portugal, of the ability to intervene in relation to the increase in the number of infections but also the example—which should have been given from the implementation of the State budget measures to 2021—of strengthening the hospital response capacity, which is also put back on this plan, in particular with regard to the increase in intensive care beds. Therefore, Prime Minister, we believe it would be important for these concrete elements to be presented as an example of the response given in Portugal, so that, from the point of view of the European Union, there could be consideration of measures linked to our response at the national level. Mr. Prime Minister, the issue of vaccines is once again absolutely decisive. In fact, Mrs Edite Estrela's intervention did not seem to be being done by a Member whose bench voted against the project that the PCP brought to ensure the release of vaccine patents, to ensure the production capacity of vaccines in Portugal and the response capacity from the point of view of vaccination. The PS voted against this PCP project, but today we heard the interventions of the PS Parliamentary Group as if they had not done so and this is where much of the problem lies, Prime Minister. The relationship with Southern Africa demonstrates what is today the subjection of entire regions to the dirty business that multinationals seek to impose from the preservation of patents, because the door to countries and to whole regions where vaccines do not arrive because they are grounded or countries that, having the capacity to produce vaccines, cannot produce them, because multinationals close the door to this possibility with the patents that are imposed. Portugal, particularly with regard to the European Union, should have a word to say, especially when at issue, in many circumstances, countries with which we have such close relations, such as those with Mozambique.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u28	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u29	I conclude, Mr. President. It was important that these issues could be equalized, in the same way that energy issues should be equalized, not going to side issues, but effectively facing the central problems of energy: the liberalisation of markets and the privatization of companies that should be at the service of countries and the response to access to energy and fuel from peoples and which are, today, subject to the logic of profit, as we have seen, with the national interests being called into question based on the profits of the multinationals of the energy sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u30	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u31	And that is also what Portugal should put — I conclude, Mr President — at the European Council meeting, another perspective, which will turn the measures that have put countries and whole peoples of the European Union to the mercy of the profit of the energy sector multinationals. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u32	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u33	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : of the issues on the agenda of this Council, Prime Minister, would choose three and ask some questions about each of them. First, on the issue of CVID-19, of course, and the importance of vaccination, Portugal can of course set a good example at European level, and it must give it, because it has a situation that is not unfortunately accompanied by the overwhelming majority of European countries and must therefore be seen as an example. With this legitimacy, we must ask some questions. One of them, which I have already presented here, to Mr Prime Minister, is that of a possible future European agreement to acquire, in sufficient quantity, vaccines for new needs that will come. As was expected or, at least, weightable, the vaccination age has been extended for children, now until the age of five, it has been found that, in the elderly, a third dose was needed, and, therefore, in the future, there will probably be other vaccination enhancement needs that will benefit from what went well at European level, if there is this possibility of acquisition. As the Prime Minister has pointed out, there must also be a European commitment to the generalization of vaccination at global level. Therefore, it is not only the strengthening of vaccination within the European Union, but also the commitment that the European Union must have towards other regions of the world which, if they do not have their problem of vaccination resolved, will make our action much more relative than could be. Then it will make even more sense to be the Union acquiring the vaccines together so that it can then also make them available to those countries. Another issue, still in the field of health, has to see — I ask the Prime Minister if this will be debated — with the recovery of health systems from each country, because this is also a problem of the entire Union at this time: the health systems of each country have invested in the response to COVID-19 and have problems in responding to all other areas. Does it or does it not make sense, not being a European policy, but a policy in each of the States, to have any European link in this answer? Then, on the issue of energy, apart from interconnections, from imports of energy into the Union, there is a recommendation from the European Commission, if I am not in error last week, which proposes, while this crisis is not overcome — and what is expected for the European market is price stabilization only in April 2022 — the reduction of the tax burden on energy, so that it does not reflect on the individual consumer, families and businesses as well. I therefore ask again whether or not the Government is considering a further reduction in the tax burden on energy to actually mitigate, as the European Commission proposes, this problem. Finally, and in time to end, we have often raised questions about Belarus and Russia over the past two years and the European Union's relationship with these two countries, on the one hand, with regard to sanctions against Belarus and the inefficiency of many of these sanctions, and now with the aggravated problem we are dealing with. Obviously, it is important to know the position of the Portuguese State on this matter. On the other hand, also in the case of Ukraine, how does the Portuguese State position itself, in particular in an articulation at European level and also at NATO level, in any intervention that must contain a Russian invasion?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u34	You have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present: I would, of course, like to start by talking about vaccination, not only in the perspective of solidarity — although it has made it clear what the commitment of Portugal by the end of the year, with the four million vaccines to be donated, but also because of what we believe is the lack of strategy from the European Union's point of view to combat a health crisis that began in a small village but has reached global dimensions. This is one of the aspects to be borne in mind, because past mistakes cannot be repeated in the future. This leads us to reflect that the health of the planet and human health are one and that, therefore, we do not have a criterion of solidarity and priorityization of vaccination from other countries as well, especially when Portugal has already reached 87% of the vaccinated population, it seems to us - clearly a lack of strategy and we would like to realize whether or not we are going to demand that the European Union itself align a strategy in this direction in terms of vaccination. As far as non-discrimination is concerned, the issue of patents has already been discussed here, but it would be essential to ensure the universalization of both vaccines and testing itself. People cannot be discriminated against because of non-vaccination or lack of access to testing. In our view, this is an essential issue, not only between doors, but also abroad. It must be ensured that all people, even in the most disadvantaged countries, have access to these two elements. in this sense, we would like to know, Prime Minister, what Portugal is going to defend with the European Union not only in relation to patents, but also in ensuring the universalization of these two dimensions, because we cannot forget the clear inequality that exists between countries. On the other hand, there is also the issue of optimizing the National Health Service. We must not forget that, with the channelling of resources for COVID-19, there were means of the National Health Service that, although they say there was an increase in investment, they were impoverished and there must also be a strategy on this issue. Above all, we want to ensure that there is no discrimination, also within doors, between those who are and are not vaccinated. Since time is also scarce, there is one subject that I would like not to leave behind, Mr. Prime Minister, and that has to do with energy. Mr Prime Minister spoke of the question of the need for interconnection after the closure of the plants to coal from Pego and Sines — an action that has long been claimed by the NAP and which we welcome, of course — but it seems to us that at this time we should also be talking about the empowerment of energy production. This is because if we need clean sources of energy, it makes no sense to remain dependent on foreigners, when Portugal, in fact, is a country with a huge solar potential and could be negotiating and trying to channel this potential to our country, in a decentralized way, rather than with photovoltaic power stations concentrated in certain regions, ensuring that there is this capacity. This is because Portugal is still the second country in Europe where it dies colder. We must therefore have a strategy to combat poverty, we must have a strategy to reduce people's turnover, which continues to be Europe's biggest weight and 55% of it goes to taxes. We would like to know what you are going to do with the European Council so that these two issues can in fact be tackled.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u36	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : Energy prices will be on the table at the next European Council, and as we know, the European Union has limited energy policies to market logic and oligopolies, moving them further away from the concept of basic right, as the right to energy should be. It follows that the sharp increase in prices has serious consequences, especially for the most vulnerable families, but also for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, who still try to recover from the impacts of the pandemic. The Greens stress that the sustainability of this sector depends heavily on the guarantee of public and democratic control, but what we have seen is that the European Union is divided and not knowing how to respond to this crisis at the level of energy. I would therefore like to know what the Government will stand for in the European Council on this matter, in addition to the question which the Prime Minister announced in his initial speech on the energy transition. Another issue under discussion in this European Council will be the COVID-19, at a time when vaccines are not yet a good thing for the whole world population. The European Union's vaccination rate is satisfactory, it is true, but it is not in other places, particularly in Africa, where the population with full vaccination is only 7%. It seems to us that it is more than time to defend vaccines as a public good, at the service of humanity, and not as a form of multinationals can accumulate profits. What we wanted to know is whether we can count on the government to bring this concern to the European Council, contrary to a European Union that persists in defending the interests of multinationals and pharmaceuticals. A final note on environmental issues, until the warming of a COP26 (26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties) marked by absolutely insufficient objectives and decisions. Mr Prime Minister, it is known that trade and cruise ships are a major source of pollution and that all of the world's ships constitute the sixth largest global pollutant, right after the five major countries. What we want to know is whether the government is available to raise this environmental problem from European institutions, with serious impacts from the point of view of greenhouse gas emissions and, therefore, also with regard to climate change, in order to seek solutions to the maritime transport sector or whether this problem will continue to be ignored, as it has so far been.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u38	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : I have heard you talk here about energy prices and what Europe has to do, if not a tragedy, it would at least laugh. Portugal today, together with Spain, has the most expensive electricity in the European Union and I have heard it here saying that the European Union has to do something for energy, without you doing so in your own country, it is at least to laugh. But since you say you can't do anything, answer whether or not Portugal is the third country in Europe with more electricity taxes and charges. That is what the Portuguese liked to see the Prime Minister answer here in Parliament. We heard Mrs Edite Estrela calling her the great farmer of Portuguese, besides a series of things that already seem more campaign to replace Dr. Ferro Rodrigues than anything else, but we also heard worrying things about Dr. Edite Estrela. Do you agree, or not, with the mandatory vaccine? It is important that you tell the Portuguese if you think you should be vaccinated. Dr. Edite Estrela gave the example of Austria and I wonder if it is legitimate for those who are not vaccinated to be confined and who are able to walk it free. It is a Europe for one another and a Europe for another, as has always been socialist defence. Mr Prime Minister, do you or do you not agree that 12 % of the population is subject to compulsory confinement if they are not vaccinated? It was an important question to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u40	Are those your friends?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u41	We're done with the migrants. Mr Prime Minister, in 2019, the European Union received 720 000 applications for asylum. [[BE's protests.]] I know that right now even the Left Block, which attacked the Church more in Portugal, appeals to the Pope and quotes the Pope. There were 720 000 applications for asylum in the European Union. in the United States, Prime Minister, was 300 000. There are no people who are holding up 720 000 people to reach the external borders of the Union, every year, at all times, questioning the pensions, wages and incomes of those who work here, of those who live here and of those who want to fight to live in this Europe. last year, Europe gave Portugal EUR 80 million in the multi-annual framework to host refugees, with wages, home and temporary foster institutions. While in Portugal we have firefighters to receive €293 and pensioners with € 147 pensions, we have 80 million to give refugees. What Europe is this that gives everything to those who come from outside and is unable to give anything to those who live here, work and spend all their lives building Europe, because it belongs to it?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u42	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u43	That is what we would like to hear Mr. Prime Minister answer without the Pope and without anyone else, with consistency, with clarity, because the citizens outside are waiting for an answer. [[Protests BE and ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u44	Go on, but it's a prayer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u45	Pray for the results! After January they won't be there anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u46	Put on but it's the mask!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u47	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : Now that there are conditions for putting these issues to you on the European Council agenda of the next 16th day, I would like to highlight three issues. First, on the situation at the borders of Belarus — not only with Poland but also at the borders with Latvia and Lithuania — where there are migrants whose entry into Belarus has been facilitated, on purpose, to cause problems within the European Union, the question I ask you is whether, in this European Council, the Portuguese Government will clearly be with the Polish, Latvian and Lithuanian governments in order to strengthen the security of their borders and improve the control processes, including allowing for the financing of these solutions. The second question, which is a mixture of geopolitics and energy policy, is the following: what is the position of the Portuguese Government? Taking advantage of the chancellor of the family of Mrs Edite Estrela — as if Chancellor Merkel had been little friend of Portugal —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u50	... I recall that the entry into operation of Nord Stream 2 is also not consensual in Germany itself and causes, in addition to other problems, energy dependence on Russia and devaluation of the strategic importance of Sines. I would therefore like to know what position the Portuguese Government will take on this important issue. Finally, I want to talk about COVID. In recent days we had conflicting positions between the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who defended, I do not know whether as President of the Commission whether, as a German citizen, consideration of compulsory vaccination, and the UN High Commissioner (United Nations) for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, who argued that it would be unacceptable to have vaccination obligations. So the question is: what is the position that the Portuguese Government will take on the European Council? Will you assume one or another? Ours is known: we are face-to-face against compulsory vaccination.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u51	In a country with 85 % of people vaccinated, does it really make sense to talk about compulsory? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u52	I do not resist, Mr Prime Minister, since you are here before me, to ask whether you will or will not give instructions to DGS (General Health Directorate) to make public the secret opinions that were based on DGS' guidance to vaccinate minors from 5 to 11 years old.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u53	You now have the floor to close the debate on behalf of the Government, Prime Minister Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to contain within 7 minutes that I have the answer to the five questions that have been raised cross-sectionally. First of all, with regard to vaccination, we believe that there should be no compulsory vaccination in our country. It is a question which, fortunately, makes no sense in Portugal. If the question arises in other countries, it will be an internal debate in these countries. It does not make sense that there is a European decision that opens up countries like ours, where, fortunately, without any obligation, we have been able to reach virtually universal vaccination. Another fundamental dimension is, as we have always said, that it is unacceptable to ensure vaccination globally, which has nothing to do with the patent debate, because the restriction is not in the patents.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u55	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u56	If an international regime of compulsory licences is in place, the blockade is in production and what we have to ensure is an increase in production capacity. That is why the European Union made a very important decision to support with EUR 1000 million the construction of the new production unit in South Africa in order to produce for the entire African continent. That is why Portugal has been an example, not only in vaccination, but also in the sharing of vaccines. As I have already said, we have so far shared 2 million and 700 thousand vaccines, on the bilateral basis and through the COVAX mechanism, and by the end of the year we will share 4 million vaccines. This is the example that European countries have set to ensure compulsory vaccination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are neither in favour nor believe that it is an effective measure to restrict flights, especially with the most consolidated knowledge we have about the new variant. We believe that the European Union must adjust the measures to be taken to the evolution of knowledge which, however, is consolidating itself on the new variant. In this regard, we consider it absolutely unacceptable to maintain the ban on flights to Mozambique, since the situation in Mozambique in no way justifies this measure; on the contrary, the experience of the humanitarian flights we have carried out has shown that the existence of flights associated with mandatory testing is the most effective mechanism to detect infected people who are asymptomatic and thus contribute globally to controlling the pandemic. A second question has been raised has to do with energy prices. First of all, Mrs Isabel Meireles, will not be aware of it, but the ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity) has decided a reduction of 3, 4 % of the electricity price of families in the regulated market from 1 January. Secondly, it will also not be taken into account that the social energy tariff, which covered 80 000 people, now covers 800 000, precisely to combat the phenomenon of energy poverty. That is the way we have to go and the great investment that needs to be made is even the transition to renewable energy. We have managed to reduce the price of electricity in Portugal by the simple fact that, since fossil energy is less incorporated into its production, there is no such high carbon rate in electricity production. That is the way we have to go. Yes, tax measures are important, and therefore, contrary to what happened in the Government which Mr. João Pinho de Almeida incorporated, which increased the VAT rate (tax on value added) to 23 %, we were able to negotiate with the European Union a situation in which the VAT rate may vary responsibly depending on the consumption rates, having lowered the fixed component to 6 % and the variable component to 3 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To reduce the price of energy, it is very important that we continue to invest in solar energy. In two consecutive auctions, in 2020 and 2021, we were able to obtain the lowest price of solar energy / hour worldwide. The reduction of this price not only reduces the cost of energy such as opening new doors through solar energy to have the capacity to produce, competitively, renewable gases that can replace natural gas, such as hydrogen and other gases, which, thanks to the price of solar energy, have become competitive. We can still fight drought through the use of desalination, because the cost of energy guaranteed by the price of our solar energy has also become sustainable through desalination. That is how we can give an effective response to the cost, without compromising the fundamental objective, which is to combat climate change. Another absolutely cross-cutting issue is migration. With Mr Ventura, it is not worth spending time in debate, since we are at the forefront of our positions. As for the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify the following: in the last three years, Portugal has received 1900 refugees. And we receive them, because it is our duty to ensure international protection. We must not forget that since the inquisition many Portuguese had to obtain international protection in other Member States, and so it was until 25 April 1974. This memory should always inspire us in the humanist position that we must maintain in the area of refugees. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not in favour of walls; we are in favour of regulated migration, so we want to invest in this. When I leave here, I will go with the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs to the head office of the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries) to deposit the Mobility Agreement with you. Members have approved, which will allow this agreement to enter into force on 1 January. We join São Tomé and Príncipe and Cape Verde and we will be the first three States to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we have already signed the Talent Circulation Agreement in the Ibero-American Area; we have already ratified and are in the process of entering into force the Migration Agreement with India ; and we also have in the early stage of negotiation the Migration Agreement with Morocco. It is through regulated migration that we ensure what is fundamental, which is, on the one hand, the need not to create walls—which are no solution for anything, for viruses or for human beings—and on the other hand, to continue what has existed since the beginning of humanity, which is the migratory phenomenon. According to historians, 50 000 years ago, human beings have begun to leave Africa and spread around the world and since then human beings continue and will continue to walk the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u58	Having the illusion that they will cease to walk the world is only useful to feed populist discourses, which obviously do not respond to any need or reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One last point to clarify Mrs...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u59	Mr. Prime Minister, I did not want to finish these magnificent sessions with you saying that your time is over, but, if necessary, I will have to do it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u60	Mr President, I will try to avoid far exceeding the time limits, but there is a particularly important issue that Mrs Isabel Meireles has put, certainly because of distraction. The debate on PT2030 did not last 15 days. on 25 January 2018, this debate was opened here by means of an appeal from the PS to the Government on the fundamental lines of the PT2030. We started this debate in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u61	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u62	There are two things we want to assure the country: firstly, with us there will be no delay and, therefore, we will conclude our work with the European Union; secondly, we still assure the Portuguese that we respect the meaning of their vote and, therefore, we will not sign any partnership agreement with the European Commission before 30 January. We will not do what the previous government did to me, which decided to privatize TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), risking irremediably commiting that company after having already been brought down in the Assembly of the Republic, or rather two days before it was brought down in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u63	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word 'thank you' is the best one to define this moment. We have thus reached the end of the second item on the agenda. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the members of the Government for their presence. [[Pause.]] There are still personalities in movement, formerly poetry in movement, poetry in motion. [[Pause.]] We now move on to the third and final point on the political debate with the Minister of Health required by the PSD. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health: The National Health Service and the health system as a whole exist to serve Portuguese, to ensure access, protection and promotion of citizens' health. Six years back and the assessment of the current government is unfortunately negative. The socialist government failed to protect the health of Portuguese. Today there are more than 1 million Portuguese people without a family doctor; primary health care is weakened, with thousands of exhausted professionals and patients waiting for months for a simple consultation at the health centre. The worsening of waiting times in the SNS is even the mark of the Socialist Party's inability to govern health. These are absolutely intolerable waiting times. This is what happens at the Setúbal hospital, where patients expect, on average, 352 days for surgery in the orthopedic specialty. One year! Or at Faro Hospital, where patients wait, on average, 844 days to be operated in vascular surgery. 28 months! But also in Lisbon, at Dona Estefânia Hospital, where children take on average 513 days to undergo pediatric surgery. Almost a year and a half, Mrs. Minister! These waiting times, these numbers are not, nor can they be, a mere statistic. They are people, they are patients who suffer at the hands of a government unable to respond to the basic needs of citizens. It is a flagrant violation of one of the most important fundamental rights of Portuguese: the right to health protection! Let us be clear: in health, more than one year of waiting is always unacceptable, the final point. The socialist government was unable to present a vision for the next decade in health. There's no planning, no strategy. The Health Minister's team has only sailed in sight, limiting itself to reacting to every problem that arises. This is your legacy. The six years of socialist governance called into question the future existence of the National Health Service. See the state of calamity in which most SNS hospitals are located. In fact, from north to south of the country, ruptures and closures occur in hospital units, particularly at the level of emergency services. It is so in Braga, Porto, Póvoa de Varzim, Guarda, Leiria, Vila Franca de Xira, Lisbon, Portalegre, Setúbal, Algarve, and the examples could unfortunately continue. The resignations of clinicians are counted on hundreds and thousands of statements of exclusion of responsibility of doctors and nurses are multiplied, without conditions to ensure safety and quality care. Health professionals are the pillar that supports the Portuguese health system and the SNS, in particular. They are professionals who work daily, often with enormous personal sacrifice, for the sake of people's health and well-being; professionals who have all called for "heroes" at the beginning of the pandemic; professionals whom Mr. Minister has still recently offended free and incomprehensible, accusing them of having little resilience. That is why the question is put, Mrs Minister: what is this resilience for you that considers that there is a lack of professionals in the National Health Service? Do those who, at the beginning of the pandemic, risk their safety and health from their loved ones to treat patients COVID-19 when little or nothing was known about the virus? Or do those who make millions of extraordinary hours, often leaving their families behind in order to keep health services working? Minister, resilience is the professionals continue to work for the patients and fight for the SNS, despite your governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u65	Ah, ah, ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u66	Health professionals perform their duties to serve the patients. To this end, they need the minimums of dignity, respect and recognition; they need access to working conditions, from careers to access to technologies that allow clinical exercise according to the state of the art; and, essentially, they need the means necessary to better serve the populations, which today do not exist. in the background, the country needs a vision for the future of health, a vision that, in six years of government, socialists were unable to offer. So it's time to change. next January 30th, the PSD assumes itself as the only reformist alternative capable of recovering the National Health Service with rigour and without facilitation. If we deserve the confidence of the Portuguese, we will take as priority the protection of those who are in a situation of greater vulnerability, placing people in the first place again. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u67	Mr President, you have a request for clarification from Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u68	PSD does not have time to answer the clarification request!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u69	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, we now realize that the PSD wanted to turn the Hemicycle into a pre-election campaign environment, but concrete proposals for solving problems we know little about, in addition to the traditional book of checks that the PSD uses, when it wants to resign its responsibilities, by sending patients to the private sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u70	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u71	... thus transforming the National Health Service into a minimum service for the most disadvantaged. But, honourable Member, our vision is another: it is that of a strong and universal social state that alleviates inequalities through close, humanized benefits and that it does not discriminate against anyone on the basis of policies or even the economic situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u73	It is this difference of view about the most elementary social functions of the state that ends up serving as a pretext for the PSD to ignore the facts of the National Health Service,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... this is based on nearly 140 000 health professionals, who daily give the best of themselves for the provision of health care, from health centers to the most sophisticated surgical interventions in hospitals. I give you concrete examples, Mr President: the recovery of consultations, the ongoing investments, the vaccination, which would be sufficient for you alone, but we have the humility to recognize that more needs to be done. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, the pandemic has confronted us with very difficult situations, but still the National Health Service has responded. I ask the honourable Member: what proposals does the PSD have? It seems that what is missing in proposals to the PSD remains in political opportunism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u74	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has no time to answer, unless some parliamentary group gives time to the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u75	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u76	Will Mr Adam Silva give time to the PSD Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u77	Mr President, it is only to say that Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, after the excellent intervention he has made, is fully available to respond if they give us time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u78	All right, but since you don't have time... you know that availability and time are fundamental things in life, especially when you go to an older age! Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u79	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: on the day when the Minister comes to the Assembly of the Republic, the Ministry of Health has made public an extraordinary injection into the National Health Service for late debt payment. The announcement made today, with which the government tried to make a headline on the subject, reveals, in fact, two things: one, that the National Health Service entered the year 2021 — a year when it was already known that it would still be a year of pandemic — completely underfunded and overburdened. If that were not the case, there would have been no need for an extraordinary injection in August and now a new extraordinary injection in December, revealing that the subordination in 2021 was more than EUR 1000 million. But it also reveals that this temptation remains, for 11 months of the year, to remain in a drawer in the Ministry of Finance applications for authorisation, investments, contracts, etc. , to then, in the last month of the year, come this extraordinary, always magical and saving injection, year after year, to clean up some debts that have been accumulated. It was not only this year that this happened, it has happened several times over time, but it is a very bad way to do political management of the National Health Service. I give some examples, using words that are not from the Left Block. Mr. President of the Board of Directors of the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ) of Lisbon, in a recent interview, said, and I quote: « Because of the limitations in career progressions that would give 200 euros to people who were needed at the hospital, we have just lost a number of professionals and have to hire services and analyses to private, which will cost many thousands of euros ». However, this management of, at the end of the year, makes an extraordinary injection to clean up debts, but during the year no autonomy is given for hiring, it does not proceed with the necessary investments, really, resulting in gross inefficiencies for the National Health Service. When we should be talking about reviewing careers, updating the salaries of professionals, valuing health professionals, what happens is that, during the year, nothing is done about this. hospitals, as nothing is done, cannot hire the professionals they need and, as they cannot hire the professionals they need, they have to use private ones. So they spend much more, they accumulate much more debt, which is, of course, erased by these extraordinary injections. But we can give other examples: that there is no such autonomy for hiring and even autonomy for some investments by the National Health Service institutions, as will result in 2021, spending more than EUR 400 million in extraordinary hours and recourse to service providers and spending of around EUR 500 million, for example in complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, purchased outside the National Health Service. Again, for 11 months, no management instruments are given that the National Health Service needs and, because these management instruments are not given, it has to be contracted outside, in private, and then comes an extraordinary injection, which is not of investment in the National Health Service, to eliminate accumulated debt, because, really, the necessary instruments have not been given to the National Health Service. The question we wanted to put is the following: for when is a policy that, rather than extraordinary injections to clean up regular debt, i.e. investment in the National Health Service, which goes through, for example, a simple thing and the most elementary sense, which is the review of all careers of professionals of the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u80	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor. [[Pause.]] It's not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u81	He went to take the vaccine!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u82	You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u83	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, I begin by complimenting you. With regard to the question which we are brought here today, it is imperative that we talk about the famous technical opinion, which has not been disclosed. This seems to us that it is not a matter of mere importance, since the DGS has come to make a decision based on data that are not known, thus generating great uncertainty in decision-making by the parents themselves of children, which clearly does not contribute to the certainty and trust that parents should have in the future of their children and, on the other hand, democracy itself and this House of the Republic should have access to this decision. Despite the statements made today by the Directorate-General for Health itself, it is essential, in our view, to see whether the College of the Speciality of Pediatrics was involved or not, considering that they are more than suitable and that they should also be involved in these processes, and what value is it that the Minister of Health wants to give to this type of specialists, because, in our view, they should have been involved and have a word to say in relation to these opinions. On the other hand — and we feel that this does not need to be remembered — we must defend the principle of open administration and therefore ask what legal principle it was underlying that these opinions should not come to public knowledge. We also understand, Mrs Minister — and will certainly agree with the NAP on this subject — in particular with regard to the health and well-being of children, which should not be made decisions on the basis of doubt, uncertainty, omission or conditioning of information, even more so when we have a criterion based on age groups and not a criterion based on health characteristics, particularly questions even of comorbidities, as happened in the other age groups, which could also be another criterion. Another issue which, for us, is also quite relevant has to do with the principle of non-discrimination. What is already being advanced is that probably access to school is denied, as they are not vaccinated, children who can practice sports activities. I ask what you will defend, either the Minister or the Portuguese State itself, considering that this issue will be discussed with the European Council, as regards the mandatory vaccination, because we find it very relevant that this matter should be clarified once and for all. We would also like the Minister, until the end of this work, to clarify whether she is available to send the opinions to the House and if she will publish them. On European and international solidarity, we have already talked to the Prime Minister today and we will therefore not repeat this issue. With regard to the National Health Service, the Ministry of Health said that it would make a reinforcement of EUR 745 million, but, in our view, it is not enough to be injecting money into the SNS if there is no innovation strategy, resource optimization and, more importantly, to value its own resources. It is that we have a decade's delay in investment and, for the greatest financial effort now being made, if we do not invest in the prevention of the disease, if we do not put innovation and technologies at the service of health, if we do not ensure that, in fact, we are increasing services and hospitals in a balanced and equal manner and not with increases based on criteria of what may be their own hospital provision, we will create discrimination in access to a service that is now universal and that does not have so much time since the SNS was created, because it is good not to forget that, the Portuguese did not all have equal access to basic health care. Madam Minister, we would also like to know, in terms of investments in the SNS and the criteria for allocating these investments, what is the way it is ready to trace, especially considering that it is essential to ensure the universalisation of the SNS, as has been continued so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u84	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u85	Mr President, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Secretary of State, I would like to ask the Minister of State two questions. The first is about what I design, without euphemisms, « chaos in the SNS », well visible, indeed, for a brief chronology about what happened in the SNS in the last three months. At the end of September, at the hospital of Setúbal, the clinical director resigns, and on October 6th, 87 directors of services of the same hospital are resigned; on October 25th, at the hospital of Braga, half of the chiefs of emergency team resign; on November 10th, at the hospital of Santa Maria, all heads of the emergency team of general surgery resign; on November 30th, at the hospital of Guard, the head of emergency services resigns; on the last two days, at the hospital of Braga, it is known that there are threats of resignation by the chiefs of emergency obstetrics and pregnant women are being transferred to the hospital of São João ; and there is already an announcement of another chaos, i.e. on January 22nd, that will be the last day of PPP (public-private partnership) of the Beatriz Ângelo Hospital, and there is no transitional plan. Today we know that there are more than 745 million euros of SNS reinforcement. That is, looking at what has been the last two, three, four years of the SNS, we certainly already have close to EUR 4 billion in additional budget and this chaos of services, this lack of quality of health care. What's going on in the SNS? You don't think, indeed, that this is a good time to think about a much more substantial reform in the SNS and not just throw money on the problem? The second question, as it could not fail to be — is the subject of the day — is on the basis of the guidelines issued by the DGS regarding the vaccination of minors. How does keeping secrets such opinions contribute to the appreciation of the process of vaccination and a conscious decision taken by families, the parents of these minors? How is it possible to make such a decision? Has the Minister already given guidance to the DGS to make these opinions public immediately because it is only in this way that families can, consciously, make decisions on a matter of greater importance not only to them but also to control the pandemic throughout the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u86	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : With the approval of the CFP proposals in the State budget for 2021, the CFP has come to have a set of instruments that allow to respond to various problems affecting the National Health Service. If these proposals had been fully implemented, today the SNS would have more capacity to respond to the epidemic, to accelerate vaccination and to prevent more rapid outbreaks and transmission chains, to recover delays and ensure health care for patients with all other diseases, than COVID, diseases that have not disappeared and are there. And the government just didn't make them because it didn't want to. It was the government's obligation to give them realisation and provide the National Health Service with capacity for the requirements. Here are some examples. The Government did a restrictive interpretation and did not allocate the extraordinary risk allowance under the COVID to all health workers. thus, it did not properly compensate these workers, who in this period were subject to the risk of contagion, who deprived of the convivio with their family and friends to ensure health care. If the Government had fully contracted the number of health professionals provided for primary health care, integrated in a career and not with term contracts, health centres today would have more conditions to ensure consultations and follow chronic patients, avoiding worsening of the health status of users. There are numerous difficulties on the part of users at the level of primary health care, difficulties even to make a consultation with their family doctor, difficulties that should be solved today. If the government had implemented temporary and exceptional measures for the hiring of family doctors today, the number of users without a family doctor would certainly be lower. The opening of the extraordinary competition for specialized medical training is expected, especially in the most deprived specialties. We can give examples: general and family medicine, public health, anesthesia, gynecology / obstetrics, among many others that are necessary and essential in our country, from north to south. in intensive care, Mrs. Minister, where is the expected increase of 405 beds? There was no need to strengthen public health teams, with more health professionals. More than a year and a half to deal with the epidemic, the government insists on the same mistakes and continues to fail to solve the structural problems. at the beginning of the epidemic, public health teams were impoverished. Today, the situation is not very different. Workers with precarious contracts are not integrated and, when there is again an increase in cases, teams do not have the ability to stop outbreaks and transmission chains, as the day-to-day evidence shows. There are delays in contact traceability, there are delays in the prescription of tests, for example, for people who are in isolation. Given the high average age of public health doctors, it is expected that in the coming years many will be able to retire and, if no solutions are adopted, public health will become even more weak. With regard to vaccination, if the Government had given effect to the CFP proposals, in particular the hiring of nurses with effective linkage, vaccination would have been faster and would have avoided the difficulties in the process of vaccination that is taking place, in addition to the fact that nurses would not have been diverted from primary health care to vaccination centres, thus weakening the response to primary health care. There is a structural problem in vaccination that the Government insists not to contribute to its resolution: the lifting of vaccine patents. And, yes, the lifting of patents, contrary to what was stated in the previous debate, allows the production of vaccines to increase their access worldwide. Ms. Minister, it is not with good intentions to defend the SNS, it is with the implementation of concrete solutions for the hiring and fixing of health professionals, namely the valorization of careers and salaries; the implementation of exclusive dedication; the linkage of all workers with precarious links, which enables the monitoring of users at the level of primary health care; the allocation of medical and family nurse to all users; and the recovery of waiting lists of consultations, surgeries, examinations and treatments and providing quality health care. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u88	It is the time of Mrs Mariana Silva of The Greens for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u89	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by stressing the importance of the issue that we are discussing today, basically, the right of everyone and each of the Portuguese to health and the response that the National Health Service gives or has to give to ensure access to that right. We shall address three aspects which, at this debate and at this political moment, in particular, need to be pointed out. The first, the appreciation of the National Health Service that we have, the result of the April 25 Revolution and the construction of the Portuguese people over decades. Valuation as much as SNS gave, at this stage in which it was tested with the COVID-19 pandemic, in a remarkable test of capacity and strength for which it had the unlimited delivery of its professionals: doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians, assistants and other workers. Life has shown, and continues to show, that, with structural insufficiency and problems, it was with the SNS that the Portuguese people could count on to face the storm, while others, those who plan to fill their pockets at the expense of the other disease, only made some contribution when it seemed like a good business. The second aspect has to do with the fact that the results achieved by the SNS at this stage do not hide the serious structural problems already discussed and which have now been further aggravated: users without family doctors; consultations with a list of months; lack of thousands of nurses; exhausted professionals; problems of facilities and equipment. These serious problems are, at the moment we are talking about, corroding the SNS, degrading it to a point which, if not taken, may not be returned, measures which the Government has refused, although it had financial means to do so. The palms are no longer enough to hold professionals and doctors in the SNS! Users who stop consulting today, make early diagnoses, who wait for rain and cold in turn for vaccines will not take much longer. Primary health care, fundamental pillar of the SNS and guarantee of preventive health, cannot continue to be limited in its action. That is why we say, Mrs Minister, that there is still time to make decisions, there are still means in the State budget of 2021. Don't stop acting on time! I would also like to remind you that the PS and PSD pretend to be angry here, but they fell in love all the time thinking about a central block, that private health groups so much want, so we can not stop pointing out the anger with which the PSD and the CDS got shot at the SNS, the same as they went down when they were in government. Finally, a word about vaccination. Apart from the technical opinions on the vaccination of children, we want to point out that, due to the complexity of this group, in particular, all measures and decisions must be thoroughly analysed and we consider that the path is not to ostracize children according to the choice of parents, whatever it is. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u90	Mr Hortense Martins has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u91	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In Portugal, SNS is the guarantor of Portuguese access to health care, which is an invaluable value. Is SNS perfect? No, it's not! But it's not here anywhere in the world, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Not even in richer countries, with more resources, the SNS or another national health service can respond perfectly without errors. Mistakes are faced with solutions and what we have heard here, especially on the right, who asked for this interpellation, is no solution to defend the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because there's a big difference, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a difference between those who defend the National Health Service so that Portuguese have access to it and there is a difference between those who cut to inhibit Portuguese from accessing the National Health Service. In fact, it is enough to see what has been done with acts, with measures in the past and also with the announcements that were made here to easily realize that, today, the SNS has more Portuguese than they want to access the National Health Service. There are more registered in the SNS, financial reinforcements have been made — today, see only! , we had someone here, the Liberal Initiative, who even said that the financial resources don't matter... We are putting, every day, more financial resources that are needed and now it doesn't seem to be important. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! They are important because that is why we can pay better to health professionals and with which we can now have 148 000 health professionals in the SNS. This is an extraordinary number to give an effective and efficient response, as the Portuguese need. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I still want to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who at present have almost zero moderate rates, a conquest of the last two legislatures. in the past, you increased moderate rates to inhibit access. We now have transport to help people access hospitals and primary health care. What did they do in the past? They made it difficult and cut in the transports. at this time, we recover wages and career progressions, encourage care activity, have more USF (family health units) and more incentives for needy regions. in the past, investments and career progressions were frozen, funding cut in the range of EUR 900 million. And today more than EUR 745 million has been announced to strengthen the production and response capacity of the SNS, either through hospitals or through the RSA ( regional health administrations ). Therefore, there is better health care and the example we give today is that of vaccination, in which our population is virtually all vaccinated, having already advanced to the booster dose, and in which even children are to be vaccinated and thus reduce the risks that this pandemic has brought us. And, of course, we could not think that it could be all the same, Mr Baptista Leite, because, in fact, it cannot do an analysis as if there had not been a pandemic. It is because I too listen to speak in international forums and there, fortunately, you can recognize that in Portugal we are doing everything right in defense of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u92	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr Miguel Arrobas.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u93	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There would be many issues we could confront today in this political debate with regard to health, but it is inevitable that we start with the vaccination of children from 5 to 11 years old. A climate of uncertainty and insecurity among parents and educators of younger children is unnecessarily generated. This is because the Government, in this particular case, defends its decision on the basis of the opinion of the Technical Vaccination Commission, to which no one has access and the Government does nothing to advertise it. What group of pediatricians and child health specialists has been heard? Why are these contributions and their contents not known? Why are opinions and contributions confidential? It makes no sense to us that, before knowing what the Commission's position would be, the Government had already announced publicly the purchase of vaccine doses and that it had already been due for the arrival of the vaccines: 300 000 doses already on the next day 13 and 400 000 doses in January. This suggests that the decision of the experts would be secondary to the government's political decision, so we believe that this is not the right way to make the population feel secure with the decision. The CDS is not against the vaccination of children, but defends that this decision cannot be political, but, yes, scientifically proven. This form of government ignores the Portuguese and, in this case, the parents of these 640 000 children lead to many issues which are urgent for the government to clarify. For example: if children generally have less severe forms of VOCID, which are often asymptomatic; if the vaccine does not prevent the transmission of the disease, it does not prevent serious disease from developing in these children; if the vaccination of children will not be so much to protect them from being infected, but rather to prevent the transmission of the virus – however, and as we have already mentioned, vaccination does not prevent the transmission and therefore there is a contradiction here that is important to clarify— ; if it is not ethically acceptable that children are vaccinated to protect adults, but the vaccination of children should always be for their own protection, why has not the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences been heard in this regard? If it is not clear whether the children being vaccinated are all between 5 and 11 years old or only those who may have comorbidities — in order to prevent the development of serious illness in the event of infection and, yes, it makes sense to us already, because it is for your own protection; if Mr. Prime Minister has just said that vaccination will start by children aged 11, then will it be all or only those who are at risk of developing serious COVID? What are we staying on? It is known that the protection granted by the vaccine is completed only 14 days after taking 2. The dose. It is also said that it is intended to vaccinate these children to minimize contagions at this time of Christmas holidays and family contacts and to take care of new isolations when they start school again. Just make the accounts to realize that, if that is the goal, the same will not be fulfilled. at best, only at the end of January is that this age group will be protected. If the Government wants a massive adherence to the vaccination of these children, it must give answers to these issues that are legitimately emerging and must pass a very clear, transparent and objective message, which does not leave room for doubt and, above all, that transmits confidence to the parents in the decision they will have to make, for the sake of scientific rigour, for the sake of transparency and, above all, for the best interests of the child. Mr. Minister, these and other questions have already been sent in writing by the CDS. Take the opportunity to be here before the Standing Committee to clarify us all. And, if possible, I would like you to clarify to us yet on the non-disclosure of HIV/AIDS data (human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) for 2020, which in a statement of 30 November of the Ministry of Health, was reported that they would not be disclosed. This, for us, is extremely serious and raises public health issues, although these data have been so well-treated over the past few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u94	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Your legacy, Minister, in front of the National Health Service is a disaster and it is tragic. Only in the last few months have we had 87 clinicians from the Setúbal hospital who resigned, while we paid twice and triple to foreign doctors who we are looking for and who serve far less the Portuguese population. The Beja hospital is without beds for intensive care, at a time when a large majority of the country again faces another wave of the pandemic. This is all in the country that said he was a pioneer in the advances of the SNS to fight the pandemic. We were the country of Europe which, on average, gave more consultations to the European Union ; we were also of the countries of the European Union which had more surgeries, the fruit of the COVID-19. How can it be presented before this Standing Committee and say that the SNS has responded well to the pandemic and to the Portuguese? How did he leave so many Portuguese— millions of them! — without medical assistance, with closed health centres, with closed hospitals, and can you come here, with your parliamentary group, say that everything went well and that we are already looking forward? Let's hope your look forward is not the same as it gave us in 2019, in 2018, in 2017, and so on. Portugal today has a much worse health service than most European services, and this is the fault of this government. The Portuguese know that, regardless of moderate rates, they do not have their service when they need it. And the Portuguese who are listening to us now know what it is to not have a consultation, which is to wait another year to get to a hospital,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u96	So much ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u97	...which is waiting two years to reach a health center. The Portuguese know that very well. So when they hear the Socialist Party say, "No, we were pioneers, we were very good at fighting the pandemic. », they wonder what they are doing. So, Minister, I'm sorry, I know you won't like the question, but how can we continue without money to hire doctors and we have so much money to waste on everything that doesn't matter in Portugal, to welcome refugees, to give them houses, and to continue there? [[PS protests.]] That is the truth that costs listening, but it is the truth that the Portuguese should hear. Finally, I ask you, Minister of Health...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u99	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, I ask you, Mrs Minister, how will you resolve the matter and whether or not you will publicly disclose the opinions of child vaccination. It is because it is not understood that the government conceals opinions about vaccination of children, at a time when so many parents are concerned about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u100	You have the floor by the Government to close the debate, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin with the question of technical opinions which support what has recently been reported to be the technical position of the Directorate-General for Health in relation to the vaccination of children, boys between the ages of 5 and 11. I do so in this context, because it seems to me a central issue for the tranquillity of Portuguese parents and children and for our confidence in public institutions and in the functioning of science. The Government has never taken decisions on vaccination, unlike many of those present, the Government has never decided whether or not a vaccine was integrated into the vaccination plan, it has always been limited — and well! — to monitor the technical decision, the opinions of experts and to respect the pace of scientific developments. on 5 December, the Directorate-General for Health sent to the Ministry of Health the technical position of the Technical Commission for Vaccination against COVID-19, which is published in terms of constitution and competences—and everyone can know how this Commission works—and this technical position actually referred to the vaccination against COVID-19 of boys between 5 and 11 years of age. of this technical position, it stated that the risk-benefit assessment is favourable to universal vaccination of children in this age group, being priority in children with comorbidities considered to be at risk. Therefore, two aspects: universal vaccination and priority for children considered at risk comorbidity, in case of need to make priorities. It also concluded the technical position that the best dose interval for these age groups was still under assessment — indeed, like what other technical committees in other countries are doing — and that the final technical opinion would include these two aspects. It is estimated that this technical opinion will be completed after today's meeting of the Technical Commission for Vaccination against COVID-19, a weekly and regular technical meeting. Subsequently, the Directorate-General for Health will update the vaccination standard, as is also the usual procedure, and the technical position and final opinion will, of course, become public to those who want to consult them. Having said this, on the other issues of this session, Mr Baptista Leite asked me what was for me the resilience of health professionals and whether or not I agreed that they were the essential stone of the functioning of any health system, specifically the SNS, and I say yes. As for the resilience of health professionals, it was I have seen these professionals resist the decrease in the number of effectives, wage cuts, the increase in working hours, the reduction of the allowance, the reduction of periods of rest... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and to a set of other aspects to which they have been subjected not many years ago. Regarding health professionals, we also see, above all, in acts, acts that we have sought to ensure by restoring these rights, by restoring and reviewing a set of careers, to, recently, award performance prizes, risk subsidies, increases by extraordinary work in the scope of COVID and many other aspects. They asked me about family doctors and waiting times. I'd like to say two simple things. The number of Portuguese without a family doctor is today, and unfortunately, the same thing that was at the end of the PSD/CDS Legislation. This reality does not mean that nothing has been done, it means that today we have 400 000 more enrolled in the National Health Service. There are those who think that they would not take place in the public health service, because we have a different perspective on society. With regard to the solutions to this problem, that is what really divides us. When you say that it is necessary to have a vision for the future that goes through a reformist alternative with rigour and without facilitation, I ask you whether this means increasing moderate rates, revoking the Health Bases Act or again reducing the SNS budget by more than 800 million euros, as has already been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It seems to me quite reformist and quite in line with what some have in mind. Regarding the issues raised about chaos, there is something we recognize: there are problems in the National Health Service, there are problems in public services, but we will not give up public services, despite the problems they have. That is what actually divides us. We will continue to invest in solutions and reforms of public services that guarantee their maintenance. [[IL protests.]] And we are not disappointed that we have been able to drive, to bring over 700 million euros to the National Health Service. I'm sorry, but we're not disappointed, we're happy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if we don't do this again in 2021, if we don't bring autonomy to the institutions, if we don't change the hirings of professionals, especially specialists in general and family medicine, it's because we haven't reached agreement to do so yet. But there we will go, in due course, because we will not give up, of course, on this path. And no, health services aren't much worse. And no, waiting lists aren't much worse. I am going to give a number that, despite all that is propaganda and the speeches often of resentment and hatred that are being stimulated by our society, and which is strongly repudiation, seems to me to be illustrative: in 2015 the maximum response time guaranteed for a hospital consultation was respected by about 74%, today it is respected by 79%, despite having passed by a pandemic, although we are recovering from it. The National Health Service has not done everything perfect, has a lot to do and has a lot to improve, but what is true is that it has managed to do two things: to maintain the response to the population and to respond to a pandemic. Let us hope that it will continue, because we do not ignore the difficulties with which other stronger health systems, such as the German, have been debated in recent days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u102	We have thus reached the end of this agenda item. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha is telling me that there are still several opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members to be voted on. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u103	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz de Instruction Criminal de Lisboa, Juiz 7, Case No 2093 / 21.8BELSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Mr André Ventura ( CH ) within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u104	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u105	Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u106	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Judge of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — Judge 7, Inquiry No 6082 / 21.4T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Member Inês de Sousa Real (PAN ) to provide written testimony, as an assistant, within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u107	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u108	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro, Judge de Instruction Criminal de Aveiro — Judge 1, Case No 2149 / 19.7T9AVR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Rui Cruz ( PSD ) to present a statement as a witness within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-12-09.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next meeting of the Standing Committee will take place on Thursday, 16 December, beginning at 3 p.m. and on the agenda are two items. in the first point, political statements, followed in the second point by a political debate, required by the PSD, with the Minister of Education. I am left to inform you that the inauguration of the Christmas tree will now take place, which is always a symbolic moment, and this particularly symbolic year for many of us, so I hope you will be able to follow me. The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 38 minutes.]]
