ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the Authority, good morning. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. I congratulate the Minister and the other members of the Government present. The first item on our agenda today is the election of the Ombudsman. I'll inform the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are already elected in the Senate Chamber. The second point is from the Interpellation to the Government No 11 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — About health. For the opening of the debate, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health : In Portugal, 18 of the last 26 years were ruled by the Socialist Party. Since 1995 the country has lived in the image and likeness of socialist thought and adopted the model of development of prime ministers Guterres, Socrates and Costa. There's no escape for good and for bad. The country we have is the country we inherited from the Socialist Party. Unfortunately, reality is incontrovertible. Ms.Minister ends her duties leaving sick health, a weakened SNS (National Health Service ) and an unmanaged health system. [[PSD applause.]] The facts are inexplicable. Today, in 2021, there are more than one million Portuguese without access to a family doctor. Today, 2021, there are hundreds of thousands of Portuguese people who wait and despair for a specialized consultation, for a surgery, for a simple complementary diagnostic examination. Today, 2021, it is estimated that more than 60% of the population, more than six million Portuguese, are afraid of becoming ill and of not having a time and time response from the National Health Service, thus resorting to a subsystem, plan or private health insurance.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u4	A breakdown in trust among health professionals, professionals who leave the SNS and, often, the country, tired and demotivated by lack of incentives and recognition. The contests are systematically empty because they can't stand it anymore. Today, in 2021, thousands of beds in hospitals are occupied by people with serious social problems that the government is unable to solve, thousands of beds that are inaccessible to patients who actually need hospital care. Today, in 2021, the reports of patients, many of them in a critical state or terminally ill state, who do not have access to medical boards and their certified multi-uses, which guarantee access to social support to which they are entitled. In this regard, despite the repeated promises of the Government, people continue to die in Portugal while waiting for the simple multi-use attestation. Madam Minister, fulfilling your promises at this point was what was required, at the very least respect for the dignity of the human person. [[PSD applause.]] In view of this, there is no way of circumventing the obvious: the government has failed in front of the Portuguese, especially the most needy. The socialist model of health management failed. over decades, they generated more spending, more waiting lists and people have more and more difficulties in access to health. The government has failed in health, because it relies on its action in an ideologically limited model, unable to optimize the resources available in the country. Closed about itself in the numbness of centralizing statism, it is unable to generate better health for all. The government tells us that the SNS has never had as many health professionals as it has today. The government tells us that they have never spent as much money on our health taxes as they have spent over the past few years. But, despite more money, more employees, Portuguese are increasingly facing difficulties in access to health. And contrary to what is said, the COVID-19 did not create this set of problems, which made it possible to put a magnifying glass on the weaknesses of an already sick system and which then the pandemic has worsened everything. In short, more taxes, more spending, more employees, worse results—there is socialism in its splendor! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And those who pay are the sick, with their health. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, this political cycle is over. The fall of the Government will lead the country to choose a new course in the elections on 30 January. The Portuguese will have to choose who they want to rule the country, and this important decision must be fully informed. Taking the PSD as an alternative in the country's leadership,... [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] ...we have a duty to make clear how we will ensure protection and access to health to all Portuguese. Therefore, we clearly state that the current SNS management and financing model is wrong and needs to change. If we are elected government, we take priority over reforming the SNS and the health system as a whole. These reforms are at two levels: on the one hand, we propose the immediate implementation of emergency measures that respond to the most pressing needs of patients; on the other hand, we will implement a set of structural reforms that optimize the health system, in order to generate better health outcomes, that is, healthier people, and based on an economically sustainable model, starting with urgent measures. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] With the PSD, all Portuguese who today do not have access to a family doctor will have immediate access to an assistant doctor. [[PSD applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u5	With PSD, all patients who are on waiting lists for specialist consultations, surgeries or diagnostic examinations, in addition to clinically acceptable time, will have immediate access to the necessary consultations, surgeries and examinations. [[PS protests.]] With the PSD, all patients with proven disease will have immediate access, without bureaucracy, to multi-use attestations to which they are entitled and to consequent social support. [[PS protests.]] With the PSD, all the people who now occupy a hospital bed with no acute disease that justifies them will see their social situation resolved and we will release these beds to the patients who need them. With the PSD, access to palliative care will become an immediate priority. There cannot continue to be patients in the end of life or with chronic pain living in suffering when there are alternatives. We won't let him! at the same time as these emergency measures are imposed, giving immediate response to the most pressing needs of the patients, a PSD government will simultaneously implement the much-needed structural reforms of the National Health Service. We assume that our priority will be to encourage effective health gains. A health minister cannot merely be an accountant who lists how many consultations and surgeries take place every year in the SNS. The Ministry of Health has to take on improving the individual health of the population as a driving line of its action. To this end, a new financing model is needed, which encourages and pushes professionals and institutions that improve health indicators and the quality of life of patients. And patients should be part of the decision-making process and define what these health gains are. No one knows the disease better than the patient who lives with her every day. [[PS protests.]] on this path, public health, as well as mental health, will cease to be once and for all poor relatives of the SNS, assuming itself as structural pillars of our reform. instead of a vision centered in hospitals, we will turn to the health system as a whole, with primacy in primary health care and including all sectors. A country with little means, such as Portugal, cannot afford to ignore resources that exist in the territory only because the owner is not the State. As the former Minister of Socialist Health Dr. Maria de Belém Roseira said this week, «people are not dealing with ideological discussions. Do not keep on seeking. ” We will assume the bet on the universalization of family health units and local health units, in order to ensure the proper adaptation of the system to the different local realities of the country. It is essential to give autonomy of management to those managing the institutions. Moreover, we will assume that the SNS must once again be appealing to professionals, valuing them and giving them the conditions to develop a clinical and research career at the level of best international practices. By doing so, we will serve all citizens better. Portugal has a high average life expectancy at birth, but older people live their last years with little quality of life. The elderly cannot continue to be abandoned to their own fate. Policies are required to promote active ageing and support the most vulnerable. We will do all this based on a digital revolution that will go through the health system, opening doors for the collection and analytical processing of data, artificial intelligence and more technologies to help change and accelerate the proposed reforms and, above all, to ensure the continuous improvement of health outcomes. In short, we have made this commitment before the country to refound the National Health Service for the 21st century, placing the person at the center of our entire action. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u6	With the PSD, the dream of health for everyone can finally be a reality. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u7	Also at the opening stage of the interpellation, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past few years, there have been several times when Parliament called on the Government on health issues, which shows the importance of this issue for society, for those who define public policies and, of course, for those who monitor them. in these interpelations, citizens' access to health services, recruitment of retention and motivation of health professionals and investments in the National Health Service were and continue to be central themes. And it was and continue to be the central themes in which it focused and in which it continues to concentrate the governmental action of health. In the access of citizens to health services, first, the assignment of a family doctor and then of the family health team to all enrolled in the National Health Service was and is a goal and a commitment. It is true that today we have the same number of people without a family doctor as we had at the beginning of the previous Parliament, about 10 %. Does this mean nothing has been done? No, no, no. We trained and recruited more family doctors, today we have a net balance of 852 family doctors compared to December 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's 852 family doctors compared to December 2015! We have over 340,000 people with a family doctor, but we also have more enrolled in the National Health Service — almost 388,000, of which 138,000 are only this year. This is proof of a National Health Service that leaves no one behind and leaves no one at the door. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in a context where this demand pressure adds an adverse medical demography, action must be performed in several dimensions. One of them is by increasing the financial incentives paid to family physicians who are fixed in deprived areas, as referred to in the project of the new SNS status. Another, through the universalization of the model of family health units, according to the Government Program, and here it is worth only stressing that there are today more 142 family health units than there were in 2015 and that this week the Government authorized the transition of more than 20 family health units to model B, which adds 40 health units authorised this year. This is not demagogy, this is reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to citizens' access to hospital health care, it is worth noting the recovery of the planned care activity, both for consultation and for surgery. Nearly two people respond to a pandemic, the SNS recorded an increase in care activity in September 2021 compared to the pre-pandamia period of 2019. The commitment of health professionals and their adherence to the exceptional system of incentives for recovery of care activities resulted in some 113 000 consultations with more than 55 000 additional surgeries, an incentive scheme which was also extended to 2022 this week. It is found that the largest volume of care activity is accompanied by an improvement of the management indicators of the waiting lists, in a framework where the number of registrations for consultation and surgery is aligned again with the year 2019. In fact, more than 79 % of hospital consultations referred to by primary health care and more than 70 % of the surgeries on the waiting list have been completed with the maximum response times guaranteed. There's a lot to do, and that's why we're still here. in an area of care especially sensitive to people and demanding in European commitments, with the European plan to combat cancer, there is also an increase in the number of operators in the oncological area. More than 20 % this year compared to 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But in the National Health Service, access to health care is also access to health promotion and disease prevention, contrary to what some refer to. Therefore, in 2021 SNS has been recovering from screening activity compared to 2019, especially from population-based oncological screenings, with very significant results in the increase of guests for the screening of colon and rect cancer and the increase of guests for the screening of breast cancer. Since we do not consider the role of health service to be exhausted at the borders of our institutions, we have the Healthy Neighborhoods programme, which, indeed, is a real reform. The second central theme in government action has undoubtedly been the recruitment, retention and motivation of health professionals. The SNS currently has more 148 000 workers, more 24% than in 2015, between 4000 doctors and 11 000 nurses, contrary to what happened between December 2011 and November 2015, in which the SNS lost 8500 workers. That's the reform! [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, these 148 000 workers no longer have a reduction in wages, overtime and uncomfortable hours. They mostly have a normal working period of 35 hours and have prospects for progression in careers. In fact, it was published today the opening of promotion contests in nursing careers, pharmacist and superior health technician, covering more than 2000 professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I say more: we know that careers are the guarantee of the quality of care provided. Therefore, it is worth recalling that, with the unions, we proceed to create the career of pre-hospital emergency technicians, to empower the pharmaceutical career, to review the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and to review the nursing career. Moreover, knowing that, in the SNS, there are two work regimes, throughout the legislature, we have always sought to harmonise them, not only in terms of careers, but also in terms of mobility, being ready the door that regulates the consolidation of mobility, according to the current government budget law. For the future—because we believe even in the future—, the approval of the draft Statute of the National Health Service will open the way to negotiation with the unions of the full dedication regime, will return to hospitals the autonomy of recruitment within the framework of their staff maps, will assign to regional health administrations autonomy for replacements and special reinforcement of workers and will bring workers to the hospital management bodies, fulfilling the Constitution. The third central theme in everyone's concerns was, of course, the investment in the facilities and equipment of the National Health Service. As an example of what went well, I highlight, of course, the case of the new facilities of the pediatric center of the University Hospital Center of São João, which have already received this week the first patient. [[P.S.'s applause.]] How long this process has been! I repeat, how long this process has been! It is true that there are many prioritized and planned investments that have not yet been implemented, but essential steps have been taken, for example, at the new central hospital of Alentejo, where the work was recorded, at the new hospital of Sintra, a partnership with the authority, where the undertaking began, in the requalification of the building 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins, of Guarda, where the announcement of the contract was published, in the new building for the expansion of the Hospital Center of Setúbal, in the new maternity ward of the Hospital Centre and University of Coimbra, where the competitions were launched, and in the acquisition of 40 heavy medical equipment, provided for this year's budget, in which there are only 10% of situations where the processes still occur, not forgetting that, in all cases, especially in us of high complexity, there is unpredictability. The emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic was an additional challenge on this path. All efforts were allocated to what was most emerging, for example the strengthening of the national intensive care network. Investments that were planned were postponed. We're taking them back. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in these areas, as in others, much has been done and much remains to be done. We know that and therefore we understand that the great challenge now facing the National Health Service is that of its organizational model. This is due to its new status, by a clear option for the autonomy of management of health care institutions, by an executive direction that technically guarantees the necessary coordination of its care response, its network functioning, monitoring its performance and the promotion of the participation of citizens, users and families in its functioning. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as before, we are here, and we are available to continue working and to continue responding to this challenge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u9	Let us now enter the stage of the debate. 17 Members have signed up to request clarification from Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, who will respond to all in the end. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Susana Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, your theory of chaos is not true. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] As for the strengthening of intensive medicine, I give you an example, that of the Aveiro district. In 2015, there were 16 intensive care beds. In 2021, there are 35 intensive care beds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I ask you, honourable Member, whether this is, or not, investment in the National Health Service! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u11	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, is mental health a poor relative of health? Oh, my God! Do you know who set up the National Mental Health Program when the families needed the most, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! It was the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the current crisis, mental health is a priority for this government, with an investment of EUR 85 million. Do you have any good examples of a mental health policy promoted by your party? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u13	Mr Luís Soares of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, we traveled to Guimarães. 20 years ago that council was waiting for a new emergency. For 20 years that council has been waiting for a real investment in primary care. Within six years, there were 18 million euros of investments in hospital care, 1 million and a half euros of investments in primary care, Mr. Doesn't that count for PSD? Mr Deputy, we were waiting for the Socialist Party's government to realize: investment, better health for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u15	For a request for clarification, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I want to tell you that "well prays Friar Thomas". We have proof of what the PSD government does — it's cuts and more cuts! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The cuts in the National Health Service have harmed everyone. I will give you an example: in the White Castle district, investments continue, both in human resources and in infrastructure, and in equipment. It has invested in intensive medicine, in the modernization of the operating block and even in the digitization and simplification of processes. He invested in nuclear medicine, in Fundão Hospital, in the ULS ( Local Health Unit) of Castelo Branco, with the new extension of the hospital, and in more requalified health centers, in Penamacor, Sertã, Belmonte, Idanha and even in Castelo Branco. Mr. Deputies, at the time of the PSD we had nothing of this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u17	Mr Norberto Patinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, in Alentejo, we know what the PSD did when it was in government. The Alentejos know what they would expect from the PSD in the government. They are tired of many promises and, in practice, their opposite. As Mr Baptista Leite says, the facts are unforgettable. With the ongoing process, the latest PSD government / CDS-PP suspended the construction of the central hospital of Alentejo. The Government of the Socialist Party has allocated Community funds to the project. The Socialist Party's Government has developed the entire tendering process, the work has been awarded and recorded. Mr President, do you want the PSD to go to the government to reopen this process? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u19	For a request for clarification, Mr Luís Graça was registered. But for the same purpose, Mr Santinho Pacheco, of the PS Parliamentary Group, is not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I will sum up health at the Guard in 30 seconds. As for the remodelling of the Pavilion 5 of the Guard Hospital, the Department of Health for Children and Women — listen, Mr. Carlos Peixoto! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] The work is in competition and affects EUR 8 million and a half. As for the remodelling of the Seia Health Centre, the work is in competition and is affected by EUR 1 million and a half, words of the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). In addition, there was the creation of the oncology service, the extension of palliative services and the remodeling of the internal medicine service, being affected by this 800 000 €. Unquestion me, if you have the courage, Mr. Dr. Baptista Leite. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u21	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Velez of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, the Leiria Hospital Center, in 2021, has 407 more professionals, 67 more specialists and 190 more nurses. In investments, it is more than EUR 20 million,... [[Protests from PSD MP Nuno Miguel Carvalho.]] ... that result, for example, in more fans, in a new area for respiratory patients and in the creation of a palliative care unit, so long as it is desired. We can have the same trend at the West Hospital Center, in which I highlight the recent re-qualification of emergency services. Don't you consider these numbers quite relevant, when compared to those that left in 2015? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u23	For a request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Marques, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, Sintra region was desperate for new health equipment. In January 2015, the Ministry of Health signed with the camera a protocol for the construction of four health centres. During this year, nothing else happened. In 2016, it was understood why: the government had signed a protocol, but it had not dealt with its financial component. It's the custom! In the last six years, it was possible to build the new health centers in Agualva, in Almargem do Bispo, in Algueirão-Mem Martins, in Queluz and Sintra. But not only! The work of our Sintra hospital is under way! [[P.S.'s applause.]] My question is very simple, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite : what does the PSD have to say to this when it speaks of lack of investment in health? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u25	For a request for clarification, Mr Luís Testa, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, the new Centro de Saúde do Crato, the new Centro de Saúde de Nisa, the laboratory of molecular biology of the Hospital de Portalegre, the High Resolution Clinic of Elvas Hospital, the nuclear magnetic resonance, already in competition, for the hospital de Beja, the strengthening of intensive medicine in the hospital of Portalegre, the service of immunotherapy in the hospital of Portalegre, whose works start on 6 December, are many examples that contrast with the « marquise» that VV. Ex. they built at Portalegre Hospital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u27	To make a request for clarification, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u28	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, we are surprised that you have not asked the Government again at this session whether or not there are any words in the Budget for the new pediatric center of the Hospital de São João. And you know why you didn't ask? Because the center received the first children this week! [[P.S.'s applause.]] After years of impasse, he received the first children this week. And it is a dream come true, after years and years of impasse, especially with your government, because there was a government of the Socialist Party that approved the work and entered an extraordinary authorization in the State Budget for 2019, having the work was built and completed in time and in budgets. And it is in this sense, at a particularly historic moment for the National Health Service, for my city and my region, that it is worth asking if it was for forgetting that you did not talk about this subject or if you are waiting for the election campaign to visit this work and see with your eyes what you thought could not be realized here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u29	In order to make a request for clarification, Mrs Mara Lagriminha Coelho has the floor of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u30	Mr President, honourable Member, you left the SNS sick. In recent years, the government has invested more than 10 million euros in infrastructure and equipment in the hospital network: a new operating block, a new delivery block and two magnetic resonances. Is this or not a clear and robust response to our Santarém district, compared to the legacy of the SNS abandonment that you left? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u31	You have the floor, too, to make a request for clarification, Mr Ivan Gonçalves, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u32	Mr President, Mr Baptista Leite, in the Setúbal district, it was possible, during the last six years of the governance of the Socialist Party, to conclude the intervention in the family health unit of Pinhal Novo, of Corroios, of Torrão, of Alvalade do Sado, of Sines. It was possible and is now in work the Family Health Unit of Bajo da Banheira and Azeiton. [[PSD protests.]] The competition has already been launched for the construction of the Quinta do Conde Health Center and the expansion of the emergency building of the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal. We heard here today what the PSD will do if it comes one day to be government. The question is: why didn't they do it when they were government until 2015! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u33	Mr Ascenso Simões of the PS has the floor to also make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u34	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, you today looked like the painter Kazimir Malevich, who painted the Black Frame : his picture is like the state in which the PSD is completely black. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like you to ask Mr. Luís Ramos to inform him about who bought it or who developed the accelerator process that is currently being bought for Vila Real hospital or who used his good relationship with Dr. Cládia Bento to know whether we are doing the biggest investment in democracy at the Chaves hospital! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Or I asked you to have a pleasant conversation, as always they are, with Dr. Sobral de Andrade, illustrious friend and teacher, to tell him how many nurses were hired to Vila Real’s hospital — there were 300! 300! 300! 300! 300! 300! 300! 300! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, that team that is there, on the government bench, is responsible for these results. These results are from the Socialist Party and they are these results that torment you, yourself and your black picture! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u35	To make a request for clarification, Mr José Rui Cruz, also from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u36	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, despite all the denial of PSD, this government, of PS, made possible in Viseu the expansion of the Emergency Service, the construction of the Molecular Biology Laboratory, the expansion and strengthening of the Intensive Care Unit, the construction project of the Ambulatory and Radiotherapy Unit, which has long been desired and approved by the municipal chamber. The new building for the Psychiatry Service is also under construction. It is more than EUR 40 million in investment, Member of the Commission! What I ask you is: is the PSD so distracted? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Don't you want to see or do it on purpose, and don't you mean these works?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u37	The Bureau also records two entries for requests for clarification by the PS. In the meantime, I would ask the services to prepare the electronic register for voting quorum. You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Gouveia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u38	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, facts are facts! Between 2011 and 2015, there was an effective withdrawal of valences from the General Hospital of the Covões. The Coimbra district then entered into suffering with its progressive dismantling and on its way to closure! Today, in an integrated logic, there is an effective appreciation, seeking to adjust their health care supply to the real needs of the population. The facts speak for you! Does the PSD recognize and appreciate this paradigm shift? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u39	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u40	Mr President, with regard to Madeira, I ask Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite : does the PSD assume that investment in Madeira's hospital — making national interest and in a solidarity act a policy successively postponed by the PSD governments — was the Socialist Government's will to ensure better health care in Portugal, and in particular in Madeira, allowing financial conditions for the construction of this new hospital? And assumes the PSD that PS has fulfilled and saved the trust and security of Maderians in a better health service? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u41	You have the floor to make a request for clarification, Mr Jorge Gomes, of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u42	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I believe you do not know Bragança, but you have your side of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u43	You know, you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u45	You know, yeah. You know him well!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u46	Don't distract me. I've only got 30 seconds! He knows well, but eventually he does not know Bragança Hospital Unit, which only in human resources, from 2016 until now, has integrated more 101 doctors and 130 nurses, created two new operating blocks and the new intensive care unit will be opened in December. All this was investment! But when you were in government and had the ability to do more and better, they wanted to remove the helicopter from INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) from the Bragança district, which was to isolate us even more, with the help of your bench! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u47	For a final request for clarification, Mr Luís Graça, from the PS, who is already present, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u48	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, there is a great deal to be done in the National Health Service, but there are many potentialities and some weaknesses. In the Algarve, for example, it's good to remember where we left from. For example, today we have a vascular surgery unit, which opened at the University Hospital Center of Algarve (CHUA). In 2015, general surgery lost its formative fitness. Today, we have neurosurgery, which has expanded more differentiated responses, making users not have to come to Lisbon. In 2015, orthopaedia lost its formative fitness. The production of the CHUA, even with only the silver of the house, increased by 15 % compared to 2019. In 2015, doctors joined in relief, subscribing below-signed. Yes, there is still a lot to do, there is a need to create conditions for doctors to stay in the area. Still, in health centers we have more registered users and more doctors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, it is necessary to build the central hospital of the Algarve, but there is one thing that the algarves know: it was a PS government that built the Barlavonto Hospital, it was a PS government that created the Algarve Medical School and will be a PS government building the central hospital of the Algarve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u49	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now turn to Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite's answers. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for your questions, 17 questions! Some of them were questions... [[PS protests.]] I only remember 17 questions addressed to a minister or a prime minister! In fact, they're already training! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] They do well to test the change. Prepare to be opposition! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] In fact, I look at your bench and I realize it's a little joke! [[PS protests.]] Looking at your bench reminds me... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u51	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, otherwise it is impossible to understand what you are saying. Please continue, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. looking at the socialist bench I see that it looks like a socialist spa: they came here to massage one another's egos! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] seeing the state reached by the socialist majority, there is clearly a conclusion that we can draw from this debate: the President of the Republic does very well to dissolve this House, because you are no longer in a position to govern! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It is impressive that we hear certain interventions. When we heard about the Pediatric Hospital of São João, which should have been built years ago and, five years later, you are invoking that it was you who reversed the entire process that was set up to be available to the children, that is unbelievable! Or when we heard Mrs. Minister of Health invoking works that started half a dozen months ago in Sintra, with money from the mobs, because the central government did not want to move forward with a cough, it is also absolutely unacceptable! [[PSD applause.]] Yesterday, in this council, we visited the Cacem Health Centre, a health center with 18 000 users, 12 000 of whom do not have access to a family doctor and where the only two doctors in the picture prepare to retire next year! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is serious. Portugal is among the worst among OECD Member States ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) in terms of excessive mortality-COVID during this pandemic, and this is because the patients did not have access to the health they needed. What we needed was to have the ability to answer that had gone beyond what was done. They lost their lives and the quality of life was damaged because of the government's inability. We see the OECD report now coming out in November this year, which records that Portugal is among the worst countries in terms of reducing the number of primary health care consultations. [[PS protests.]] when hearing Mrs. Minister say that there are more family doctors, when, today, more than a million Portuguese people do not have access to a family doctor and when it was her government that promised that in 2017, all Portuguese would have it, at least we would expect it to arrive here and assume that they failed, because they failed in front of the country! [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u53	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I inform you that the Bureau has registered 13 entries for requests for clarification addressed to the Minister of Health. The Minister will respond by two steps: the first at the end of the sixth request for clarification and the second at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u54	I call for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u55	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u56	Mr President referred to the amount of requests for clarification that Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite had in this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u57	No, I referred to requests for clarification from the Minister of Health!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u58	Mr President, allow me to request the Bureau, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u59	I was just clarifying, since you said something that does not correspond to the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u60	Mr President, allow me to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u61	As long as it becomes clear that what you said is not the same as what I said.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u62	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u63	Please, Mr. Deputy. Now, yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u64	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite had 17 requests for clarification and I, on behalf of the Socialist Party, would like to know why he was not worthy to respond to either one of these requests for clarification made by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u65	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u66	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u67	Mr President, it is also to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u69	Mr President, I would like to reaffirm that, naturally, parliamentary groups are the absolute owners of their time. Secondly, I wanted to say that the questions of the Socialist Party — I think they were17! — they were not questions, they were provocations to Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite. [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u70	Each health center is a challenge to the PSD! That'll give you a fantastic campaign poster!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u71	Mrs. Members, questions and answers have political readings. Non-questions and non-response also have political readings. So, we're just around here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u72	PSD can't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u73	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the debate, because that is why people who are interested in health want us to talk and not talk about adjacent issues. Mr António Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarification from the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, because the Minister needed a presidential guard of 17 almost infantile questions. [[PS protests.]] From Aljubarrota who did not see such a disproportionate force! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u75	It's 18 districts, it's people we talk about!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me here and now to make a deep and meaningful appeal for freedom, i.e. my inalienable right to tell everyone what you and the Socialist Party bench do not want to hear, unbearable truths. Nothing like each of us to be at peace with the certainty that the best of us never depended on the worst of themselves, or on anyone else. You have been a minister for more than three years and the Socialist Party has been in government for six consecutive years. Therefore, it is no longer time for more promises to comply with or for adjourned. Today is balance time. In recent years, from Bragança to Algarve, hospitals in a state of disaster have multiplied, where there are no health professionals, where leaders are fired, where the conditions of work are bad, where patients are piled up in emergencies and waiting times for consultations and surgeries are equivalent to genuine convictions. In the last two years, the fall in care activity of the National Health Service was worse than tragic, as evidenced by the numbers collected in an independent study based on data from the National Health Service portal. Is it true that there were fewer than 2, 8 million hospital contacts between presence consultations, scheduled surgeries and emergency episodes? Is it not true that there are more than 200 000 Portuguese on the waiting list for surgery? Is it true that there were fewer than 26 million diagnostic and therapeutic tests performed? Is it not true that there were fewer than 4422 cancers diagnosed? Mrs. Minister, the truth is not optional and it does not disappear or fades away with a dumb headband, as you did during the last debate in this Chamber with Mr. Prime Minister when I asked you about the promise to fulfill all Portuguese have a family doctor. We're over 1 million Portuguese away. The truth is that the government, often taking advantage of the merit of others, creates the illusion and incurates the forced perception that, in the fight against the pandemic, everything was done timely and for the best. But it did not work well, as the National Institute of Statistics recently showed in concluding that, in the first year of the pandemic, non-COVID mortality represented the death of more than 6700 people than the average of the last five years, which amounts to an increase of 18 non-COVID deaths per day. Many say that it only affected the older ones, as if it did not matter, when, in fact, they are of a generation that gave the best years of their life to the country, but that they were dying alone, without disturbing and without saying goodbye. I ask you therefore, Minister, because it was not concluded, at the beginning of the pandemic, protocols of collaboration between the National Health Service and entities conventioned from the social and private sectors, covering screenings, consultations and surgeries to SNS users when the public system could not ensure them. More than in words, I believe in attitudes, in the greatness of gestures and actions, where politicians find themselves and others recognize us, at the service of Portugal and Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u77	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, one of the main problems with which the SNS is facing and which conditions the provision of health care to patients is the lack of health professionals. We said this with concern, due to the need to strengthen the National Health Service and its teams, to ensure that doctors, nurses, senior health technicians, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, technical assistants and operational assistants are needed. We say this on the basis of the need to ensure medical and family nurse care to all users, because the reality in which more than 1 million users who do not have a family doctor requires concrete answers to be overcome. But we also say this with the conviction that it is in strengthening the SNS, guaranteeing the rights of health professionals and valuing them, which is the solution to ensure the health care to which users have the right rather than by transferring the care provision to private groups. We say this with the conviction that the National Health Service is the solution, as demonstrated by this period of the epidemic. We also know, Mrs. Minister, that in a short time many health professionals will be able to retire. This is a reality that we already know and that has to be on the table looking for answers that are necessary to strengthen professionals in the National Health Service, to value them in their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u80	For this reason, Mrs Minister, the question is precisely this: the answers that are needed are due to the valorization of professionals, their careers and their salaries; they are ensuring an effective public bond to all health workers, by combating precariousness; they are based on the replacement of the exclusive commitment scheme, based on the increase in the remuneration of service time for the purposes of progression and the value of the work provided, which corresponds to the increase in the quality of care provided, and not by a full dedication scheme, based on a logic of contractualization of objectives, merchant, which continues to allow professionals to exercise in private; they also move on the increase of support for the establishment of doctors and nurses in the areas in need, including the allocation of support for housing; they also go through the extension of specialized medical training, particularly in general and family medicine, in gynecology, in pediatric, among others with greater difficulty. Therefore, Madam Minister, I ask: what urgent answers will the Government ensure that everyone has a family doctor, to reduce waiting times for consultations, surgeries, examinations, treatments and, moreover, to ensure that professionals are valued, that their rights are recognized and that the SNS has the ability to give the answer that is necessary in our country? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u81	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u82	Mr President, Minister and other members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, after a debate that showed the existence of a kind of attraction by the central bloc, which is going through in the Socialist Party's hosts, it seems important to us to refocus the debate and ask questions to the Minister of Health on health policy. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u83	I understand that it is sometimes comfortable to compare with the PSD/CDS government because that is easy. The more difficult it is to question the needs that currently exist in health in Portugal, and that is why we want to question it, Mrs. Minister. Ms. Minister, there are various problems in vaccination centres, motivated by regional health administrations and this logic that comes from the Government to the ARS(regional health administrations) not to hire professionals directly, but, before, to choose to hire companies that then subcontract these professionals, remaining with a part of the remuneration that should be for them and even unilaterally changing the value that should be paid at the time. I am speaking in particular of several vaccination centres in the Lisbon and Tejo Valley region, where their regional health administration decided to subcontract the Precise company, which decided to keep part of the fees and unilaterally change the remuneration to professionals. Now there are vaccination problems in several centers, even because professionals are not enough, have a very high number of extraordinary hours and have sometimes refused to work on these conditions. Therefore, we would like to ask why, instead of directly hiring professionals to strengthen vaccination centers, primary health care, public health units, etc. , the government and regional health administrations insist on hiring companies as labour intermediaries. On the other hand, we would like to ask how much they are paying, at the right time, to those companies that, after that, pay sadly to nurses and professionals who are in the vaccination centers. This issue, which we put in relation to vaccination centres, can also be placed in many other areas. The costs that are incurred with companies and so-called 'jobs' to ensure essentially hospital emergencies would result in 2500 to 3000 professionals being hired. Question: Why does the government continue to insist on hiring companies instead of hiring professionals directly? We can also talk about extraordinary hours. In 2021, beating-CL will be the record of extraordinary hours in the National Health Service, which will certainly exceed the 20 million extraordinary hours. Now, the spending on these extraordinary hours was to hire 10,000 professionals for the National Health Service. Again, the question is this: why does the government choose to overburden the professionals who are already in the National Health Service and who are exhausted instead of definitely hiring the professionals who are needed for the SNS? The argument given, for example, in the budget debate by the Minister, that there are no doctors to hire, is not a real argument. when comparing the number of doctors enrolled in the Order of Physicians with the number of doctors that exist in the National Health Service we find a ratio of 1 to 2, that is, there are twice as many doctors enrolled in the Order regarding those who are working in the National Health Service. And certainly we do not only talk about the need for doctors, we talk about the need for operational assistants, technical assistants, nurses, senior health technicians, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, who are also needed and whose recruitment is also necessary. However, there have been no recruitment difficulties in these occupational groups. So they open the contests to make the same contract. Mr Minister, the question is therefore the following: why has the Government refused to adopt the necessary measures, including career revaloration, remuneration revaluation, progress with effective exclusivity and not with a scheme to increase the working time to which it calls 'full dedication scheme'? Why, in the end, would you rather spend more on this, especially with intermediate companies that do nothing but put in the SNS the professionals that SNS should be hiring for itself? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u84	Mrs Ana Santos of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u85	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members in the 2020 Annual Access Report, between 2010 and 2020, 2016, 2017 and 2019 were the years in which most innovative medicines were approved in Portugal. In 2020, 155 clinical trials were authorised in Portugal — the largest number up to now — and the consistent increase in clinical trials continued to be confirmed in Portugal. These are not my words, they are the words of the Annual Access Report. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Minister, was this the reality that Mr Batista Leite did not speak today about access to innovative medicines? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u86	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health and other members of the Government : According to a recent study by the Eurobarometer, there are three themes that concern people in our country most: 33 % of people are concerned about the economic situation and unemployment; 24 % of people indicate health as their main concern; and 22 % of people indicate the environment and climate change. We know that they are deeply related areas, because without health there are no opportunities for employment and income and without environmental policies there is neither health nor quality of life. In fact, the health crisis we are living in must remain in our memories as a clear example of the link and interdependence between these three pillars. Yesterday was the European Antibiotic Day. There were several health organizations that warned about the misuse of antibiotics, providing that, within a few years, infectious diseases are the first cause of death worldwide. The World Health Organization considers bacterial resistance to antibiotics to be one of the 10 threats to global public health, but we have seen that the Directorate-General for Health and Government have continued to ignore this concern and public policies, including the impact of exposure to antibiotics, either by direct administration of these drugs or by indirect administration, through animal production. We know that this brings serious damage to human health and also to environmental health, if not because of the ineffectiveness of the management of these wastes. The way forward is defined, the policies of DUMA Solo Saúde, i.e. health policies, in fact, interfere in all other pillars of the sphere of action of public policies. So, we want to know when and how this reality, this policy DUMA So Saúde, will reflect in Portugal? Ms. Minister, speaking from one health only means that the ministries cannot be on the back, pushing the problems of one another, as in the case of, for example, the neighborhood of San Francisco, in Camarate, where people inhale potentially cancerous components daily without the Ministry of Health and the Environment having managed to find common solutions for the protection of their health. Also in Fradelos parish people live in an authentic house arrest, due to the odors and the impacts of a mega farm, that is when the Ministry of Agriculture, excuses, the Ministry of Agriculture, or even expands this farm. in the same way, in the center of the city of Porto, people cannot have the right to rest, the result of the noise caused by waste pickup trucks. These are examples of the way that it is necessary to make interoperability between the various ministries, which cannot be turned around. Public policy DUMA Solo Saúde, in effect, has to become a reality in our country. So we ask the Minister when a health-only DUMA policy in our country. Secondly, I would like to bring another matter. In fact, we are faced with enormous challenges because of the fact that our population lives longer — still well! — but, of course, this makes it necessary to allocate more timely and sufficient resources to health responses. In fact, it is urgent that all people living in Portugal have access to family doctors and family health teams. It is urgent that you have access to essential consultations, such as stomatology, dental medicine, psychology or ophthalmology. Mr. Minister, these specialties I mentioned have waiting lists for more than two years. So we ask, how long? It is necessary to ensure that people and professionals have dignified conditions, rather than waiting rooms, for example, of the Metropolitan Urgency of Psychiatry of the Port, in which patients and family members are joined, in a process that may take more than 24 hours, without adequate conditions for agitated patients. The successive discharges of hospital management and the excuse for the responsibility of hundreds of professionals who do not find conditions for their work are alarming signs to realize that health in Portugal needs help. Madam Minister, it is true that we have lived for almost two years an unprecedented health and social catastrophe, but it is also true that the SNS, with its professionals, in a super-human way and with enormous personal and family sacrifice, often impossible to calculate, has managed to save tens of thousands of lives. Everything was asked of them, but much was denied to them. They put their own lives at risk and were irreversibly marked, but, Mrs. Minister, these professionals lack recognition. When will a review of wage tables with a view to fair remuneration and decent working conditions? We would like to get a clarification from the Minister on this matter. Finally, in conclusion, we would like to bring a recent case that seems unacceptable to us: a mother, 47 years old, a teacher, died of cancer disease and left a baby, but was waiting a year and a half of a multi-purpose medical certificate of disability. This is, in fact, a very serious example of what cannot happen. We know that these are unfair and incomprehensible situations and we know that there are hundreds of such processes to be resolved. Despite the extension of deadlines for certificates already issued, the delay in issuing new certificates may take up to two years. Therefore, Minister, we want to know when access to multi-use attestation is actually going to be speedy in our country. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u88	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, did not make a request for clarification, made an intervention and therefore wasted the time she had. Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing today is at the heart of Portuguese concerns. Therefore, we congratulate the PSD on the initiative, although we know that its objective is not to value the National Health Service. Therefore, from now on, we want to make it clear that the opinions and criticisms we bring today aim at defending the National Health Service and strengthening it and at nothing are confused with the operations for its destruction and the delivery of the profitable parties to the edge of profit by the private groups. More: the SNS, despite the de-investment to which the PSD and CDS condemned it in the years of its government's mismemorial memory and the measures that the PS government failed to take, despite having the means to do so in successive budgets, gave a remarkable response in the context of the pandemic. It was with the SNS that the Portuguese could count. However, this cannot be forgotten that there are problems that still exist and that are even worse because of the lack of measures, this is the full responsibility of the PS. Mrs. Minister, at least reopen all the services that the pandemic has closed! We regret that some areas of the SNS have not yet been fully demarcated. We need to know how many health centers are still closed, since the beginning of the pandemic. How many won't be reopened? In addition to many health centres are closed, especially in the interior, people still have to deal with another problem: the lack of family doctors in the interior is today a problem of extreme gravity and the scenario is not an encouraging one, on the contrary, will get worse, considering that many family doctors who started their activity in the 1980s are about to enter the retirement age. Mr Minister, does the Government bear in mind this structural problem that will have serious implications for access to health, in particular for the inhabitants of the interior? Given this scenario, nothing encouraging, what urgent measures are being taken to reverse this emptying of professionals, particularly in the interior? In addition to services that haven't reopened since the pandemic, there are units that cost millions but still open for no apparent reason. I refer, for example, to the intervention and diagnosis cardiology unit of the Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira, in Guimarães, which is ready to operate since 2018. However, it remains closed because, said the Minister, in 2019, there were no reports and authorizations from the Ministry of Health. At that time, « the finalization of the opinions that two entities, the North ARS and the Central Health System Administration, still had to issue » so that the treatment unit of patients suffering from heart attacks could start its operation. She also said that the unit « does not exactly correspond to the original design of the reference network for this area », but that this was no reason not to solve the problem. We are talking about an investment of EUR 2, EUR 5 million, supported by private contributions, and above all we are talking about patients who are victims of heart disease who are placed at increased risk. Because of this unusual situation, patients in the area of direct geographical influence of Guimarães hospital are being referred to Braga Hospital when there is this response in Guimarães. Madam Minister, taking this trip is not exactly to ensure immediate health care that these patients need — I say, nothing about health, that I am not a health professional — but this is an important issue. Mrs. Minister, in November 2021, we still do not know when to reopen that unit that is ready and that has professionals ready to work on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u90	To answer this set of questions, I give the floor to Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Maló de Abreu said that there are « unbearable truths». I'll quote a few. Unsustainable truth number one: the primary health care activity, in the first 9 months of 2021, increased 14% in terms of medical consultations and 45% in terms of nursing consultations. Insufferable truth number two: the care activity, in hospital terms and medical consultations, increased 94 000 consultations in 2021, compared to 2019, and 7500 surgeries in 2021, compared to 2019, a pre-pandemic year and of best care outcome to date in the SNS. Unsustainable truth number three: Oncological screenings increased in terms of invited and tracked women in breast screening in 2021, compared to 2019, once again a pre-pandemic year, and colon and challenge screenings increased in terms of guests and screenings in 2021, compared to 2019, once again a pre-pandemic year, also the number of oncological surgeries increased by 2021, compared to 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the unbearable truths that supposedly independent studies do not show. They do not show for several orders of reasons, probably by methodological assumptions, that we could discuss — there was time, but there is no — methodological studies in which the estimate of what was to be done is made with certain criteria, with certain assumptions, supposedly independent studies that do not show the evolution of 2021 and compare with the year 2020, which is a year we all know had the circumstances it had. Another unsustainable truth for those who say that we did nothing in terms of recovery of care activity and we did not have a specific and dedicated plan is that we had a specific and dedicated plan, soon designed for the recovery of the assistance activity of consultation and surgery, contained in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ( PEES ), approved in June 2020, which allowed us to carry out more 113 000 hospital consultations, more than 55 000 surgeries, a recovery plan that, with the support of this Parliament, was translated into an incentive to recover the present activity in primary health care, a recovery plan that we have chosen to maintain for 2022. Let us turn to the issue of family doctors, who say that the government is not concerned and that it corresponds to an undertaking that has been assumed and not fulfilled. What we assumed was the commitment to hire all the family doctors we could hire to pursue the goal of giving family doctor and family health team to all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unsupportable facts! Insufferable facts: there were 70% Portuguese with family nurse — that part that, in the spirits of some, tends to be forgotten — and today there are more than 15%. As for family doctors, there are more than 852 family doctors in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, there are more registered. There are more registered, but what do you want? Why don't we sign them up? Let's not treat them? Should we give them a check? [[P.S.'s applause.]] That we send them to some service of those who say that it is the services with which we do not make protocols, because they insist on reducing the basic essence of a worthy society, which is the provision of health care for all, to a fight that says it is not political but that it is actually, that it is not ideological but that it is, in fact, demagogic? Oh, my God! No, we're not going that way! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We talk about health professionals, to deal with the way we wanted to continue strengthening doctors and nurses and that translates into a very simple number. I noticed, out of curiosity, my first intervention in this House — as they say three years ago — and I noticed that at the time the National Health Service had more than 8,000 professionals, as opposed to at least 8,000 professionals that the National Health Service had lost between 2011 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today he has no more 8000 professionals, he has more 28 000 professionals. This is the result of the effort we have made over the past three years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dir-CL will-be: "It's little! We are not satisfied, we are those who are permanently dissatisfied and therefore, in addition to professionals, we have been committed to the motivation and improvement of their working conditions, in terms of wages, in terms of working hours and in terms of career recovery. It is a long path, which does not become a single breath, especially when one needs to recover from a heavy disaster. In any case, the promotion competitions that we have still noted today, the paths that we want to open with full dedication, with the replacement of work in companies providing services for effective work of those who work in the SNS, are paths for recovery and paths that we intend to deepen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They also mentioned that it was possible and important to talk about medicines. Yes, more innovation of drugs and therapies. From January to August 2021, Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ) concluded 57 processes relating to the introduction of innovative drugs with a 12 % increase compared to 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Among these drugs are Kaftrio® and three other medicines intended for the treatment of cystic fibrosis or the most expensive medicine in the world, which costs almost 2 million euros for children with spinal muscle atrophy ( AME ), type 1. Of course these aspects, which are essential in the functioning of the SNS, go unnoticed to some. Regarding the theme Una Saúde, it is precisely because we believe in this motto that we design the healthy neighborhoods project, because we believe that poverty harms health, because we believe that housing, the environment, the climate, food, education are essential social determinants. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is because we know what it is necessary to do that we do not believe in a health package, a health that is sold in the supermarket, a health that is solved with checks, a health that is resolved with vouchers, a health that, for example, no longer has a response to deliveries when the private sector understands that the price that is offered is not competitive. Yes, Mrs Mariana Silva, the SNS gave a remarkable response to the pandemic, but it has problems. However, there is a problem that is unavoidable: the SNS is not a flap blanket, the SNS is an organized network, it has a logic, it has a driver wire, it has a map, it has a planning, so even what seems to be a generous contribution, only interested in improving the response, has to be analyzed within the coherence of the network, because everything has to work not only in the logic of the availability of equipment, but also in the logic of the availability of human resources, which have to be profitable and concentrated, because this is the best way to keep in the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u92	Mrs. Minister, you have six further requests for clarification. I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you cannot accuse the Liberal Initiative of not having the courage, at that time when it was all going to the windows and giving finals of the Champions as prizes to health professionals, of not saying, with all the letters, that the pandemic was hiding the structural problems of the SNS. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] You will, of course, have the opportunity to speak in a group of more than twelve and a half Members. Therefore, these structural problems are in sight today and, if we compare what is happening today with what was happening before the pandemic, we see that access to family physicians is worse, waiting lists for surgeries, consultations and diagnoses are worse, the motivation of hospital teams is worse. The shelter we have seen, day after day, of medical teams, in Setúbal, in Santa Maria or Braga — that hospital that until a few months ago was a reference hospital, with huge rates of satisfaction, is today a site of chaos in the provision of services. When we talk about the waste of money - more than EUR 3500 million is spent today in the National Health Service - we are not better, we are certainly worse, especially because this coincides with the quality of service indicators and the user satisfaction indicators, which are also worse. I don't know how Mrs. Minister can do such a pink portrait. Only if it's even for party inspiration! Open... All of this has a reason, which is the ideological blindness that this Ministry has, permanently applied to its management of the Service, a management that prevents all the resources available in the national health system from being available to the SNS and also a huge management inability and a huge planning inability, Mr. Minister, as in fact, we now see in this approach of the fifth VOCID strike, where, two years later, we continue to talk about the same problems that we had two years ago, namely that of flexible beds in UCI (Intensive Care Unit), which does not notice how it was not already prepared. But given these realities and given the origin of the problem, the question I would like to put to you, Mrs Minister, makes me quote the International because I know it is a song of your preference, which says, in the last two stanzas, the following: "Let us do it by our hands, / All that concerns us! What the Liberal Initiative concerns is to propose, in this House, already in the next Parliament, an integral reform of the SNS, which introduces effective plurality of the provision of health services and allows freedom of choice to people, which is what really matters. The question I ask you is, as far as I am concerned, Mrs Minister, in the next Parliament, imagining that she may still be here, what the Minister will do.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u94	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u95	Mr President, I confess that the Socialist Party can still surprise me. The lack of memory and the shame with which the debate is presented and the Portuguese still surprise me! [[PS protests.]] Here I have a news from 2010, which says « Court of Auditors : Socrates leaves health disaster ». The speaker showed the document she mentioned. [[PS protests.]] But let me remind you more: « The Court of Auditors outlines a true disaster scenario in the health accounts, after the governance of José Socrates. The deficit and debt of the sector is around EUR 3, EUR 5 billion ». Between 2008 and 2010, health had a deficit of EUR 480 million and debts of almost EUR 3000 million. This is the country you left us! [[PSD applause.]] This is exactly what we went to do: paying your bills and your debts!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u96	Twelve years ago? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u97	Mrs. Minister, in the country we know are numerous hospital services of the National Health Service in a situation of pre-rupture. Endless expectations, hours in the urgency of SNS hospitals, some of which even had to close due to lack of professionals. Yesterday, Mrs. Minister, the PSD Parliamentary Group had the opportunity to visit the Setúbal hospital, a unit of the SNS with very serious structural problems, which the Minister well knows, that nothing has to do with the pandemic. There, Mrs. Minister, the average waiting times for surgery are very high. From 341 days for orthopedics to 539 days for — stop! — paediatric surgery. The children, Mrs. Minister, expect, on average, more than a year for surgery. But that's not all. In the emergency service, which we have also visited, the Setúbal hospital is experiencing an absolutely shocking reality. [[Protests by PS Deputies Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.]] It was in this spirit that the PSD Members left. The service is in a state of absolute degradation, with patients piled up, under inhuman and outraged conditions, unthinkable in a European Union country. [[Protests by PS Deputies Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.]] I shall be told by the Minister — that is what she will answer — that an invitation has been opened to install the emergency services. And I answer that this competition is going to be late because the work has been completed for a long time and the patients installed in the right conditions of comfort and safety. in this hospital, which has a very serious financial sustainability problem, there is still a huge shortage of staff—more than 70 missing doctors, Mrs Minister! [[Protests by PS Deputies Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.]] But the Setúbal Hospital Center is not a single case, far from it! At Santa Maria Hospital, the degradation of services and the lack of professionals led to dozens of emergency team leaders threatening to resign this month. At the Portuguese Institute of Oncology there is a deficit of more than 300 health professionals, especially nurses, as well as doctors and operational technical assistants. In the Local Health Unit of Guarda, EPE, Hospital Sousa Martins has an average waiting time of 593 days for ophthalmology and surgical consultations not performed 2 years ago! At Braga Hospital, it was also mentioned here, more than a dozen chiefs of emergency resigned a month ago because of the lack of working conditions. Mrs. Minister, this is the real country we and the Portuguese know. What I ask you is how it is possible to make such a difference between fiction and its reality, the reality which attempts to come here to show Parliament but which is not what the Portuguese know! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u98	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister, the National Health Service has an irreplaceable role in guaranteeing the right to health, an irreplaceable role in ensuring population access to health care. That is why the PCP has brought and presented solutions precisely to strengthen the conditions of the National Health Service, which not only go through strengthening and valuing health professionals as measures to fix these professionals and also through the means and equipment of the National Health Service. In the face of these insufficiency and difficulties, the PCP does not hide them, presents solutions, in particular with regard to the modernization of the diagnostic and therapeutic capacity installed in the National Health Service. The National Health Service, due to its insufficiency in response capacity in complementary means of diagnosis and therapy is the source of funding for the private and economic groups that profit from the disease business. That is why we have this proposal and these measures. Is the Minister available to strengthen the capacity of the National Health Service with more complementary means of diagnosis, especially in our hospitals? I give you an example, Mrs. Minister: Beja's imaging service cannot receive internal doctors, to learn, in the radiology service. But if you can't get them to learn, you don't have the conditions to fix them, to work there. This is an example of the degradation of public services. Madam Minister, I would also like to tell you about the recovery of delays, particularly in primary health care. Ms. Minister, if health professionals, in short supply, especially family doctors, that there is an absolute shortage in most of the regions of our country, are directed to the ADRs ( Areas Dedicated to Respiratory Diseases), are directed to vaccination, are directed to screenings, how can we respond to the difficulties, in particular, how are we to respond and follow up on chronic disease? That's what's put on. Mrs. Minister, I invite you to visit health centres, such as the Almodóvar Health Centre, where today the waiting room will be full of users, without care, due to lack of a family doctor. A health center that should have six family doctors at work only has three and, next year, will have two, because one of them will retire. of the eight planned extensions, only two open. This is the reality of people's lives, with regard to primary health care. So, Minister, I want to ask you who is on the side of the National Health Service and who is on the side of the economic groups. Does the Minister remember the emergency plan that we presented in this House last year? It was the PS, the PSD and the CDS that voted against. If this plan had been approved today, we would have other conditions to respond at the National Health Service. Therefore, Minister, tell us whether you are on the side of the National Health Service or whether you are on the side of the economic groups that win the disease business. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u100	Mr Rui Cristina, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health, the question, unfortunately without a reply, which already indicates a loud disregard for the algae, is only one: why do they continue, year after year, not to include the construction of the new central hospital of the Algarve in the State Budget? by the citizens of Algarve, in defense of health in the Algarve, I repeat: why the construction of the hospital has no reference in the program Portugal 2030? And how dare the Minister make promises that the construction of the hospital would "stop being a mirage"? What did you do to stop being a mirage, Minister? I say: nothing! Zero! Zero references in the State budget, zero references in the Portugal 2030 programme, zero references in the PRR! We still remember of such 50,000 euros that a PS government spent launching the first stone of the central hospital of the Algarve. The facts are clear: the situation of the National Health Service in the Algarve is very bad, it is degrading. And this precedes the health crisis, it is not a reality created by this pandemic. Emergency services are broken, which is intensified in the summer, when the population triples, due to national and foreign visitors. It is essential, it is urgent to invest in health units in the Algarve, in human resources, in structures, in technical resources that decrease the huge waiting lists for exams, consultations or surgeries. Facts, Minister : more than 1 million Portuguese continue to have no family doctor. And only in the Algarve — data from the SNS Portal — 85,000 users do not have a family doctor. Another example, Mrs. Minister : at the beginning of this year, according to data reported to the clinical direction of the CHUA, for 122 patients identified with oncological pathology, only 19 interventions were scheduled. How is this possible? But there's more. About 90% of the nurses at the Algarve University Hospital Center declared an excuse for responsibilities due to lack of conditions for care. And the lack of professionals remains, as evidenced by the fact that the CHUA has one of the worst nurse ratios in SNS hospitals. An immediate intervention is needed to strengthen staff in hospital emergencies, but also in other services. It was this government that reduced the total expenditure of the CHUA in the years 2019, 2020 and 2021. What we, the Algarves, want and demand is that the money taken back and increased the investment in health in the Algarve be returned. It is a requirement that we will continue to do always, because it is inconceivable that there is no investment in Algarve health units when they have long been on the brink of collapse. We no longer have enough of Mr. Prime Minister's recurring reply that "who wins in the Algarve is the PS", as if this would cure someone or solve the problems of the patients. Have respect for the Algarve! Have respect for the citizens! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u102	You now have the floor to Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u103	Mr President, Minister of Health, in the context of mental health promotion, there is much to be done and there are serious problems that require rapid response. This is the case with the Metropolitan Urgency of Psychiatry of Porto, where almost everything is missing and there are patients in excess, as a result of health response concentration options that the PCP does not follow and whose negative results are very visible. The profound changes caused by COVID-19 in people's daily lives have had — and still have — impacts on their mental health and psychological well-being and require action to ensure the universal provision of health care of proximity and quality. This is what the PCP proposes and that the country needs: community services, connected with hospital services and primary health care; regular coverage of hospital services of psychiatry and mental health, without asymmetries; more workers of all health professions — doctors, nurses, psychologists and other mental health technicians — valuing careers and their placement where they are most lacking, and more investment. It is not admissible, Mrs. Minister, that the contract for the hiring of 40 psychologists in 2018 is not yet completed. Also at the level of public health, it is necessary to ensure that it is learned from recent history. The epidemic confirmed the importance of the existence of a strong public health structure, with interventional capacity in the prevention and promotion of health, close to the communities, as the CFP has always defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u105	However, sufficient means and workers are still lacking and with stable links for tracking, identifying outbreaks and breaking transmission chains. In order to overcome difficulties and correct mistakes and failures in the future, problems must be solved at present. Adjournment is aggravating. Mr Minister, what answers will the Government give in the area of mental health and for the effective strengthening of the public health structure? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u106	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u107	Mr President, Minister of Health, in 2019, we talked about a lack of reports ; in 2021 the SNS works online and it is necessary to plan while deciding what is intended to be done to this cardiology unit and it keeps gaining dust. And gaining dust is the least because opening this unit reduces the risks these patients run, decreases the waiting time and reduces the duration of the hospitalizations and the complications that occur there. How much did he save? How much quality was given to these patients? How much does it cost to send these patients to Braga? Perhaps, this is also managing, perhaps, this is also networking. I would therefore like to ask you whether these questions I have raised do not influence the urgent reopening of that space. Turning back to what I said in my first speech, we must not forget that there are problems that remain in the SNS, and the Minister even agreed with me, and that they are aggravated above all by the absence of measures — of the full responsibility of the PS — these measures which are undoubtedly passed by three priorities, the first of which is the appreciation of the professionals of the SNS, preventing the current bleeding from leaving the private sector. This will be the priority of the government's priorities, but it will only let more doctors, nurses, technicians and assistants run away if you want. The second priority concerns installations. We need to build the hospitals in need, some of which have been budgeted for years. The third is the acquisition of missing equipment, to enhance the entire capacity of the SNS, not giving money to the private. These measures must be taken as urgent, as a genuine national priority. But as long as it does not implement them, there are many other simple ones to realize. Mrs. Minister, we would like to mention and ask some questions about access to health care in the area of diabetes. As you are aware, there are many reports and reports of delays in the examinations of the ‘diabetic feet’, especially because these examinations cannot be replaced by online consultations or by telephone. Diagnosis and follow-up tests are delayed. The effects of these delays will only be seen later. Mr Minister, in the State Budget for 2020, it was approved to extend the freeness of insulin continuous subcutaneous infusion devices known as ‘insulin pumps’ to adults with diabetes. This measure, originally planned for 2021, is still to be carried out, although it allows for an exponential improvement in the quality of life and control of the disease. We therefore ask what is due to the delay in promoting this enlargement, which is having serious impact on the lives of these people, and we also ask about the situation of screening.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u108	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the time of intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u109	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm really finishing. We are still questioning the fact that the examinations are not being carried out in the Guard. We would like to know what this situation is due to and whether the Minister knows this about diabetes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u110	For the last request for clarification, I give the floor to Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u111	Mr President, Minister of Health, primary health care is on the streets of bitterness. There are tens of those who are locked up, there are hundreds who are working badly. I give you examples: in Caldas da Rainha, Rostos, in Landal ; in Óbidos ; in Ancião ; in Santa Catarina ; in Á-dos-Francos. It is these users who, at the end of the day, have no assistance, go to the urgent hospitals and "find" the hospitals. And because we speak in hospitals, in hospitals of excellence, in Leiria hospital, in the Queen's Caldas hospital, Mrs. Minister knows very well what's going on. Quickly, do the West Hospital in the Queen's Horses, because what is happening there is inhumane, Mrs. Minister : lack of dignity, users piled up in the corridors, in the monkeys, with difficulties, and some end up dying without dignity in these corridors. This is a shame for the Minister of Health! [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] I've always heard from the Socialist Party what SNS is and the fatherhood of the SNS, but he's in collapse, Mrs. Minister, and the collapse has a fault. And, you know, guilt can't die single: it's your fault, because it's the Minister of Health! Thousands of consultations are unmarked, thousands of surgeries are unprogrammed, rather than programmed, professionals are demotivated, exhausted. All of this results from the Ministry of Health policy. Mrs. Minister, I know you're gonna answer me with a smile, but that smile is what users don't have when they're in the health units,...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u112	Don't be silly! Lack of respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u113	...when they're in hospitals. They don't have a chance to have that smile because they live difficult times and some don't even have a chance to smile again because they don't have the right assistance. [[PS protests.]] You know, Mrs. Minister, these are indeed the unbearable truths: look at the National Health Service, see what the Ministry of Health is doing by the National Health Service and how it is doing. And, Mrs. Minister, I'm telling you again, there's a fault and she has to be assumed, because of her responsibility in the Ministry of Health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u114	You now have the floor to answer this vast set of questions, Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Hugo Oliveira, the only responsible for health policy in Portugal is the Minister of Health, who is here in front of you, and who comes here with all the hombreity, whenever this House demands you, to answer for what runs well, and there is much that runs well, and for what is not right, and to tell this House and the Portuguese who continues to work, despite all the demagogy, ideology and noise that is going to be done around the National Health Service, and there are many who do this life because they know that after they leave the places they will, circumspectly, return to the National Health Service, knowing that this is the last reduced of those who have no more means, more alternatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They continue to work every day, because they believe in a society other than that in which many believe, working to defend a quality social state and public services. Not services that don't answer phones, which embarrass us, not public services where people still don't have the waiting conditions that we would like, that we're also ashamed, but that we don't repudiate. We keep trying to improve. That's the difference between us. [[He can't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u116	Get it, get it! Get as many as you can. These problems are not exclusive to the Portuguese National Health Service. This is the cover of El País: « half a million Madridans on a waiting list 18 months ago». At this point, the speaker displayed the cover of the Spanish newspaper El País. [[PSD protests.]] I'm the Guardian's cover : « NHS (National Health Service ) : managers complain about being exhausted. Do not keep on seeking. ” At this point, the speaker displayed the cover of the British newspaper TheGuardian. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u117	This is not the English Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for letting the Minister of Health speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u119	Health is a sector of political dispute, but above all it is an essential sector for citizens, for Portuguese, and it is for them that we work and for them we intend to serve and clarify. As for Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo's questions, yes, if the Portuguese give us their confidence, it will be with the same programme of strengthening the National Health Service, strengthening the public services that we will present to strengthen the National Health Service, improving the working conditions of health professionals and betting, above all, on an increasingly robust network of responses in the field of public health and social responses. With regard to the questions raised about the waiting lists and the fragility they encounter in relation to a set of aspects, I would like to say to them, in a very clear way, what happens in the hospitals that have been evoked. At the Setúbal Hospital Center, yes, it took longer than we would like to launch the work of remodeling the emergency building, but it was also necessary to use this space to ensure, although in conditions below our wish, the response to the pandemic. And yes, the job is launched and, yes, we have to build, as there are 401 health professionals. Between 2015 and 2021, there are 401 professionals who work at the Setúbal Hospital Center. How would we be if they weren't there? [[P.S.'s applause.]] NoIPO (English Institute of Oncology) in Lisbon are plus 224 health professionals and in the Hospital Center of Algarve, Mr. Rui Cristina, 924 professionals... [[PSD protests.]] Yes, yes, 924 professionals...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u120	I have clear indicators that there is a lack of professionals, that there is a need for technical assistants!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u121	Technical assistants? Technical assistants are 54. Doctors? It's 78. Nurses? It's 351. Senior health and pharmaceutical technicians? It's 16. Higher diagnostic and therapeutic techniques ( TSDT )? That's 117. Operational assistants? It's 221. [[P.S.'s applause.]] How did you want people to answer the phones before? Do you think it's easy to do this in a fingerbrush? I will continue to refer to the health services referred to. In the Local Health Care Unit, there are 575 health professionals, including 17 doctors, 22 internal physicians, 179 nurses, 35 SDT, 55 technical assistants, 234 operational assistants. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, yes, there are a set of responses in the Local Guard Health Unit, in terms of waiting lists, which is gradually improving. And, yes, there was also a problem related to the remodeling of a hospital that was successively postponed and that is now, finally, with the contract to be launched.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u123	As for the new central hospital of the Algarve, the state in which we found the process has been repeated several times the process in this House: the public-private construction partnership was suspended. What we have systematically sought to do over these several months is to take advantage of this public-private partnership of construction. This is a complex process, legally very long and very demanding. If it is possible to use this partnership to carry out this investment in public-private partnership, that is what we will do. Only in extreme situations will we give up on this solution, because this could be the only way out that we have legally left, but it will involve a process which has already taken a very long time. Regarding questions about the metropolitan urgency of Porto, Mrs Ana Mesquita, the model of the metropolitan emergencies is particularly demanding, especially in the coordination between the various institutions, so that on the day following the admission of the patient he may be sent to the hospital responsible in terms of his geographical area and thus remain closer to his family structure. This model of metropolitan urgency has proven to work well. The fact is that the Metropolitan Urgency of Psychiatry of Porto needs to be reformulated. It is a circumstance that has been placed on the table by the technicians, taken over by the Regional Health Administration, which has the involvement of all hospitals present in this system and which will certainly be overcome with work, with better articulation. With regard to the selection contest of 40 psychologists, yes, the mechanisms of entry into the Public Administration are durable, but, yes, we propose that there be more autonomy and new rules for contracts and that, against many who understand that we are not in a position to do, a new Statute of the National Health Service is approved, with new rules that allow greater flexibility in the provision of health care. Regarding the public health area, I would like to point out that what was possible throughout this legislature was a strengthening of the number of public health doctors and an investment in public health as probably there has never been, even because of the pandemic circumstances, to which we will never turn our backs. It was therefore that we made the investment that we made in more than 300 million euros in vaccines, that we will continue to do over the years of 2022 and 2023, with resources that we have already ensured. Mrs Mariana Silva, I apologize to you for saying this but there are two ways to structure the National Health Service: one is to build a hospital and demand that if you have a convention, another is to make a construction, an offer, an answer, which we do not have the conditions to use in the most efficient way because human resources are the most scarce and we cannot have them everywhere. So we all know that concentration is better quality. It needs to be complemented by good transport, good references, good joints, and that is what people on the spot are working on. If we are asked for autonomy for the institutions, it should also be for the institutions that are then asked about the answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u124	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u125	Finally, perhaps the subject that, again, is more of a concern to Portuguese people: the topic of family doctors. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fact that we have around 10 % registered in the SNS today in the National Register of Users who do not have a family doctor. It is the same value that we had at the beginning of the previous legislature, but if you think nothing has been done, you are wrong. As I said, there are more than 852 family doctors, but there are more than 400,000 enrolled in the National Health Service — they are people living in the country, who came to the vaccination and who were registered, they are people who deserve health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u127	They are people that are available and that we will not fail to... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that we will not fail to try, even if it politically has a price, the price of a commitment that persists to escape under our feet, but that, once again, we will not give up working to achieve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u128	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the debate on health policy is essential. All of us, as users, know how important it is to have access to health care in the National Health Service. Still, there were those who wanted to come for this debate to record an antenna time for the upcoming elections. The PSD has come to this debate to go through a government that will not be and the PS has come to this debate to realize that it has government results that it does not have because it did not want to have. When we hear the PSD speak in this debate, trying to design itself in the future, we only remember, in fact, the past, because the solutions are exactly the same: cut in the budget of the National Health Service, divert the budget of the National Health Service to the private sector, with the consequences that it has already had in the past: debase the National Health Service to transfer this money to those who then, when beating a pandemic at the door of the country, completely flee the land and refuse to provide the minimum of assistance to the population. The PS, as much as it tries to show results, in a sort of road show training, cannot forget that, at a certain time in the previous legislature and already in this legislature, it wanted to be a brake and not an advance to the National Health Service. Today, we have another million users without a family doctor in Portugal and the blame is not due to the fact that there are more people enrolled in the National Health Service. The blame lies on the fact that you are not capturing, fixing and hiring doctors that the National Health Service itself acts as specialists in general and family medicine. Someone talked about investing in the Sintra Health Center. I give another example: in Sintra, where there are more than 100,000 users without a family doctor, they were opened in the last contest for the hiring of 29 family doctors. Only five were occupied. Five in 29! It wasn't because of lack of doctors. These doctors had just been trained in the National Health Service, had finished their specialization in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u131	However, 24 vacancies in Sintra were left to be occupied. Why? Because the Government has decided not to listen to recommendations in time, for example from the Left Block, to increase the attractiveness of the National Health Service, to improve careers, to put exclusivity as a condition, or as an option, for these professionals to have better working conditions. But we can talk about other areas, such as investment: the State budget has provided EUR 180 million since 2020 for the internalisation of complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means. Nothing has been done in this matter. The conclusion, and the result, is that the money is not executed for complementary means of diagnosis and therapy in the National Health Service, but then 500 million euros are spent, per year, to be hired out, what the National Health Service should be doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u132	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u133	Words of the Clinical Director of the Setúbal Hospital Center : « What this Setúbal Hospital Center spends hiring magnetic resonances in private gave to buy a machine for the Setúbal Hospital Center every two years». Every two years he gave himself a structural investment in this Hospital Center! Much has been said about the status of the National Health Service, so let's go to this debate. The proposal for a statute which the Government has submitted and put in public consultation continues to provide for the possibility of public-private partnerships, provides for private providers to be able to integrate the National Health Service and provides for the assignment of hospital services—and I am referring to what is in the Government's proposal. Therefore, this is a serious step back from what had been done, in particular, in the debate on the Basics of Health Law. The statute for the National Health Service, which is proposed by the Government, once again entangles the National Health Service in the promiscuity between the public and the private. And we know that, in this promiscuity, those who lose are always the public, those who lose are always the SNS and, with this, those who lose are always the users of the National Health Service. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country is not condemned to choose between the return to the past, proposed by the PSD, or stagnation in the problems of the present, proposed by the Socialist Party. Fortunately, the National Health Service can be much more than the PSD and PS want it to be. Therefore, the Left Block is here, as it has always been and as it will always be, for the strengthening of the National Health Service. Yes, with the establishment of professionals, moving forward with exclusivity and completely revising the careers of the various professionals and professional groups of the National Health Service, in particular their remuneration. Yes, investing where it is necessary to invest and not place investments on paper so that they will never leave, as has happened in recent years. Interestingly, or not, today, in this debate, we continue to debate the Algarve hospital, the Barcelos hospital, the expansion of the Beja hospital, the Eastern Lisbon hospital, all of them spoken and propagated since 2016 and without any advance, six years later. So, yeah, with a serious investment, but seriously too, and that's why the Left Block is here. And yes, with real autonomy of the institutions, to meet their needs and those of the population they serve.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u134	I would like to draw your attention to time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u135	I will finish, Mr. President. Fortunately, the National Health Service and the country are not sentenced to PS or PSD because the Left Block is here for this alternative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u136	Mr Bruno Aragão, of the PS, was appointed to request clarification. I assume you have maintained this request despite Mr Moisés Ferreira's lack of time to respond. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u137	Mr President, we have turned the request for clarification into a matter for reflection, which is very important. Allow me, Mr Moses Ferreira, to tell you, with the same tranquility, that there is no attraction to the central block, but, after the lead of the State budget, there seems indeed to be an attraction of the Left Block to the abyss. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the central issue here has to do with the following: the Left Block has done a lot of intervention and permanent demand for investment in the National Health Service — and well, legitimately. But there is, in this permanent intervention, a doubt that remains. The claim of the Left Block was: in 2018, to save the SNS, in 2019, to save the SNS from dismantling, in 2020, to save the SNS, for the sake of all, and in 2021, to win Bethlehem to save the SNS. And now, more recently, about a State Budget that had reinforcements for the National Health Service and that you have dropped, they say that « saving the SNS is our commitment». Year after year, moment after moment, there is the announcement of a impending disaster that, fortunately, for the benefit of the Portuguese, never happened. But let's not get away from it. And this is so relevant to the question for reflection that I leave to you, as to Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, who, having not seen the devil appear today, tries to actually bring hell to this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the question is very simple. There are, in fact, Portuguese people who do not have a family doctor, but there are many who have certainly already reported the incredible way in which they were treated.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u139	There are, in fact, challenges facing the waiting lists. But, as you certainly know, there is a programme of combat and incentive which has undeniably allowed recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u141	There is a response to COVID-19 which is still necessary. But, as you certainly know, Portugal is one of the countries with the highest rate of vaccination, and Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite will certainly remember the number of times that chaos has been unleashed here. Therefore, the question is very simple: the SNS is not an imminent disaster, it is even a permanent construction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the question is whether they are willing to continue this permanent construction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u142	The answer will be another time and by other means, Mr. For an intervention you now have the floor of Mr Miguel Arrobas of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u143	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is appropriate to call on the Government on health, a key issue for the CDS and which at the end of this legislature deserves to make a balance sheet of what these six years of socialist government have been. Starting with the resignations, in the XIII Legislation, with the Government of Management, there were more than 200 resignations of doctors, service directors and hospital boards, from north to south of the country. in this legislature, there are constant reports of resignations and applications for resignation in hospitals throughout Portugal. Is it to understand that everything is okay? Of course not. What do these resignations have in common? Lack of working conditions, lack of resolution of problems that have been dragged down for years, inexhaustible emergency scales, failure to provide essential services, lack of investment, lack of adequate equipment and facilities. According to the Independent Medical Union, the country currently has the following seven hospitals in critical state: Castelo Branco, Leiria, Faro, Torres Vedras, Vila Franca de Xira, Beja and Setúbal, beyond the maternity wards of Great Lisbon. As much as they try to argue otherwise, this is the result of six years of socialist governance. And, if we remember the promised hospitals, we have: the hospital of Eastern Lisbon, which is a project that already comes from the PSD Government / CDS and, in 2012, came to open a public contest, having the former Minister of Health, Prof. Adalberto Campos Fernandes, said this hospital would be completed in early 2021 ; Sintra hospital ; Seixal hospital ; Alentejo central hospital ( new Évora hospital ) ; Madeira new hospital. How many of these already exist and are in operation? None. With regard to emergency services, let us say that hospital emergencies are not, nor should they be, the “door of entry” of the National Health Service. And if, on the one hand, this pandemic came to substantially diminish the use of emergencies, on the other hand, a plan had to be created and put in place so that false emergencies would not once again haunt hospitals. There are still numerous reported cases of full emergency services. What did the government do? What planned and implemented to change the paradigm prior to the pandemic of unnecessary resources to hospital emergencies? Nothing. Let us not forget the autonomy of hospitals. The CDS defends it for hiring professionals. It was thanks to a bill of ours that, in the previous legislation, was published Law No. 87 / 2019 of 3 September on strengthening the autonomy of the entities of the National Health Service for the hiring of human resources. However, despite this Law and even the new Health Bases Act, this autonomy was not effectively given to hospitals. The COVID-19 pandemic was necessary for the government to realize the importance of autonomy and that of it to hospitals so that they could hire the professionals they needed to meet the needs and be able to ensure this immediate response. It is regrettable that such a tragedy has been necessary for the Government to give in to compliance with the law. The question we put is very simple and direct: does the Socialist Party intend to maintain this autonomy in SNS hospitals or will we see hospital administrators again in despair for failing to recruit the human resources they need? As for the waiting lists for consultations and surgeries, the maximum guaranteed response times ( TMRG ) have been increasingly disrespected, increasing the waiting lists, impairing access to the National Health Service, especially the most vulnerable and deprived population. It is essential to ensure universal and equitable access to health, reducing waiting times and preventing a person from expecting more than the established TMRG. For the CDS, the question to answer, now and for the future, is this: how to ensure access to health care in time and hours for all? We need the SNS as a fundamental medium, but not as an end in itself. A means that, being paid by taxpayers, must be financed efficiently according to the health gains obtained and not according to the number of acts produced, and must fix health professionals, because they pay and hold them accountable, and not because they are tied to staying. Investment in the SNS was not enough to meet the needs in these six years of socialist government. We have been alerting for the urgency of the implementation of a planned and effective human resources policy and for the need to change the model of funding for hospitals, so that it will become based on results. We call on the obvious need for a healthy complementarity between the public, private and social sectors. It happens that because of pure ideological prejudice on the left, all of our proposals have always been rejected. It is impossible to remember yet that, with the so-called reform of primary health care (CSP), the government had promised, until the end of the XIII legislature, to give a family doctor to each Portuguese. However, he eventually recognized that he would not be able to fulfill this promise anymore and, at the end of the previous legislature, we still had 740,000 Portuguese without a family doctor. In addition, data relating to the primary health care care movement are worrying, since it is observed that between 2019 and 2020 there were the following reductions : presence medical consultations, less 38, 5 % ; medical households, less 37, 0 %; supplementary care / open consultation, less 16, 7 %; total nursing consultations, less 14, 4 %; total consultations of other health technicians, less 18, 8 %. By contrast, it is found that the non-present consultations had an increase of 100, 4 %. However, telemedicine should not be summarized as telephone contacts and the recovery of activity in primary health care should not be "masked" with the increase in teleconsultations. Of course, the CDS cannot stop talking about palliative care. contrary to what the government has always stated, that palliative care would be a priority, the universal coverage of these care, in our country, is far from being achieved, with deep asymmetries, either geographically or at the level of types of care. However, in such a sensitive area it is not acceptable for the Government to provide an adequate response. in these six years of government, to develop this area, nothing has been done. The CDS proposed more beds, more teams, more home support, more training specialized in this area; we called for the absence, for about eight months, of a new strategic plan for palliative care. But what has the Socialist Party done now, as soon as you realized that the President of the Republic would proceed to the dissolution of Parliament? He quickly approved euthanasia. This was the Socialist Party's answer to the sick people in the end of life: death on demand. That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u144	What a horror!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u145	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. Members: As the CDS has warned, during these six years, the socialist government's health policies have had a dramatic impact on people. Despite contracts, there has been a growing lack of human resources to meet the needs. We can only conclude that Portuguese access to health care has, in fact, been compromised. Health professionals are not satisfied and have legitimate reasons to complain much more than promises. With management, and after multiple promises that austerity would end and that the SNS would be a priority, the fact is that we arrived at the end of the previous legislature with a situation of very serious difficulties. It was the CDS who said it here, but it was also, and above all, the various orders of health professionals who reaffirmed it, with complaints that all should have worried; it was the association of hospital administrators and were the reports of the reality of the health services that arrived to us every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u146	I would like to draw your attention to time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u147	I will finish, Mr. President. in these six years of socialist government, it was delapied a heritage that is of all, the SNS, heritage that the CDS defends intransigently as a pillar of social cohesion that guarantees everyone's access to health. The fragility and vulnerability of the SNS, aggravated by the pandemic, are in sight of all and is undeniable. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u148	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 345 000 registered in the SNS, almost 1000 this year alone. How can the PSD want to be an alternative and Mr Baptista Leite aspirant to the Minister of Health...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u150	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u151	... when, in view of this reality, comes here to say that the Portuguese don't trust the SNS, they're afraid of not having an answer in the SNS,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... answer that today, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after two years of pandemic, recovers for the best numbers of 2019? Health, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, it is resolved with ideology, because ideology means political choices and when the PSD says that all Portuguese would have consultations and surgeries at the time, if the PSD were government, it would mean sending the Portuguese to the private, strengthening the private in which it is easy... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to leave to the SNS what the private doesn't want and insurance doesn't pay nor could they pay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] 17 questions were addressed to the PSD and, to answer these questions, they spent only two minutes, which means, more than anything else, the PSD's inability to keep the discourse that the SNS is sick, when confronted with the reality of a country that proves that today, in 2021, the SNS is better than it was in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You mean it's okay? That there's no problem? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. It means that as irresponsible as saying that it's all right is saying that it's all wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD discourse that SNS is in collapse is not only true, fortunately, as nothing less than an unacceptable instrumentalization of Portuguese with health problems. The Portuguese and Portuguese who now enroll in the SNS, because they trust that they have more response in the SNS, because they like and say well about the SNS, they are also Portuguese and this Assembly of the Republic also represents them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u152	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u153	By the way, sirs. Members, health professionals who, even with the pandemic, are exhausted, continue to give everything for everything so that the numbers of hospital consultations of family medicine, surgeries, cancer screening also increase should be mentioned and greeted by us, because they keep the SNS as it is... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and not only the professionals who freely choose to go to the private, as did the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u154	Madam Member, I would like to thank you for finishing your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u155	Who is in this debate — and I conclude, Mr President — to defend the universal SNS and who leaves no one behind is this Government and this Parliamentary Group. The PS will continue to work for a quality SNS for everyone. Madam Minister, it is fair to say this in this debate: it is with women of their fiber, their competence, their ideological strength, their capacity...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u156	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u157	...to face and assume the problems that have not been solved, in the same way that takes the results, that the Portuguese can count and that the SNS will never go into collapse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u158	With regard to the vote currently taking place on the election of the Ombudsman, I would like to inform the honourable Members. Members who will remain open until 15 minutes after the end of our work. We are now moving on to the closing of the debate. To that end, Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this last debate on the health of this legislature, it is the exact time to make a balance sheet on the results of the Socialist Government's action. It is therefore time to assess the difference between political propaganda and the concrete reality our people face every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u161	The Government's propaganda, in the words of the Prime Minister himself, promised that in 2017 all Portuguese would have a family doctor assigned. Today, six years after this promise, the truth is that more than a million Portuguese people simply do not have a family doctor. They do not know what to do when they need to deal with one of the most important values of their lives, which is surely their health. At first, the Socialist Party's propaganda promised to increase people's accessibility to the National Health Service. Today, six years later, the reality is that more than 200,000 patients are waiting for surgery. Even worse: in recent years, average waiting times have increased by comparison to 2015. In hospital consultations, the percentage of attendances performed, in addition to the maximum guaranteed response times, which was 26 % in 2015, is now 40%. The reality reveals to us an SNS on the verge of chaos, with hospitals close to the state of calamity, with emergencies in rupture and patients hospitalized, for days, in the corridors of circulation, or even in a garage, as happens at Vila Franca de Xira Hospital. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u162	Today, the country sees, unbelieving, early in the morning, rows of desperate users at the door of health centres to try to get the consultation they have right. But to all this reality, which the government irresponsibly devalues, still belongs the frustration and demotivating of SNS professionals, many of them in burnout, without decent working conditions, without a fair recognition and with weak expectations of professional achievement. [[PSD applause.]] Recently confronted with the enormous breakdown of the care activity of the SNS, with millions of presence consultations, emergency care, oncology screenings and surgeries not performed, the Minister of Health said she followed these alerts with concern. The fact is that a government does not ask for concern, action and capacity are required to solve problems as serious as those which so much torment the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] It is up to the Government to have known the reality and to have mobilized the whole health system that Portugal has installed at the level of its three fundamental sectors: the public, the private and the social, because ideological prejudices cannot be a barrier to people's health. [[PSD applause.]] The public-private partnerships, which this Government has insisted on rejecting, must be negotiated with balance and seriousness on the part of the party, because, if so, they can represent a significant added value for the State and for the populations. On the other hand, unlike the official narrative, also during the pandemic period, the government did not meet its responsibilities, because, tied to ideological taboos, it refused to promote the necessary collaboration between the public and the private, sending SNS users, especially in the cases of cardiovascular and oncological diseases, to whom it could treat them. [[PSD applause.]] This refusal contributed to Portugal being one of the countries with the highest non-COVID overmortality, as a report from the OECD has still been revealed today. In Portugal, more than 7000 people died from non-COVID causes due to the average of the last five years, a number of avalanche deaths whose causes in a civilized country should be duly ascertained. Faced with this reality, they do not surprise the successive resignations of dozens of doctors responsible for hospital services, as has happened in Braga, Leiria, Setúbal, Porto or Lisbon. This is the state of the National Health Service, after the six years of socialist governance, we can only conclude that its final results are bad and that many Portuguese have seriously damaged. As regards health policy, the PS government, which has now ceased to function, has failed. It failed because it not only did not fulfill what it promised, as it still allowed to degrade the situation it inherited. Mr President, Portugal must change rapidly not only its health policy but also its main players. It is necessary to defend the health of Portuguese and, fundamentally, to ensure full compliance with their constitutional rights. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u163	For the end of the debate by the Government, the Minister for Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The centrality of health issues in our lives and our concerns shows that those in this House were right to choose a health system based on the National Health Service for Portugal and the Portuguese. The National Health Service continues to be one of the main tools to combat inequalities and has overcome many difficult trials in the context of the current pandemic crisis of the COVID-19. They're daily evidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who want this generous idea, as Antonio Arnaut called it, to remain and strengthen themselves now have a special responsibility and will then have a choice to make. They have the political responsibility to continue to prioritize a public model of health system that guarantees universal protection, preventive care, curative care and rehabilitation, trending freeness, end of moderation rates, because it was certainly much easier to bind the responsibility of the State to issue cheques and vouchers for gross acts and dependent on market availability, but that would not help people better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who want this generous idea to remain and strengthen themselves have a financial responsibility to maintain a resource allocation that ensures its sustainability, because the health needs of a population demographically aged and affected by the weight of comorbidities will always be increasing. Those who want this generous idea to remain and strengthen have a ethical responsibility to respect the National Health Service, as a school and master of generations and generations of health professionals, because there is a mutual obligation of cooperation and improvement, not of restlessness and restlessness, not of lack of responsibility. Our responsibilities are inalienable. Those who want this generous idea to be strengthened and strengthened have the social responsibility to use health services efficiently, to seek responsible behaviors in terms of individual health and social health, because we are all responsible and we all have a role to play. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today there are more than 28 000 workers in the National Health Service. There are over 11 000 nurses, plus 4000 medical specialists, plus 852 general and family medicine doctors, plus 64 public health doctors. Today there is a National Health Service which has an investment of more than 3200 million euros. Today there are more means, there are more resources, there is more investment today. But our responsibility now is to invest in the organization. It is the citizen's responsibility not to use demagogy, not to give in to demagogy, but to inform, with clarity and transparency, what our political choices are. And that's what we do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is experiencing a new growth in cases of infection. Again are times of great demand those in which we continue to live. And it is not difficult to imagine what health would be in Portugal with a model of health system that some insist on defending, based on insurance, with the provision of mostly private care. Who would do disease prevention and health promotion? That's the question. Who would ensure that health centres and their extensions were available in places that are not economically profitable? Who would ensure intervention in care areas, financially inadequate, such as mental health? What is it, after all, for those reforming the SNS? Emergency measures, which only are listed and which only describe the objective? Reform measures? What do we know about the previous reforms? Those who took us pay, those who took us off our rights, those who took us away from our access, those who sought to weaken public health from all of us! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the most recent months have shown the resilience of the SNS, but also its weaknesses. That is why it is so important that we know how to take full advantage of each of the choices we have before us, each of the days that we have up to these choices to continue strengthening the National Health Service, the health of the Portuguese, because that is what they and them, out there, expect of us. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u165	Having concluded that this debate is here, I welcome and approve of the honourable Members. Members of the Government. of the third item on the agenda, without time allocated for discussion, is the motion for a resolution No 34 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the International Centre for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz concerning its Headquarters, signed in Lisbon on 29 October 2021. of the fourth point, also without time allocated for discussion, is the motion for a resolution No 35 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Services between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, signed in Lisbon on 2 July 2021. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the Rules of Procedure. 208 Members are present, so we have a quorum and we can start the votes. We begin with the Vote Project No 701 / XIV / 3. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and subscribed by PSD and PS Members ) — Congratulating Filipa Martins on the latest results in the World of Artistic gymnastics in Tokyo. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will do her best to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Filipa Martins, athlete of Acro Clube da Maia, conquered 7. the place at the end All-Around of the World Championship of Artistic Gyms, among the 24 competitors of high merit and quality. Filipa Martins also achieved the distinct 8. the place at the end of asymmetric parallels, being, once again, the first Portuguese athlete to participate in the final by devices at the World Championship of Artistic Gymnastics. The athlete, who began to practice gymnastics at the age of four at the Sport Club do Porto, achieves in this test results never previously achieved by any Portuguese athlete. With these results, Filipa Martins exceeds its best ranking, 16. the place in the All-Around, reached in 2014, in China, the fact that it is demonstrative not only of its huge and distinct talent, but also of all the commitment, effort, dedication and resilience with which, daily and repeatedly over several years, it faces the practice of the modality. Already in April this year, Filipa Martins had made history at the European Championship of Artistic Gyms, presenting a new technical element of some complexity, named « Martins », and which was included in the international score code, with a value of 6 tenths. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the various performances of Filipa Martins, an athlete with a long and filled journey and which has long represented and elevated Portugal in the various competitions, which is a solid reason for pride for all Portuguese, making hopes that all success will be extended. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] [[General applause.]] It's a pleasure to see the Portuguese presence in the championships. In addition to football, we have gymnastics and yesterday we had the reissue of our great victories in hockey in skates, in a great game and with great pride for all of us, I'm sure. [[General applause.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 1506 / XIV / 3. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Angola. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 34 / XIV/ 3 is hereby followed. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the International Centre for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz concerning its Headquarters, signed in Lisbon on 29 October 2021. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and abstained from BE, PAN and PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 35 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Services between the Portuguese Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, signed in Lisbon on 2 July 2021. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] It is important to vote on draft resolution No 1490 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure a solution ensuring the transfer to the municipality of Carregal do Sal of the funds not covered by the European Regional Development Fund and necessary for the completion of the Project for the Requalification and Museumization of the Passal House. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and IL were cast in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 1508 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government, in conjunction with the city of Carregal do Sal, undertake an updated survey of financial and logistical needs to ensure national participation in the development of the Project of Rehabilitation and Museumization of the Casa do Passal. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u168	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u169	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u170	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the subject which we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1499 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — By integrated policies and speedy promotion of adoption. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP were approved.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1492/ XIV/3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that vacancies are accessible to 5. o and 7. the 2021 step are identical to the number of teachers who integrate the access lists on these two steps and who ensure a solution that guarantees the recovery of all the time of service of teachers who were suspended on the vacancies lists. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1456 / XIV / 3. a ( BE) — Removing obstacles to teacher progression to 5. a is 7. The steps. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 1505 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of the administrative imposition of vacancies for progression at 5. a is 7. the steps of the teaching career. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1006 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Make recommendations to the Government and the Foundation for Science and Technology, aiming at an urgent strengthening of investment in science and the scientific community in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and BE abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u172	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u173	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u174	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that we are going to make a written statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u175	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. The vote on draft resolution No 1500 / XIV / 3 is followed. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of measures for the dynamisation of the National Scientific and Technological System, combating precariousness and underfinancing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BEE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1501 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that fair conditions be guaranteed for access by teachers to the special inspection career of the General Inspection of Education and Science (IGEC). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL were adopted.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1126 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Measures to preserve and preserve pollinators and their habitats in national territory. [[We voted in favour of the PSS, the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 1361 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Ensures the valorization and dignity of forest slags and the improvement of their working conditions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1475 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Limit the creation of captive javales for kinetic activity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and IL and votes against the BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 954 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Strengthening the home support service with health care. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u176	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u177	Mrs Paula Santos, for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u178	Mr President, I would just like to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u179	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We then voted on draft resolution No 1472 / XIV/ 3. a ( BE ) — Extends the allocation of social pass + to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u180	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u181	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u182	Mr President, it is only to draw attention to the title of the draft resolution just announced. The title of the project is as follows: « Expands the allocation of social pass + to people with disabilities ». This is the designation which the Assembly of the Republic has decided to give in such situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u183	Mr President, no, I have read "deficit carriers" because that is how it should be said. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u184	Mr President, it is in the convention that that is not the designation.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u185	Let us then vote on draft resolution No 1472 / XIV / 3. a ( BE ) — Extends the allocation of social pass + to people with disabilities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 743 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement the IC8 portion between Pombal and Avelar ( Ansião ), with the inclusion of a low-level access node in the Camporês Business Park, and proceed to the cabimentation of financial resources. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Let's vote on Resolution Project No. 1173/XIV/2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of the portion of the CI8 between Pombal and Avelar ( Ansião ) and the cabimentation of the necessary financial resources. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 1019 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures for the non-exclusion of women from drug-assisted procreation procedures due to delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1098 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to safeguard the future of the drug procreation assisted in the SNS. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN.]] We shall proceed to the vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1105 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Plan to recover PMA activity in context of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the votes against the PCP and the ENP and the abstentions from PS, BE, PAN and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1093 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the response of assisted public reproductive health centres. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] It is important to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1502 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new central hospital in Algarve. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and ENP.]] We then generally vote on draft resolution No 1515 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ) — The urgent construction of the central hospital of Algarve. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 145 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Determines the restriction of night flights except for force majeure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstained.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 212 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the occurrence of night civil flights, except for emergency landings or other compelling reasons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstained.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 614 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Integration of the Safety Box of Lawyers and Applicants in Social Security. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 1497 / XIV / 3. a (PEV) — Recommends that the Government undertake to ensure that the right to a stable climate is declared human right. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 1422 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government combat pollutant emissions during the car stop, promoting emission reduction and improving air quality. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PCP and IL.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1428 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( ENP) — Preparation of the protected landscape planning plan of the Montejunto Mountains. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1512 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — By defending and valuing the protected area of the Montejunto greenhouse. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 1034 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — For the defense and protection of the river Lis. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 5 PS (António Gameiro, Elza Pais, Joël Bouça Gomes, Jorge Gabriel Martins and Sara Velez), votes against PS and the abstention of IL.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 790 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a treatment and recovery station and of pig effluents for depollution of the river Lis basin. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 5 PS (António Gameiro, Elza Pais, Joël Bouça Gomes, Jorge Gabriel Martins and Sara Velez), votes against PS and abstentions from PAN and IL.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u187	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u188	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will present a written statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u189	It is then noted that the NAP will present a declaration of vote in writing. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the general vote on draft resolution No 1020 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Urgent presentation of a solution to treat and value pig effluents that contribute to the depollution of the river Lis basin. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1057 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take all necessary and urgent measures to resolve immediately the environmental attacks in the Lis River basin. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 5 PS (António Gameiro, Elza Pais, Joël Bouça Gomes, Jorge Gabriel Martins and Sara Velez), votes against PS and the abstention of IL.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u190	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u191	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u192	Mr President, it is to announce that Mr. Jorge Gabriel Martins, Mr. Elza Pais, Mr. Sara Velez and Mr. Joël Gomes will present a written statement of vote on the last four draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u193	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we continue with the general vote on draft resolution No 1071 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By an action programme for depollution and requalification of the river Lis basin. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and the CDS-PP, PAN and IL abstentions.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u195	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u196	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will present a written statement of vote on these last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u197	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1460 / XIV / 3. a (BE) — Environmental and social protection at the Mira Rega Perimeter. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1494 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the protection of the territory of the Perimeter de Rega do Mira ( PRM ) and the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina ( PNSACV). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 1468 / XIV / 3. a ( PSD ) — Planning the environmental conversion of the Matosinhos refinery and involving the local population. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1513 / XIV / 3. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure support for the social and business fabric affected by the closure of the Galp refinery in Matosinhos and safeguard the environmental sustainability of the territory. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1487 / XIV / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government protect the Costa Terra resort area in Melides. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstained.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1507 / XIV / 3. a ( BE) — Environmental protection and protection of the public interest in the coastal range between Troy and Sines. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, on draft resolutions Nos 1294 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the dialogue with the US on decontamination and environmental risk prevention measures and 1357 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Discontamination of soils and aquifers under the Cooperation and Defence Agreement between Portugal and the United States of America. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We shall also vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 117 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Ensures compliance with agreements between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in respect of extradition and freezing, seizure and loss of property. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 111 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — regulates the use of surveillance systems by video cameras by security forces and services. [[Subject to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and votes against BE, PCP, PEV, IL, Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and 4 PS (Carla Sousa, Cláudia Santos, Hugo Oliveira and Isabel Alves Moreira).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u198	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u199	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u200	Mr President, it is to announce that we intend to make an oral vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u202	I would also like to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u203	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u204	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. We would also like to make an oral vote on this last vote and to that end I would like to point out to Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u205	Be registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In the end, we will make those verbal statements. Let's go on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the general vote of Bill No 798 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Criminalization of unjustified enrichment ( fifty-second amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March and seventh amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 799 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Bans the State from using arbitration as a form of dispute resolution in administrative and fiscal matters. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 749 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ) — Revocation of residence permits for investment activity ( visasgold ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 869 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The twentieth amendment is made to Law No 21 / 85 of 30 July, which approves the Statute of the Judiciary Judges, creating the crime of withholding income and unlawful enrichment and amending the conditions for the exercise of non-statutory functions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the NAP and the non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u207	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u208	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a written declaration of vote, individually, concerning the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 870 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The second amendment of Law No 68 / 2019 of 27 August approving the Statute of the Public Prosecutor's Office, creating the crime of withholding income and illicit enrichment and amending the conditions for the exercise of non-statutory functions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the NAP and the non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mr. João Piinho de Almeida asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u210	Mr President, that is to say that I will also make a written statement of vote on this vote individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u211	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. With no objection, we now vote in general, in general, on the speciality and in overall final vote, the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 90 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and related laws, implementing measures provided for in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Bills Nos. 875 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves measures to combat corruption and economic and financial crime by amending the Penal Code and related legislation and 876 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-eighth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by Decree-Law No 78 / 87 of 17 February. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u212	Mr President, it is in order to give the indication that we intend to make an oral statement on the overall final vote on this matter, which will be given by Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u213	Be registered. Mr João Oliveira also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u214	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I would add that the two oral explanations of vote of the CFP announced will be made by Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u215	Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u216	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote written on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Jorge Lacão, José Magalhães, Bacaler de Vasconcelos and Sérgio Sousa Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u217	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Bebiana Cunha also asked for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u218	Mr President, I would like to announce that we wish to make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u219	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. It will be carried out at the end of the vote. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes also asked for the floor. Is that so, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u220	Mr President, that is to say that the PSD will also make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u221	He also asked Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa to speak. It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u222	It is for the same purpose, Mr President. We will also make an oral vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u223	Mrs. Members, we then proceed to the general vote of Bill No 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July by extending reporting obligations and providing for mandatory communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the lack of indication of the facts that caused capital increases. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions against the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Ms Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 867 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the crime of withholding profits and revises the penalties applicable to liability crimes committed by holders of political and high public positions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstained from BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 881 / XIV / 2. a ( Unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Creates the crime of concealment of wealth in order to prevent corruption and increase public integrity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the NAP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on Bills Nos 805 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Creates the crime of unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth ( second amendment to the regime of the Exercise of Functions by holders of Political Charges and High Public Charges), 816 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, extending the reporting obligations and densifying the crime of concealment of enrichment, 843 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Extends the reporting obligations of the holders of political and high public positions and creates the crime of intentional concealment of enrichment, by making the second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July 860 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — The second amendment is made to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July with a view to preventing and combating unjustified enrichment and concealment of wealth, 867 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the crime of withholding profits and revises the penalties applicable to liability crimes committed by holders of political and high public positions, 874 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Strengthens the transparency duty imposed on holders of political positions and high public positions ( second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ), 877 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, extending reporting obligations and providing for mandatory communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the lack of indication of the facts that led to capital increases and 881 / XIV / 2. a ( Unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Creates the crime of concealment of wealth in order to prevent corruption and increase public integrity. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on this replacement text in the speciality. Let us begin with the vote on Article 18 (1). -A of Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, added by Article 4. the replacement text required by the PSD. [[Pause.]] Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u224	Mr. President, it is to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u225	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u226	Mr President, the vote script indicates that we first vote on the PSD request...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u227	It's like it's in the script!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u228	Let me just ask the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u229	It's written in the script!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u230	Mr President, the script of votes which has been distributed indicates that the amendments are being voted on first. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just put the question to the Bureau so that we can explain what we are voting on and then we will vote on it. Mr President, are we voting on the replacement text in full or just the proposal for an amendment to the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u231	It is the proposal to amend the PSD... [[Pause.]] Mr. João Oliveira asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u232	Mr President, what is written in the vote script is clear. We are voting Article 18 ( 1 ). o -A, added by Article 4. that of the replacement text. What the PSD asked for was a separate vote of two numbers of this article. So we are not voting on any amendments, we are voting on this part of the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u233	Mr President, I find this very interesting, because I explained it at the outset. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then vote on Article 18 ( 1 ) in the speciality. -A of Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, added by Article 4. that of the replacement text. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We are now also voting on the PSD's request, Article 18 ( ( c ) ( ii ). -A of Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July, added by Article 4. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD.]] We shall now vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at the Commission. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We shall proceed to the overall final vote of the same replacement text submitted by the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. Mrs. Monica Quintela asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u235	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u236	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 886 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Termination of the exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures in the context of the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as set out in Law No 9 / 2020 of 10 April. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against 4 PS Deputies (Bruno Aragão, Cláudia Santos, Isabel Alves Moreira and José Magalhães) and abstentions of BE, PAN, Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u237	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u238	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u239	Mr President, even with regard to the previous vote, I would like to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a written statement of vote on the replacement text of the Transparency Committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u240	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 1271 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government measures regulating the take-up of bivalves in the Tejo estuary and its marketing, 1366 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By valuing and dignifying seafood conditions in the Tejo estuary and 1408 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Catch of bivalves in the Tejo estuary. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL and abstentions from the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u241	We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1156 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By strengthening the public health structure and 1373 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Strengthening of public health in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We then voted in a global final vote on the final text presented by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1304 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Investment and requalification at the Setúbal Hospital Center and 1418 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Requalification of the Setúbal Hospital Center. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 478 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of a health center in Feijó, 485 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — By building health center in Feijó, Almada and 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of the health centre in Feijó, municipality of Almada, Setúbal district. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and 8 PS (Ana Isabel Santos, André Pinotes Batista, Clarice Campos, Eurídice Pereira, Fernando José, Ivan Gonçalves, Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and Sofia Araújo) and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1064 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Construction of a new health center in Quinta do Conde, in Sesimbra, 1134 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra, 1120 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, 1127 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Construction of a new health centre and basic emergency service in Quinta do Conde, 1212 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new health centre in Quinta do Conde, Sesimbra municipality, and 1231 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Construction of a new health centre in the parish of Quinta do Conde, in the municipality of Sesimbra. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We proceeded to the vote, in the overall final vote, on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 172 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Construction of Health Unit of the Upper Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, 215 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Construction of a new health unit in Upper Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro and the allocation of family doctor to all users, 277 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For a new health center in Upper Seixalinho, Barreiro, and 411 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new health centre in Upper Seixalinho, Barreiro. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u242	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u243	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u244	Mr President, I would like to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of the other Members elected by the Socialist Party in the Setúbal district, we will present a statement of vote on these four votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u245	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 547 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to re-qualify the flag 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins, 555 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins in the Local Health Care Unit for the installation of the health department of the child and the woman, 595 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government an absolute priority in the completion of the project to requalify the flag 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins da Guarda for maternity and health department of children and women, 609 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Requalification of the flag 5 of the Guard hospital and of the Amélia woman and 613 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the immediate reconstruction of pavilion 5 of Sousa Martins Hospital for the installation of the maternal-child clinical area ( Guarda ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We are now voting in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1406 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — For the urgent construction of the new building of the Basic Emergency Service of Castro Verde and 1415 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Construction of a new building for the installation of the basic emergency service of Castro Verde. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 1242 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat menstrual poverty, 1257 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that due diligence towards menstruation is not a form of discrimination, economic and environmental disadvantage and 1307 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Free distribution of menstrual health products. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u246	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u247	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u248	Mr President, I would just like to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies Miguel Costa Matos, Maria Begonha, Joana Sá Pereira, Joël Gomes, Olavo Camera, Sofia Andrade and Tiago Estêvão Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u249	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Elza Pais, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u250	Mr. President, I just wanted to say that we will present, on my behalf and a group of Members of my bench, Susana Amador, Cristina Mendes da Silva, Susana Correia, Romualda Fernandes, Joaquina Matos, Rosário Gambôa, Raquel Ferreira, Dora Brandão, Rita Madeira, Vera Braz and Ana Santos, a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u251	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Health Committee on draft resolutions Nos 213 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos, 269 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For the urgent construction of the new hospital in Lagos, 280 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the accelerated construction of the new hospital in Lagos and 414 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new hospital in Lagos with adequate planning of its future valences and integrated into the health care network. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, on the Proposal for a Law No 115 / XIV / 3. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support and expedite business restructuring and payment agreements and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1023 on preventive restructuring schemes, debt forgiveness and inhibitions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u252	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u253	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u254	Mr President, I would like to point out that, on this vote, we shall deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u255	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 71 / XIV / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — At the end of geographical blockade and discrimination in electronic sales for consumers in the Autonomous Regions. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, vote against IL and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP.]] We now generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft Law No 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Alter the regime of horizontal property, making the eighth amendment to the Civil Code, and the amendment to Decree-Law No 268 / 94 of 25 October with subsequent amendments. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD and PAN, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from BE, CDS-PP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] Then we shall vote on the text of the replacement of the Bill No 718 / XIV / 2 as part of the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing. a ( PSD ) — Alter the horizontal property regime, making the eighth amendment to the Civil Code and to the amendment to Decree-Law No 268 / 94 of 25 October with subsequent amendments. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now move on to the final vote of the replacement text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft Law No 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD and PAN, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from BE, CDS-PP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 714 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit quarterly reports to the Assembly of the Republic on the negotiation and implementation of the European funds allocated to Portugal under the Next Generation programme and the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and its implementation of the economic recovery plan Portugal 2020 - 2030 and 729 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures for the more effective and efficient use of EU funds, in particular within the framework of the Cohesion Policy, the Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy and the European Union Recovery Plan. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 746 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently provide for the development of the study of modernization and requalification of the West line in the section between Caldas da Rainha and Coimbra, 751 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary steps to modernise and re-qualify the West line in the section between Caldas da Rainha and Coimbra-Figueira da Foz, 803 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By a fully re-qualified and functional West line, 823 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — By urgent and comprehensive modernisation of the West line, 1327 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Enhance the modernization and electrification of the West line and 1339 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends investment and modernisation in the West line. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if we can join the next votes on the same replacement text. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, then we shall, in general, vote on the text of substitution, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, on draft resolutions Nos 1461/ XIV/3. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of climate diplomacy, promote the necessary endeavours for the United Nations to recognize the stable climate as a common heritage of mankind, 1477 / XIV / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government recognize the stable climate as a common heritage of mankind, 1482/ XIV/ 3. a ( BE) — By recognizing the stable climate as a common heritage of humanity and 1498 / XIV/ 3. a ( PSD ) — To recognize the stable climate as a common heritage of mankind. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and IL abstentions.]] We are now voting in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 754 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Classification of Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 772 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the classification of Carnaxide greenhouse as a protected landscape, 782 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Visa the classification of Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 802 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government classify the Carnaxide saw as a protected landscape, 1169 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote the safeguarding and exploitation of Carnaxide greenhouse, 1196 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government protect the Carnaxide greenhouse and 1246 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By preserving the Carnaxide greenhouse and its enjoyment by the populations. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolution No 1201 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government undertake epidemiological and environmental studies to determine the impact of Alves Ribeiro de Loures production. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 1299 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By preserving the natural, historical and cultural heritage of the Petrogal neighborhood in Loures and 1369 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government preserve the natural heritage of the Petrogal neighborhood. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] We shall vote on the assumption, by the plenary, of the indexary votes held in the speciality, within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, of the final text relating to the Bill No 548 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Harmonizes the electoral law for the European Parliament with the provisions in force in the Portuguese legal order on the loss of mandate of holders of elective positions. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We shall proceed to the next vote, which will be electronic. I ask the services to prepare this same vote. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 548 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, the Journals Nos 77 to 80 on the 2nd plenary meetings are hereby approved. the Legislative Session of this Parliament, held on 16, 17, 18 and 23 June 2021. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for them. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We continue with the oral statements announced in the meantime. I have already asked Vice-President Fernando Negrão to replace me, because I have a meeting now with Infarmed. Please, Mr. Vice-President. I am very grateful for your prestigious cooperation. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Fernando Negrão was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us reorganise ourselves for the oral explanations of vote. Both Mr António Filipe and Mr José Manuel Pureza will make their statements on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Bill No 111 / XIV / 2. a and the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 90 / XIV / 2. I begin by giving the floor to Mr António Filipe. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group voted against the replacement text submitted by the PS Parliamentary Group on the proposal for a government law on video surveillance in a comprehensive final vote. This bill, presented in media terms as limited to the issue of the use of portable cameras of individual use by security forces, goes far beyond this issue and aims to legitimize almost unrestricted and indiscriminate use of video surveillance for multiple purposes and through a multiplicity of forms by law. Despite an opinion by the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) which makes an extremely severe judgment on the proposed law, from the point of view of safeguarding the fundamental rights of citizens, and which upholds the significant unconstitutionality of its provisions, the Socialist Party, with the support of the PSD and the CDS, ultimately force the adoption of a text, so-called replacement, which essentially maintains the characteristics of the initial proposal of the Government. The approved text aims to legitimize the use of video surveillance for disproportionate immensity of purposes usable by multiple entities without providing for sufficient safeguard measures regarding their misuse and, even with regard to the use of portable cameras for individual use by security forces, formulations are adopted in such a misleading way that the problems created will be more than those allegedly resolved. As regards the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 90 / XIV / 2. a, concerning the implementation of measures envisaged in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, the CFP Parliamentary Group voted in favour of this text, in a comprehensive final vote. The CFP does not ignore the fact that the discussion in the field of extensive, complex and structural matters in the legal-criminal order has taken such a summary in the last days of the legislature. It would have been desirable for a longer time of discussion and weighting of solutions, as was expected if the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic had not been precipitated. The risk of the Assembly of the Republic is criticized for adopting solutions that could have been better weighed is real. However, given the circumstances, it would be even worse and more critical if the Assembly of the Republic were to allow legislative initiatives to combat corruption to lapse, abstaining from legislation on such a socially relevant subject. The CFP rightly notes some progress as a result of the approved text, in particular with regard to the improvement of the criminal regime applicable to legal persons and the criminal procedure applicable to so-called mega-processes, with a view to avoiding prescriptions and limiting the margin of impunity that could arise from the use of dilatory files permitted by law. There are, however, two concrete points for which the CFP, in the specialty, has intended to demarcate. The first concerns the extension of the so-called premium right. The modification of the regime according to which the attenuation or exemption of the penalty as a premium for collaboration with the justice system ceases to be a possibility to be assessed by the judge, depending on the circumstances of each case, to become a legal imposition verified certain circumstances is a legislative development that causes the Portuguese legal order to go further and further away from the application of the principle of legality which should guide the rule of law, to be increasingly based on criteria of opportunity, offering margins of impunity in the name of collaboration with the application of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u258	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u259	The second concerns serious constitutional doubts as to the extension of the application of the ancillary penalty of the deprivation of political rights by automatic effect of the conviction for crimes of responsibility of political and other public officials. The Constitution shall determine in Article 30 ( 4 ). o that no penalty involves as a necessary effect the loss of any civil, professional or political rights. It is not ignored that there are already several legal provisions which imply the loss of such rights as an effect of conviction for liability crimes. The CFP does not dispute that there is a ban on the exercise of certain professions or the temporary impediment to the submission of applications to certain political positions or public positions as a result of the conviction for certain crimes which have any relation to those positions or functions. What raises the greatest doubts as to its constitutionality is a solution such as that which was adopted in which the incumbent of charge who is convicted of any crime punishable by imprisonment for more than three years, even if dismissed, is prohibited from the exercise of any post—it is underlined, of any post— even if it does not have any relation or proximity to the type of crime committed. This ostracism situation appears disproportionate in view of the constitutionally protected interest and appears to be in violation of articles 18. o No 2, and 30. the, paragraph 4, of the Constitution. The best way to avoid the application of a sanction is precisely to adopt a solution that is unconstitutional. PSD and CDS have already done so several times about a supposed intention to criminalize illicit enrichment. It would be bad that in the application of sanctions, it would be wrong to condemn crimes of corruption if it were on the same path. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u260	Mr José Manuel Pureza of BE now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislation will be marked by the steps taken to deepen the legislative mechanisms to combat corruption. That's important! Today, steps have been taken here that we consider relevant for this purpose and I would like to point out, in particular, the adoption of proposals, including that of the Left Block, which are aimed at criminalizing unjustified enrichment. The Proposal for Law No 90 / XIV / 2. the, on the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, has positive aspects and is, as a whole, an instrument that we evaluate positively. We also highlight the issue of combating a concentration of processes, which ultimately determines some lack of transparency on the part of justice in this matter. So we voted in favour and we are satisfied and calm with that vote. However, already in the debate of the specialty, the Left Block has decided to highlight and vote negatively on certain rules, namely those relating to the figure of the awarded infringement. I know that in the debate on this matter it is said that this is not about award-winning delation, but in fact what is happening is too much and unjustifiable extension of the premium law already present in our Code of Criminal Procedure. In fact, this is a totally unjustified reinforcement, which brings to justice the negotiation of sentences and the institutionalization of delation when, from our point of view, this will be a serious degradation of justice and therefore we voted against these rules. Very quickly, I would now like to join our vote statement on video surveillance legislation, which we consider to be a serious legislation for the rule of law, which has been approved by the PS, the PSD and the CSD. Under the pretext of regulating the use of video surveillance, the truth is that video surveillance is installed as a generalized practice and, in good rigour, indiscriminate. Specifically regarding the so-called bodycams, there is a assumption that it is a belief in the magical value, objective, of what is filmed, and not so. It was very illustrative what was discussed in the Commission, in the specialty work, in which it was found that it was unable to define criteria on what is filmed, the moment it is filmed, if it should be filmed in permanence, if it should only be filmed in advance warning. All this shows that this is a law that is condemned to be involved in a cloak of discretion that we cannot accept. This was declared, either in relation to this figure, or in relation to the other figures of video surveillance, by the National Data Protection Commission, whose opinion is truly overwhelming, which, I believe, should have been sufficient to prevent legislating work which was precipitated and, from our point of view, negative. So we voted against it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u262	Also on the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 90 / XIV / 2. a and the Bills Nos 875 and 876 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) has the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the PAN, also for an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today Parliament has taken important steps in the fight against corruption with the adoption of a package of measures implementing the National Strategy for Combating Corruption, which contains measures as relevant as the amendment of the rules relating to the deadlines for prescription and the accountability of legal persons in the context of corruption crimes, a particularly important measure in a context such as the one we live in, in which we will receive significant European funds. But the most important step we are taking today — and let us not forget that it did not include the initiative put forward by the Government in its proposal for a strategy to combat corruption, since there were initially reservations on the part of the Socialist Party and on the part of the Social Democratic Party — is that of criminalizing unjustified enrichment, which arises on the proposal of the NAP, on the proposal of the Trade Union Association of Portuguese Judges ( ASJP) and of several other parties. Without calling into question the Constitution, which was adopted today here was the obligation of political officials to declare, when they come out of office, and until three years later, for example, the promises of advantage and the facts generating relevant capital changes, as well as the criminal consequence of failure to comply with the rules applicable to the receipt of offers and hospitality. In the Transparency Committee, we have been able to ensure that there are consequences for the concealment of income and that this happens regardless of any notification by the supervisory authority. Demanding the notification was a « alçapão », since we are talking about concealment of income after the end of the term of office, which made it difficult to control or know of such incomes. This law thus brings more ethics and transparency to the exercise of political office, prevents cases such as those that have occurred in recent years and help undermine people's confidence in politics. It will, of course, be necessary for the supervisory authorities to ensure compliance with what is approved here and for the Government to ensure the allocation of the necessary resources for that purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u264	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Monica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with great satisfaction that the PSD Parliamentary Group sees that much of its proposals in the package against corruption have been approved. It is gratifying to see that measures which, for us, were red lines have been abandoned, such as the negotiation of penalties and the award-winning delation. We do not understand that, and also responding to what Mr. José Manuel Pureza said, the strengthening of the premium right, which has been included in this package, endorses any entry for the awarded infringement. This is not going to happen, what is going to happen, and that is what it is intended to do, is that, in a phase where proof is difficult, and that there is no use of evidence, by means of indicative methods, the agent collaborates in the discovery of the crime, for his own discovery, and not for the fault or capture of the others, as currently provided for by law. Therefore, from our point of view, we even have a strengthening of the fight against prized delation, in relation to what exists today, so that there is compensation. This is already provided for in the law, only with a perversion of the regime, which is that of the judge to be able to waive penalty or attenuate the penalty in particular. We understand that at a stage prior to the trial, and if this actually happens, it may be possible for the agent to be waived by certain requirements. I also want here to highlight the progress made in combating mega-processes. It would have been possible to go further in this area, but in the rules, in connection with the connection and separation of proceedings, in the process of handling the structure of the trial itself, the concern of the PSD was to provide the substantive right of muscular measures to combat corruption and, at the same time — and this, for us, was very important — to provide the adjective right, the procedural law, a reinforcement of the protection of defendants, such as, for example, with the introduction of the rule of collegiality of three judges, because now only two, with regard to trials in higher courts, when the trial is not tried in court, but, yes, in conference. With regard to ancillary penalties, we do not understand that there is any unconstitutionality here, because there is already today, and there is also about employees. The improvement of the concept of « civil servant », which already exists today is expressly provided for in the Constitution — Article 117. the Constitution, paragraph 3, is an enabling standard, and is also reflected in Articles 246. is 346. the Criminal Code. More: these rules concerning accessory punishment are not of automatic operation, which means that the court will always make a valuable judgment, it will always value a weighting to know whether the person who was convicted, and it is always someone who has been condemned, because material truth has been proven, because the facts or inter-processual truth have been proved, fulfils the requirements that, at the same time, an accessory penalty will also be applied to him, in the same way as what already exists for employees today. To also point out, as Mrs Bebiana Cunha said, how good it was to achieve an increase in the deadlines for prescription...
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u266	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the intervention time.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u267	Yes, Mr. President. Once again, and I end up as I began, I just wanted to welcome, with satisfaction, that this package, which is a strike package, which is structural to the entire legal system, has been approved here unanimously. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u268	You have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mrs Cláudia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wishes to stress the historic importance of unanimous approval of the so-called 'anti-corruption package'. And it is of the most fundamental justice that at this time it is also evident that at its origin was the extensive study, presented by a working group coordinated by Prof. Maria João Antunes, who was later corporated into government bills. We also want to stress that, with the approval of this 'anti-corruption package', today, we can say without hesitation that the government has fulfilled the promises it has made to the Portuguese in combating corruption. We intend to show that unanimous approval is not contempt in this case, because we are not faced with news of mere things. In fact, I do not remember having approved such an extensive anti-corruption package before. Just a few examples. A new penalty of ineligibility for politicians convicted of crimes of corruption, and it is not an automatic effect of punishment, it is a true penalty of ineligibility, identical, indeed, to others who, since the 1990s and last millenniums, are already provided for in our Criminal Code, with the difference that it applies to holders of political positions condemned for serious crimes, practised in the exercise of their political functions. We intend to show that we are faced with new and more demanding solutions of premium law, which never go through the award-winning delation. We intend to show that we are faced with several changes in our criminal procedural law, oriented towards the guarantee of greater speed. We are faced with very significant changes in our Code of Commercial Societies, because we well know that there is no corruption without corrupters and we know that dissuasive sanctions are also necessary for administrators and managers of the public. These are deeply innovative solutions in the prevention of corruption, through regulatory compliance or compliance programmes. These are just examples of what we have unanimously approved today and which we believe will ennoble this Parliament at the end of this XIV legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u270	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us finish this moment by voting statements. I now give the floor to Ms. Secretary Sofia Araújo to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u271	Mr. President, I inform the House that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Bill No. 1023 / XIV / 3. a ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission and draft resolution No 1523 / XIV/ 3. a ( PAR). I would also like to inform you that Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP and Mr Pedro Morais Soares of the CDS-PP were present at the plenary meeting via videoconferencing because they were in prophylactic isolation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2021-11-19.u272	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. To conclude, I will proceed to the reading of the agenda of the plenary meeting next Wednesday, 24, at 3 p.m., and the fixing of the agenda is made by the ENP, for the evaluation of the Bill No. 1022 / XIV / 3. a (PV) — sets free of charge for the use of public transport for disabled persons, unemployed persons, persons aged 18 or under and students of compulsory education. The possible vote will take place. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of good work and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 16 minutes.]]
